ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. the agenda for today's sitting is the general discussion of the Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. at the end of the debate, the vote on this bill may take place. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecologist Party today presents to Parliament a bill that determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. This bill includes in the various responses proposed by the Greens to reduce the amount of plastic production and reduce waste, which must be a priority within the policy defined for waste, and which is also important in defining environmental policies that promote the most diverse forms of pollution prevention. These responses that The Greens have proposed are known and have already passed through the presentation of bills aimed at intervening on the regulation of the availability to the consumer of unnecessary, superfluous and oversized packaging, on the prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils, in plastic—such as cutters, dishes or cups—and on the disincentive to the use of microplastics in current-use products, such as cosmetics and hygiene products. The truth is that plastic adds a set of features, such as malalyability, lightness, resistance and durability, in addition to the reduced cost of production, which make this material useful to a non-number of applications, which led to the mass production of synthetic plastics, based on oil, occurring from the second half of the 20th century. The most intensive use of plastic is in packaging, corresponding to about 40 % of its use, following its application in household and consumer goods and in buildings and buildings. On a smaller scale, but still with expression, the use is followed in car components and electrical and electronic equipment. The reverse of the medal, however, is that plastic is a very significant source of pollution that is contaminating ecosystems in a brutal way, insofar as they are being released to the natural environment millions of tons of the compound, which delay in degradation, and can in most cases remain for decades, or even centuries, invading the natural environment with persistent materials and causing large imbalances. Our seas, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they're stuck in plastic. There are studies that estimate that 85% of ocean pollution comes from the presence of plastic. In fact, reports of marine animals found dead with a high mass of plastic in the stomach have already become recurrent, which means that they consume plastic waste and, in this way, through the food chain, contamination and toxicity are much more widespread. The function of marine animals is, however, not to clean up the seas that the human being pollutes, and they would not even gain capacity for this effect, because it is already estimated that, by the middle of this century, if nothing is done in the opposite direction, in the oceans find-CL more plastic than fish. It is a scary estimate, which must alarm us and which requires us a responsible attitude, which takes effective measures to reduce plastic waste. In good rigour, the effects of overuse of plastic in the medium and long term have been largely ignored over the decades. in this sense, it is necessary to act on the one that can already be considered a plague of the present times and promote the elimination of the use of plastic where it effectively does not need any. It is precisely for this purpose that the Greens present the bill that we bring the discussion today. The Greens submit this bill with a conviction that it is important to make clear: it is not possible to change a model of production and consumption without the market being called upon to make a significant contribution to this effect. It is not possible to leave everything in the hands of consumers and it is not fair to penalise consumers when, above all, they do not make more sustainable options often because they simply have no way of making other options. The supply on the market, what we find in sales banks or shelves on commercial surfaces is a determining pillar so that more sustainable choices can be generated. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to be aware that commercial establishments are impinging — perhaps the most explicit way of saying — plastic to consumers in an unmeasured way. In the absence of alternatives, consumers are often obliged to bring with them a significant set of plastics, of which they do not need and which they will not even reuse for any other purpose. This is the case, for example, with the grouping or packaging of fruits and vegetables on a spherovite basis, coated after the conventional plastic adhesive film. These packagings have the mere function of grouping food products and are not at least essential to the preservation of the quality of the products, which are, moreover, often sold to bulk in the exhibitor or in the bank next to the shelf where they are found. However, for bulk sale of fruits and vegetables, ultra-light plastic bags are mainly available as primary packaging for the packaging and transport of the food product. In other words, the consumer, in one form or another, always brings a plastic bag or package that normally throws out as soon as he gets home. These are examples of the use of plastics to a loud dimension, of which one can perfectly disregard, in a logic of sustainability. Finding alternatives for the packaging and transport of certain food products at the places of sale, which do not deal with changing the quality of these products, is the challenge that is put forward. The Greens therefore propose that commercial establishments be prevented from providing ultra-levous plastic bags for primary packaging or transport of bread, fruit and vegetables and from selling fruit and vegetables packaged in disposable buckets containing plastic or spherovite. thus, distributors must provide the consumer with alternative primary packaging or bags, for bread, fruits and vegetables sold in bulk at the points of sale, consisting of other more sustainable materials. At the same time, the Greens propose that commercial establishments may also adapt to the fact that consumers can take their own reusable bags to pack the fruits and vegetables sold in bulk or the bread they buy. According to the bill we present here, we set the deadline of about a year for this transition, the replacement of these packages and ultralevous plastic bags by other more sustainable solutions, if implemented. With the approval of this Greens proposal, conditions are created for taking a very significant step towards reducing the use of plastic, finding more sustainable alternative solutions and consequently ensuring greater preservation of ecosystems, the general environment and health. The challenge that the Greens today put to the Assembly of the Republic is that we do not accept passivity in the face of a problem that needs quick and effective solutions and that we are, before, proactive, bold and pioneer, adopting measures that generate a progressive reduction in packaging waste and plastic in particular. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u3	Mrs Deputy, three Members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u4	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u5	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, for us Socialists, environmental sustainability is, and will always be, a priority, but we always have to combine with economic sustainability when we take action, such as this, which has a great impact on people's lives. from our point of view, we have no doubt that the number of packages is excessive and, in most cases, unnecessary, because it is double and triple packaging. If we understand that, in such matters as this, individual awareness is of the greatest importance, we have no doubt that we will have to find more effective instruments in political action, such as: the responsibility of producers and distributors; an efficient re-use strategy; the existence of financial instruments, particularly at the waste rate; and information and awareness-raising actions. In addition, these instruments are advocated by the current government as well-defined goals to always achieve integrated actions and not by mere inconsequential momentary impulses. We cannot bet on the economy of the sea and allow for its constant pollution—and plastics are the ones that most pollute; we cannot bet on agriculture and allow soil contamination; we cannot bet on our water resources and allow the trees and watercourses to be invaded by contaminated products; we cannot bet on tourism and allow the cities and beaches to present themselves dirty, affected by scattered waste and spread in public space. On the other hand, plastic packaging cannot be mere means of advertising, as they are today. So we need to find alternatives to plastic in packaging. But the question I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, is clear: what is the alternative that the Greens have for this kind of packaging? What products can serve as an alternative to these packagings? I also ask you if you are available to change the deadlines for the entry into force of this legislation, because we believe that the deadlines are too short, particularly that of 2020, which is already eight months ago. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u7	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is making signals to the Bureau. Madam Member, the gesture language is not my strong language, so you will do your best to explain what you are trying to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u8	Mr President, I have said that I would respond to requests for clarification together, but, if possible, I would like to choose to answer one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u9	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. You now have the floor to reply to Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u10	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, in terms of principles, we all generally agree. The problem is often when we reach concrete solutions. In good rigour, what we have witnessed, with regard to the choices made by the Socialist Party, has normally been the penalisation of the consumer. That is, when more responsible attitudes are desired, from an environmental point of view, the Socialist Party normally, like the PSD, opts to penalize the consumer. What I have tried to say in my speech is that you have to become aware once and for all that is not the consumer who has to bear all responsibility, because often consumers have no choice. They have no option of making choices for more responsible attitudes. And if the market is not called upon, too, to respond, with what is made available to the consumer, then we will never reach the levels of sustainability that we want. in this sense, Mr, I would like to answer specifically the questions you have asked me. When we presented the project on the issue of disposable dishes, to synthesize, it was also a question that asked us: "But what material do the Greens think should be used? » It is not up to me to say what is the alternative. You have already noticed that, when the alternative is required, the alternative appears in a more sustainable way, because that is why it has to be perfectly clear. And you know that on the market, including, there is already an alternative, particularly on large surfaces, but also in neighborhood bakeries, to condition the bread that we bought. But there are others who still use the ultra-light plastic bag. Therefore, alternatives are not missing. Moreover, the Greens consider that they also bring an innovative proposal here, which is the possibility for consumers themselves to grab in their own, reusable bags of the material they understand, and to move to the commercial surfaces and to be able to condition in their own packaging or in their own bags the products they will buy. So, honourable Member, alternatives are not missing, but we are going to move the market and we are going to put the market to respond. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ): Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u11	I will finish, Mr. President. As regards the deadline, of course, Mr Deputy, that all the projects brought by the Greens to debate in the Assembly of the Republic are not closed projects. We are, of course, available to change, debate and correct what we believe can be improved. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ) : Mr. José Carlos Barros of the PSD has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Heloísa Apolónia and I greet The Greens for the initiative we are discussing today and would begin by pointing out the obstacles and prejudices that had to be faced not long ago in the previous Parliament, when the former government, led by the PSD, dared to reform in the field of green growth, including, in particular, what brings us today's debate, the fight against the use of plastic. at that time, the PS classified it as an environmentally inefficient reform, the Communist Party warned about a reform where it was even proposed that citizens be forced to pay for the plastic bags they bought and the Greens were insurgent against the logic of penalty. Interestingly, they are now presenting a proposal that, more than penalising, is based solely on the understanding of the simple and pure prohibition. On the other hand, at that time, the Greens were also very concerned about what they referred to as the "orange rate", although they were curiously converted to the "red colour" rate of this government and to the environmental argument to justify the values of the additional ISP (charge on petroleum products) and the social injustice it represents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u13	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, at a time when the Greens present this bill and when the honourable Member says that this is more a contribution to the path than the Greens have been doing to reduce the use of plastic, it would not be wrong, I think, Mrs Deputy, to recognise the success of the measures taken at this level in the previous Parliament, with the former Minister Moreira da Silva, measures to which at that time the left benches were opposed when in a year the consumption of light plastics fell 98 % — I repeat, 98 %! — by making plastic bags practically disappear from supermarkets. It would be all right now to recognize you, Mrs Commissioner, as the current Minister for the Environment has already acknowledged, as for example, Quercus acknowledged and praised, stressing that the action taken by the former Minister for the Environment was — I will quote the word used by Quercus — a'success'. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ) : I would like to conclude, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u14	I will finish, Mr. President. With several reservations that we will identify during this debate, we follow this Greens proposal in what is essential — the objective of continuing to reduce the use of plastic. But I ask you, Mr Member, if you consider that the understanding of the prohibition is the most appropriate, putting aside any system of incentives for good environmental practice, not considering compensation mechanisms for these good practices, not considering transitional mechanisms, adopting in an abrupt manner a pure and simple prohibition regime from 1 June 2020. That is the question I put to you, Mrs Deputies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by reaffirming the idea that this is a starting point for the discussion, for the construction of a solution and that we are perfectly available to adjust, for example, a transitional regime like what you have now referred to. We are not opposed to the possibility of this happening and to reflect on the issue of the deadline, we are open to this. This is a proposal that we make in the context of the initial proposal we have tabled, but we are available to discuss this matter which you have now raised here. But let me now return the challenge to you, Mr President, by telling you that it would not be wrong for the PSD to recognize what has happened with regard to the rate of light plastic bags. It is true that, Mr President, the then Minister for the Environment of the PSD/CDS Government said to the Assembly of the Republic that, already with the prospect of reducing the use of light plastic bags by application of the fee, the State still expected to collect about 40 million euros. What really happened? People don't pay a fee to the state for using light plastic bags. Why? Because they suddenly disappeared from the market. In good rigour, that is what happened, Mr. The large surfaces traded these light plastic bags with more resistant plastic bags, therefore, not light, which are not taxed, and went on to sell them to the consumer at the price of the fee the State charges to light bags, deceiving the consumer, who thinks he is paying a fee to the State and who is, after all, paying a price to the commercial area. Now, reflecting on what the Minister of the Environment said at the time, with the prospect of decreasing the use of light plastic bags, it seems that the transition of EUR 40 million has shifted earlier to the large commercial surfaces, which sell these bulkiest bags. So, what's going on? A business has opened up for the large commercial areas, which are not crazy about the business and which have found a good opportunity here. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u17	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! We consider that, when it is to prevent, it is to prevent them from being on the market! It's not worth asking the consumer for a fee. Simply ask the market to let you make it available, because it was actually what they did with the light plastic bags: they left them available and they disappeared. So that is the contribution we are asking for to the market, but without having to pay them any kind of price for anything else. We have quite innovative solutions in our bill, which I hope will serve for a reflection and that, in the field of specialty, we can discuss them, listening to a number of entities that can also make contributions on this matter. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ) : Mr. Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u18	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome the Greens for bringing this issue to debate. In fact, I believe that it is consensual for all benches to the dangers of plastics and the imperative need to reduce the use of plastics. The way in which we achieve this is that it can eventually diverge. The CDS agrees with these objectives, either with the finding that this is a problem or with the principle that we have to reduce the use of plastics. For this reason, we have also tabled proposals, such as recently, to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetic products, as we have also made contributions within the packaging storage system. However, Mrs Deputy, the Greens initiative not only provides for the obligation to make available an alternative to ultra-light plastics but also a ban on the use of such plastics as from June 2020. Mrs Deputy, there was a working group, proposed by the Government, which involved all the partners of the sector involved in this area and there is also a European strategy for plastics which defines less ambitious deadlines than those proposed here by the Greens. The report of the working group itself, which is December 2018, and which deserved the widespread agreement of all partners, proposed in particular on ultra-leval plastics, the 2023 target, not for its elimination but for its replacement by necessarily biodegradable or compostable products. That was the period which was considered sufficient by the partners, either by industry or by all stakeholders in the sector. I quote to the report: « Conclusion: that the very light bags placed on the market are necessarily biodegradable or compostable from 2023 onwards, considering that the proposed timetable allows, on the one hand, the re-adaptation of the market and production chains, which may have an impact on the economy and also the development of the biodegradability standard until proposed by the European Union ». The question I put to you is therefore very specific, Mrs Deputy: why do the Greens come to propose the anticipation of this goal in three years and why do they not provide for the alternative of biodegradability or composting and propose the elimination of the ultra-levous bags? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u19	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, answering your question directly, I would like to say that the date proposed by the Greens for the implementation of the regime we propose in this bill was due to what the Greens consider to be an emergency. Therefore, because it is so urgent, we believe that the market should be called upon to give an urgent response. But, Madam Deputies, I reaffirm here, as I have already said, that we are available to review the issue of the specialization date and transitional arrangements, with the contribution of all parliamentary groups, but not leaving out this prospect of urgency to take action. The honourable Member may ask: "But why do we not expect the European strategy? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs Deputy, there are other countries in the European Union that have not yet waited for European strategies to adopt more sustainable measures in their territories, particularly in relation to plastic, such as in France and in other countries. Therefore, nothing prevents us from being at the forefront, from being pioneers in terms of modernization, progress in terms of environmental sustainability for our commercial areas and so that our consumers can in fact have the right to choose and make more sustainable choices. I would also like to correct or at least clarify what he said: The Greens do not simply prohibit the ultra-light bags. What they do is they ask the market to find other primary packagings, therefore, other bags made of other more sustainable materials, and that alternatively it also adapts to the possibility of the consumer being able to carry his own packaging and his own bags to pack food.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u21	The next item is Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed very important to discuss this matter, and I would therefore like to congratulate the Greens on this marking, which makes us deal with the question of fruit, vegetables and bread packed in plastic bags and buckets to return to — and well — for selling bulk. No one already thinks it absurd to discuss in Parliament straws, cottons or breadbags. And good. however, this discussion also includes all the work that we have been developing in this House to eradicate the use of plastics. I begin by referring to the proposal, which we have tabled for more than one year, which prohibits the marketing of disposable plastic dining utensils and provides for the transition to new materials and practices, which are still in the Committee on the Environment. After that, the European Commission came to set dates for the implementation of such measures and also after that, the Government approached these two positions and announced the prohibition of such plastics next year. This is an important step, and it is to applaud that they have approached what we have long said, what science has been identifying for decades and what popular mobilization calls for. Subsequently, the Left Block proposed banning the import and marketing of hygiene and cosmetic products containing microplastics. The proposal was dubbed and only obtained the favourable votes of both the NAP and the Greens. However, microplastics continue to pollute the country and the world and other approved projects call for decrease, but do not respond to the already detected urgency. at this moment, they are already microplastics at 3000 meters altitude, reaching what many of us do not reach: the Alps. They form islands and cover beaches and are in the food chain. We then challenged the production chain and presented a measure that stimulated reuse. This material, plastic, is used in a brutal excess, stimulated by packaging companies, by marketing and design, which promote a consumer society and prefer packaging and advertising to combat pollution. In fact, in hearings that we had here about recycling and reuse, we fully perceive the resistance to change by producers and carriers, i.e. the market itself. The recoverable tara, proposed by the Left Block, was plummeted and criticized. It has been implemented, however, a model-pilot of recycling, which we support and which is another small step forward, but which is clearly insufficient. It is known that, in order to reduce waste, we need to go further. Public policies are needed to force reuse. And we gave that answer to go further, but we didn't. And we haven't been because most of us still don't follow the urgency of not producing so many materials and of stopping with the exploitation of nature and landscape, which gives us the resources that turn this market action into garbage on landfills or on recycling targets. And, yes, we have to turn these recycling targets into targets for reducing waste production. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And let us not wait, therefore, only for consumers. The search is fed by needs that are created. This is one of the main reasons for industrialization, after production, marketing and design: the creation of needs, desires and products. And we cannot leave this production, this creation of desires in free wheels, as we cannot let the seabed and the mountains be excavated and the populations expropriated from the environment, health and its territories. This is also what several students asked for, when they recently made a strike on March 15, and they will ask again in May this year. They know what they did and do. They know why they strike and why they use that word. They also know well why they missed classes to defend the planet and ask for common and collective solutions. They know that, even though they do not use ultra-light plastic—but, yes, a bag of cloth, when they buy fruit or bread— that change will only be effective when everyone does so, because public policies so require. They also know that public, collective and free mobility is the guarantee of a drastic reduction in emissions. And they know that we should keep fossil fuels on the ground and that we should not promote lithium exploitation, because the answer is once again the railway and a public network of quality transport. They know that they want to be there in fact, because the logic we use to live has to favour the environment and people and they have to make a transition, a climate transition, which needs public investment and which will also create new jobs. Yes, in fact, this transition will create jobs, climate jobs that will revert — we hope that in time — the responsibility of political and productive decisions, for example, in coastal erosion, in furdouro, Esmoriz or Cortegaça, or even in the disappearance of miles of straws that existed there at the beginning of the last century, taken, see there! , by rising sea level. Or that they will still revert the responsibility we have in the dry, Alentejo and Trás-os-Montes, or in the fires of Pedrogan, or in hurricanes in Figueira da Foz and Leiria, or in recent floods in Mozambique. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The UN, in its sixth report, launched this month entitled Perspectives for the World Environment, makes the following warning: « The damage to the planet is so serious that people’s health will become more and more threatened unless urgent action is taken» and identifies human activity as the cause of this damage. In fact, it is not a secret that we live drowned in plastics and also that there are various types of plastics and various forms of combat — some, of course, are more effective than others. And that is what makes the task we have here difficult. Despite the consensus on this fight, we do not all agree with the ways and urgency of doing so. As you may know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these problems of climate, climate change and the environment, everything is interconnected. And I want to keep talking also about the origin of plastics: fossil fuels, which continue to be the basis of today's economy and which also give rise to plastics. These plastics are filled with whales that give to the coast, torture turtles, contaminating fish and forming continents/isles in the oceans. So we also say that we do not need to discover more oil deposits. This is where we see the difference between the various political forces. In fact, the courage of the opposition to fossil fuel exploration and exploitation — oil, coal or gas — does not remain in the 'centre' or in productivity. And that is where we propose the adoption of a new paradigm: that we leave the resources on the ground, that we move forward in ecological recovery and in the guarantee of well-being, health, water, fertile soils, ecology and prevention! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to take up today's proposal. If the consumer was educated to consume disposable, he was led to integrate and normalize a consumer society, leaving practices such as recoverable tar or bulk purchase — which have already been used, I have already used, I still remember, and I can use again now— which were discouraged by productive technology, and if this is a great responsibility for productivity and public policies of the last half century and the beginning of this, it must be assumed. We cannot, in fact, change this system and maintain the climate if most of this House is not yet responsible for the main promoters of these individualist and disposable changes and if it is not yet responsible for itself. It is in this simple policy today, proposed here by the Greens, and which we are accompanying, that we will reverse this threat a little bit. In fact, removing plastics from supermarkets and grocery stores is not any pope in the economy. But we also have to do a lot more than that. The alerts are there. He just doesn't see them who doesn't want to see them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u23	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola's speech prompted a request for clarification from Mr António Lima Costa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing today, in sum, the application in our country, from the middle of next year, of two very concrete measures: on the one hand, the prohibition of the availability by traders of primary plastic packaging ultra-light to bread, fruit and vegetables, accompanied simultaneously by the obligation to make alternative packaging available; and on the other hand, the prohibition on the sale of fruit and vegetables in bowls containing plastic or polystyrene. Now, in the analysis of this bill, we must exercise care to assess the positive effects, of course, but also of the negative effects, and of the general balance we will conclude of his goodness. in an environmental protection perspective, positive aspects are obvious and excuse me from repeating. But the PSD wants to look at this project by introducing a new element, still not mentioned here, which is that of the perspective of bread, fruit and vegetables producers. Primary plastic packaging is prohibited and alternatives are required for bread, fruit and vegetables, which will be more expensive. It is prohibited to sell in plastic or polystyrene cubes, requiring agricultural producers in general, and in particular those of small fruits, such as blueberry, raspberry, blackberry and strawberry, hard-selling products in bulk, their replacement with biodegradable materials, but which will be more expensive. Who pays for this cost increase? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] They will, as already said by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who pays the market, pay consumers, pay distribution companies. But let us not be naive, this increase in costs will be pushed and paid by the weakest link in the value chain, in this case farmers, and that is not acceptable. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] On the other hand, we believe that this type of measures should be of gradual and non- radical application: at an appropriate pace to the technical and financial possibilities of agricultural producers, who have made costly investments in packaging equipment; at a pace that does not question the hygiene and food safety of bread, fruit and vegetables, that such alternative packagings may not guarantee; at a pace that does not set a barrier to the great innovation capacity of our fruit and vegetables sector, which in 2018 exported EUR 1500 million. In conclusion, we say to this project: "Yes, but...". 'Yes', for the positive aspects already discussed and 'but', because we understand that the interests of our fruit and vegetables producers have not been properly guarded. And this 'but' leads me to ask the honourable Member and the authors of the initiative about the availability to ensure that our farmers do not pay the bill for these measures. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u25	In reply, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u26	Mr President, Mr António Lima Costa, I assume that I am not asking myself but the authors of the initiative. however, I can give you a response to the payment of these measures. In fact, these measures will change our way of life in society and can make a difference as to who pays for natural disasters. We are now finding that our policy options, in particular the PSD's options to not give this incentive to the planet to ensure a sustainable planet and the fact that this is not considered for the benefit of companies to be the profit of companies to pay for natural disasters — fires, droughts, finally, the natural scourges we have in the world at present — that has been the problem of farmers, as you say. For example, intensive agriculture has been a problem for traditional farmers by stealing plenty of water in the Alentejo, as well as in the rest of the country. These short PSD views kill the planet. And it is not a measure, too short, such as the ban on plastics in supermarkets, which will be the pet of the economy, Mr. The bill that the PSD spends here this afternoon on the planet is very heavy. And we say that has to change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u27	The next intervention is for Mr André Silva of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this important issue to debate, for joining the NAP in the fight against the reduction of the production and use of plastics, especially those for single use. We are aware that single-use plastics are everywhere and have become, in recent decades, an unprecedented environmental problem. Half of the plastic produced is used only once, and most of it will stop at sea or at a landfill. That is why the NAP considers it urgent to adopt measures that drastically reduce the consumption of plastics and increase its appreciation, increasing the recycling rate, which is currently only 42 %. As long as there is single-use plastic consumption, at least it is recycled. In 2017, we took an important step in the discussion of this issue by adopting a resolution that called on the Government to work hard to reduce the number of plastic packagings, particularly in the Public Administration. Also by the hand of the NAP, we were able to pass the law of the recoverable tara for plastic, glass and metal bottles. With this system, it is ensured that single-use bottles stop stopping at the ocean, landing or incineration, implementing a true circular economy measure. However, since beverage packaging is only part of the problem, we also presented a bill that does not allow the use of disposable plastic dishes in certain sectors of the restaurant. We intend that all utensils used once to serve and assist in the consumption of food, such as dishes, cups, shovels, forks or knives, be replaced by reusable tools. This project is in the final stage of expertise and will be completed and voted next week. Whereas the measures that have been implemented are not sufficient for reducing the use of plastics, we have also tabled a proposal aimed at extending the tax system to bags with more gramme, which is at work as a specialist. Given the harmful effects of plastic on the environment and on human health, as well as the lack of knowledge about Portuguese reality, we have also presented an initiative aimed at prohibiting the production and marketing of detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics, which is also in committee. Despite all the measures that have been proposed by the NAP, there is still much to do and the Greens measure adds value to the fight against the use of plastics. The drafting of the articulation of this bill raises some doubts, in particular as to the possibility of replacing the ultralevous bags for the primary packaging of bread, fruit and vegetables by bags of greater gramme, or even by other types of plastic packaging — which we do not want, of course — since commercial establishments are only prevented from making available disposable plastic bags or expanded polystyrene. However, we are, of course, fully available and committed to contributing, in the field of expertise, to an unequivocal drafting and allowing us to continue the work that we have done so far to "deplastification" of the economy and to combat this extractive and productive economic model.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u29	We move on to the next intervention, which is the responsibility of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are running against time! Today, it is too obvious that we are running against time and losing the battle to which we are called at environmental level. Climate changes, extreme phenomena, microplastic contamination are different faces of one problem, the result of human action on the planet. We are running against time, because these are problems that time will not solve itself, just sharpen. The truth is, no matter how difficult the behavioral changes we have to take as a society, we cannot continue to favour the disposable on a planet that is not. We are running against time, and we are no longer talking about the problems of uncontrolled spread of pollution of plastics away, in the Pacific streams, or on Indian paradise islands, transformed into open-air plastic trash. Not even this wrong and comfortable illusion of distance from the problem is allowed now. The problem is here, on the ground floor of our door. Every day we are confronted with new news: the Douro estuary flooded with microplastics; the beaches of Tavira covered by garbage tides; the fish that we put in our dishes, and that we feed our children, contaminated. Plastic, this extraordinary, resilient, versatile and so useful material is today a calamity! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are the elected representatives of the Portuguese people, an increasingly aware society of this problem and who expects us to take concrete attitudes and courageous measures to face this race against time. The new generations are attentive, they are here in our galleries and less than a month ago they showed up at our door. Our actions must show that we are listening to them and that the much we have already done is largely exceeded by what we can still do. Our actions must be great enough to speak louder than the deafening noise the planet has made, demanding more of us. So we do not lack the will or the political courage. We must make a joint effort to find solutions for the gradual but effective substitution of disposable plastic in the citizen's daily lives. An effort that includes the use of new materials, new designs, new habits, new recycling lines and new jobs from there, i.e. a circular economy in which all actors are benefited with sustainability. The PSD advocates that a strong economy and a healthy environment are not enemies, are not opposed, can and should co-exist and enhance. In 2015, we created the Green Growth Commitment, which involved more than a hundred civil society organizations, with ambitious goals, consolidating policies and reforms and placing Portugal in the leadership of the green economy. We have drawn up the Strategic Plan for Urban Waste, which has led to ambition for recycling and reuse of waste. And, with green taxation, we generated the greatest behavioral change in Portuguese society, drastically reducing the use of very harmful light plastic bags. with regard to plastic, we operated on the biggest change in Portuguese life habits with the benefit of all. More recently, we have presented projects to meet the goals of reducing plastic waste. We pointed to the end of the use of disposable plastic dishes in the restoration and replacement of 100 % biodegradable materials. We have made progress and improved, with relevant proposals for amendments, projects for the implementation of a national system of incentive and storage of beverage packages. Even in the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, we went back to this issue by proposing and ensuring the elimination of a government proposal, directing it to the disincentive to the use of the largest grammatical plastic bags. The PSD has played a very active role in defending a better environment, sharing knowledge and political will to minimize the scourge of plastic and promote the circular economy in Portugal and the world. The European Union and the United Nations ( UN) follow this thought and will. in this same line, are known the objectives for sustainable development defined by the UN where they include: sustainable production and consumption, climate action and the protection of marine life and terrestrial life. The European Commission has also adopted in the process of transition to a more circular economy the first European Plastic Strategy, which determines that by 2030 all plastic packaging placed on the Union market is recyclable, the consumption of disposable plastic objects is reduced and the intentional use of microplastics is restricted. That is to say, a new plastic economy is being launched in order to respect the needs of reuse, repair and recycling, as well as the creation of more sustainable materials. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said, we are in a race against time. Our recycling rates are very short of what is needed and we know that on the horizon of waste, particularly plastic waste, it is important to go further. We can't stay for recycling, not just for reducing use. It is essential to pave the way for the replacement of packaging components to achieve the same end, paying attention to the adaptations that such changes require of our economy and our economic agents, safeguarding safety in the packaging and transport of goods, ensuring the food security that is required, but aware of the urgency of the action that it is essential to promote these changes. For all this, we are available to enable the project we are discussing today and to detail the discussion and improvement of it, as a specialist, in the Working Group that the Committee on the Environment has created for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need a new collective consciousness, inspired and driven by the sense of urgency that we have before us. This is a struggle where there are no sides. There are no communists, socialists, social democrats, bloggers or centrists. Against nature, no one wins, against the planet, no one goes out victorious, we all lose! I believe that we can converge on the fundamentals to realize changes to a better world and a better future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u31	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for once again bringing the issue of plastics to plenary. In fact, plastic has become a serious environmental problem all over the world, and the plastic trail spread in the seas is one of its most visible brands. Moldable synthetic resins have invaded our lives, but the great quality of plastic is equal to its great defect, which is to be durable. There are, therefore, those who claim that the utility that plastic has in our lives is also what can end it. in this context, the Socialist Party considers that the problem that is discussed here today is of extreme importance and lacks response, not only for future generations as for today. The Socialist Party confirms its willingness to contribute to the construction of an innovative law, provided that it is balanced, realistic, that protects the public interest and that it is in line with international and Community law. This is only possible when ensuring a good compromise between the environmental sustainability plan and the social and economic plan. With regard to the proposal for a ban on the provision of plastic buckets for the packaging of fruits and vegetables, it is proven that there are indeed situations of excess packaging, i.e. packaging which is not strictly necessary for the protection function. The government is doing what needs to be done, with determination and rigour. in a matter as important as that of the environment, we must take safe steps and we must take them with determination. In conclusion, we agree with this legislative initiative, but we believe that the transposition of the European Directive itself, which will take place by 2020, will have an overall approach to all the products concerned. I ask Mr Bruno Coimbra whether we believe that with this initiative we are undermining the conclusions proposed by the Working Group — Plastic Wastes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u33	To reply, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u34	Mr President, Member, I would like to say very quickly that the Working Group — Plastic Wastes has worked hard on a set of projects. What the PSD here has said is that there are some savings and also some work to do, in the specialty, in relation to this project. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has already said so, and it seems to me that there is a consensus on what we want to do together from here. As such, I do not fully understand your question! The work of the Working Group cannot be affected by more positive work than it has done since today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u35	I think it's perfectly clear to everyone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u36	We move on to the next intervention, which is up to Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When I go shopping on a popular commercial large distribution surface, I'm confronted with the following dilemma in the payment box: a 50-micron plastic bag costs 5 cents; a 10-cent paper bag. But, of course, the honourable Members. Members who already know me know my rigour with public and private accounts, know that I am saved and know that my nature is inclined to acquire that of 5 cents. However, I opt systematically for others. I am among the many thousands who are concerned that every year there are more than 8 million tons of plastic going to the oceans. I therefore welcome this initiative by The Greens, which aims to prevent commercial establishments selling bread, vegetables and fruit from making ultra-light plastic bags available, that is, with less than 15 microns. But we can, and we must go even further and take advantage of the 2020 date to progressively abolish the 50 microns plastic bags and establish 2025 as a deadline to significantly abolish these plastic bags. At the same time, all retailers from small to large distribution should begin to be aware of the need to provide more sustainable alternatives, such as packaging and recycled paper bags. Finally, recalling words of order that some of the thousands of students who spoke out in front of this House shouted against climate change, on March 15th: there is no planet B!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u38	The next intervention lies with Mrs Angela Moreira of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group recognises the need for adoption of an environmental protection policy. It contributes to this objective, of course, the use of natural resources to the extent of human needs and the fight against the abuse of materials without any use, which only contribute to increasing the profitability of large economic groups. The excessive use of plastics is one of the problems that is identified, but which requires, at the same time, the development of alternatives that do not harm populations. The market and its sacralization imposed habits of consumption sometimes irrational, behaviors that make us disregard natural resources and look at nature as if it were disposable material. We believe that an environmental policy committed to ensuring the right to a healthy and ecologically balanced environment, rather than the usual concession to the purpose of profit, must be the imperative of all legislation, a legislation that is treated not in a vulva, but oriented in all its dimensions: environmental, economic and social. We continue to bet on the policy of the three Rs: reducing the use of plastics, proposing sustainable alternatives at both environmental and economic level; re-use, promoting a longer life span for materials; and recycling, which is a point to bet on, starting with the improvement of waste collection and sorting systems, without the resignation of the State from this area, responsible for the policy and waste management. in the same way, it is important for the Government to assume its powers by imposing operating rules on waste collection companies, so that they aim to improve the standard of living of the population and living with the environment, contrary to the usual concession to the purpose of profit. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If environmental protection is a matter for everyone, this requires the adoption of a national strategy, in which the State assumes a preponderant role to ensure coherent and coordinated intervention, an intervention which cannot be summed up by prohibition and counter-ordination options, which end up penalizing the same as ever — workers and populations — not always working as a solution to the problem. The intervention must be comprehensive, involving the whole community and not against the community, simultaneously responding to the challenge of development and environmental protection. It is obvious that there is a need to reduce the use of plastic packaging, especially those that have no use. Therefore, the solutions presented in the Green Bill deserve the support of the CFP. All proposals around awareness-raising and environmental awareness campaigns will always have the support of the CFP. We believe, however, that this change should, of course, be studied, evaluated and planned. We must bear in mind that at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables there is a need to maintain the quality of products in line with safety, hygiene and public health. The initiative under discussion has the obligation to provide the consumer with an alternative to the ultra-light bags and plastic buckets at the point of sale, with a deadline for this change until June 2020. However, it is important to deepen and discuss alternative solutions. We believe that innovation based on research and development can respond to this need with the creation of sustainable alternatives, so the government wants to invest in our prestigious technological and scientific system. It should be borne in mind, however, that the impact of the proposed measures may be differentiated, but we are concerned, in particular, with the impact on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, including small-scale merceries, bakeries, fruit shops or sellers in markets. The reality of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is very different from that of large distribution. The latter quickly adapt to changes, already small commodities, bakeries or fruit trees do not have the same response capacity and a change of nature may mean increased charges, penalizing them and penalizing the populations with higher prices, which once again affect people with lower incomes more expressively. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises make up a large portion of the business sector producing plastics and trade in fruits, vegetables and bread, contributing to the country's economy. We follow the concern about the need to find solutions to replace plastic packaging, so we are available to discuss this and other proposals as a specialist in order to reduce the production and use of plastic bags, in order to harmonise between economic and social development and sustainable management of natural resources. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u40	The next intervention is for Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Excess of plastic waste in the environment is a problem that everyone calls for and climate change forces us to think that there is indeed no planet B. But if there are realities that are ours and to which we must contribute and fight, there are realities that are not ours and that go beyond us, even if we do our part as best we can. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, which seems to us to be excessive and wrong to want to shoulder responsibilities, in particular Portugal, because of the existence of the huge plastic islands, which are indeed a huge problem but which will continue to exist, unfortunately, while other countries, particularly the least developed ones, do not do their part, do not make a selective collection and do not have basic sanitation. So they also have to do their part. This is a global problem that cannot be solved on a local scale alone. For this reason, the 2014 Environmental Policy Basics Act has defined, and well, that public environmental policies should promote, in addition to information, the participation of citizens and environmental education, solutions agreed with other countries in a logic of international cooperation. Portugal is included in the European Union and therefore, without prejudice to the positive incentives that the Government can and wants to create for reducing the use of plastics, it is our understanding that we should not force our companies to meet more demanding criteria than in the rest of the European Union, which are already more demanding than in many other third countries, without giving them positive incentives and allowing them to adapt. ZERO itself — Sustainable Earth System Association, for example, with whom the CDS met at the time of the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, recognized that the ban on ultralevous plastic bags in the immediate was early, because there were no alternatives. in the space of a few months, there are already those who are taking steps to find these same alternatives. This shows that civil society is extremely alert and sensitive to this issue, whether they are consumers or economic operators. There is also a very large path to innovation. Large surfaces have already announced that they will end up with plastic bags for fruit and vegetables and in the bread section, and it is not by 2020 because they already have pilot projects on the ground, providing consumers with cloth bags and allowing them to bring their own household bags. Therefore, in the CDS, we do not advocate mandatory radical solutions, tax and sanctioning. If the market is freely adapting, with all the advantages that this implies, especially environmental but also enhancing innovation by seeking new solutions, why impose in advance? Oh, my God! It is that this path puts our companies in a situation of competitive disadvantage and of comparative disadvantage to their European partners. Let's not forget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Portuguese business fabric is overwhelmingly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, and not by large companies, as sometimes the left parties want us to believe. Therefore, the CDS supports all initiatives that aim to contribute to reducing plastic and improving the environment, because we can and should do our part, but we must respect and encourage, we cannot prohibit and punish. We need to create mechanisms and those are missing. The working group I mentioned recently issued a report in December 2016 and one of the subjects that was considered fundamental was support for investment in innovation. But in this respect, we have seen no progress on the part of the Government to speed up and speed up the change that is so necessary. Until that part is done, we believe that we should not anticipate the goals with which Portugal has committed itself within the European Union. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u42	The next intervention is the PSD Parliamentary Group, through Mr António Topa. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the bill here under discussion points out, plastic has invaded our lives. Its characteristics, in particular its affordable price, have made plastic a material used on a large scale for the most varied purposes. It's a reality we all have to reverse. It's urgent to act. We cannot continue on this path. Plastic has become a serious problem for mankind, creating a life-threatening chain and the quality of seawater, as well as a complicated environmental problem, affecting, and in what way, marine fauna and flora, particularly coral reefs. Through the food chain, indirect consumption of plastic reaches all species, including humans, affecting their health and survival. It is important to inform and raise awareness about the use of plastics. It is important to act urgently, significantly reducing the entry of plastic waste into rivers, oceans and the food chain of animal species. In addition to the gradual elimination of plastics, it is also important to make its recycling and reuse. It is important to provide alternatives to the use of plastics. It is important to prohibit the availability and consequent use of plastic in ultra-light bags and disposable buckets for packaging and packaging of food products, according to the bill we discussed here, creating alternatives that do not harm us and do not cause environmental problems. The deadlines for reducing the use of plastics must be short. In addition to the care to have to do with the impacts on the packaging of agricultural production and trade, provided for in the bill, and already mentioned here, we must pay attention to companies, as well as their workers, which produce the ultralevous bags, basins and other fine plastic products, whose use is now intended to prohibit. The companies that manufacture these products are often small companies, which have to have all the time needed to re-adapt and convert their production and which have to be supported so as not to create instability and insecurity. In other words, for the good of the environment, it is necessary to act quickly, but with the awareness that it takes time for everything to proceed normally. A planet without plastics is, of course, a better planet to live. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u44	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Living with less plastic is a paradigm we should all want. Draft Law No 1187 / XIII / 4. the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. The Socialist Party, through its Parliamentary Group, sees and applauds all initiatives aimed at promoting good environmental practices and thus contributes to responding to what can be described as the great global challenge of the 21st century. I therefore cannot fail to welcome on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group this agenda of the Green Party's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Commission adopted the first major European Plastic Strategy last January. This strategy integrates the transition plan into a broad circular economy and has been designed to contribute to achieving the objectives of sustainable development, global climate commitments and the objectives of the European Union's industrial policy. Every year, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Europe produces tens of millions of tons of plastic. This quantity cannot be indifferent to us, even because, despite all awareness campaigns and all measures to combat this scourge, we still have a long way to go to be the example we want to be in protecting the environment. We have to do our job. We, Portugal, must contribute to a better planet. We know that there are countries that don't, but that's not what's going to stop our contribution so we can have a better planet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In Portugal, the Government has made such a move. in the framework of the European Strategy I mentioned, the European Commission is clear in stating that, in order to achieve a truly circular life cycle of plastics, it is important to combat the production of plastic waste and its escape to the environment. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it cannot be at all cost. There is an economy that we need to guard up, making a thoughtful transition, so that we do not run the risk of fragmentation of the market, which may eventually come from appreciable measures, as referred to by the European Commission. The work that the Portuguese Government has been doing in this regard is undeniable. in this context, reference should be made to the proposal of the Working Group, created through Dispatch No 1316 / 2018 of 7 February, in order to prohibit, from 2023, the placing on the market of ultralevous plastic bags, with the exception of biodegradable and compostable bags. With regard to the work the Portuguese Government has done, I can also quote the Action Plan for the Circular Economy, as a result of almost one year of inter-ministerial work and the decision to anticipate Brussels in six months, Mrs. Members, on the ban on the sale of pallets, plates, cutters, glasses and plastic cotton, as from July 2020. This plan has been announced by our Government and we will all contribute to the fulfilment of this wish. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, in the face of these measures, restaurants, cafes and other public establishments will have to find alternatives friendly to the environment, and the government was the first to set the example. In this regard, I recall that, in October last year, a Resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted which promotes the reduction of the consumption of paper and plastic products throughout the Public Administration. It is also important to remember the work that has been done and done in this House in the Assembly of the Republic, in the Committee on the Environment, in the Working Group on Plastic Wastes. All this has been a very important work for protecting the environment. at present, within the framework of 11. the Commission, the Committee on the Environment, in the Working Group on Plastic Waste, is discussing in particular a set of legislative initiatives proposing, in general, the prohibition of the use of disposable plastic liquor and the provision of alternatives to the distribution of these tools to consumers. in this Working Group, we were able to hear the contributions of a wide range of evaluated entities and therefore we believe that we are on the right path to legislate well and take significant steps in this area. however, we will have to give sufficient time to promote the readaptation of the market and production chains, until the costs, compared to conventional polymers, can reach threefold. In fact, we believe that Law No. 69 / 2018, which has already been referred to today by virtually all parliamentary groups and which establishes a system of incentive for the return of non-reusable plastic beverage packages and the deposit of plastic beverage packages, glass, ferrous metals and aluminium, is an example of the consensus of the parties and parliamentary groups in this House. This subject deserves the greatest attention of all. It's not just the PAN, it's not just the Greens, it's not just the Communist Party, it's not just the Left Block, it's not only the Socialist Party, it's not just the CDS, it's not just the PSD, it's all of us, it's all the parliamentary groups, it's all the parties and it's all the Portuguese. This work is being done and therefore the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group broadly agrees with Bill No. 1187 / XIII / 4. a, which we are discussing today. however, we believe that the transposition of the European directive which will soon take place will have an overall approach to all the products concerned and will also take into account the result of the Working Group set up to do so. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group argues that we should look at some of the issues that have already been addressed in my speech as a matter of debate. We therefore believe that this initiative should be down to 11. the Commission, so that it can be directed to the Working Group which is already dealing with this issue and thus be worked in parallel with the initiatives already under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the light of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia's replies to the questions put to her, in order to know if she was available to make some changes to her bill, the Socialist Party is available to vote favourably for the project to then, in the field of expertise, make the adaptations to the world that, out there, expects us to make a law that meets the need of all Portuguese people, because the environment is important to everyone. It's up to everyone to change the way we use plastic. It's up to everyone to do their best every day. It's up to everyone to improve the planet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u46	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate, I think it is clear that the consensus environment which is generally achieved in this House around the protection of the environment and which, as a rule, also occurs within 11. the Commission on these matters. We can diverge in how to achieve effective environmental protection, but we cannot diverge in the objectives. Plastic is one of the wastes with the greatest expression and diffusion in Portugal and around the world. This diffusion culminated in the existence of genuine plastic islands in the seas and their intake by cetaceans and fish, generating an undesirable marine pollution and consequently entering our food chain. Combating this reality is a collective and global imperative. The previous government, in spite of the numerous challenges ahead, did not go astray and made a clear choice for green taxation, which, in concert, promoted greater environmental awareness and an objective change of mentalities. Moreover, with regard to the reduction of light plastic bags, the success was such that it made Portugal an international reference...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u49	... and the measures taken deserve even the praise of the current Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u50	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u51	It is noted that the objective of reducing the use of light plastic bags to 50 per capita bags in 2015 and 35 per capita bags in 2016, by creating a rate of 0, 08 € on each bag, when in 2014 — it is good to remember! — each Portuguese used, on average, 466 bags per year, it was, as everyone knows, largely achieved, reaching 98 % reduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u53	We all testify to this every day. Let us witness this extraordinary change in Portuguese behaviour—and it is good to remember here, because it is not a financial issue, it is an environmental issue—which have massively moved on to reuse the plastic bags they have at home. We all know, because that's what each of us does when he goes to the supermarket. Actions to reduce the use of plastic in our country have been varied and the definition of ambitious targets and levels of recycling and reuse of waste has been another impetus for citizens' awareness. If it is true that much of the Portuguese people are already sending the waste they produce to recycling, others are still not doing so and in this sense any reinforcement within the framework of the policy of the three Rs is to support and greet. The PSD has been making its contribution in this area by incorporating circular economic policies into a green growth agenda, acting on sustainability and environmental balance, having achieved, as a government, the involvement of all stakeholders, particularly among the public and private, non-governmental organizations, associations, local communities and international organizations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been done, but there is a great deal to be done. It is essential to continue to change mentalities, which are already felt, and to continue with the goal of achieving an increasingly open society and a real change of attitudes. It is also this, as we have seen, the word of order of the European Union, where the various existing directives on this subject and the already mentioned European Strategy on Plastics, as a whole, close the siege of this polluter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u55	Not being this new theme for us, Portugal can be proud to have begun this difficult path long ago and can display, without complex results achieved. This is due to all Portuguese and to the reinforcement and contribution they have learned and wanted to use in this purpose, for future generations. Already in the market a number of solutions to the alternative use of plastic materials are increasingly their followers who understand, as we in the PSD, the emergence of this situation. It was in this sense that we recommended that the Government undertake studies to seek the best replacement solutions at the level of the restoration material. In addition, we are awaiting another proposal for a recommendation, which will soon come to this House, for the promotion of measures to meet the goals of reducing plastic waste and we have also been actively involved in the legislative processes in the area of reducing the use of plastics, improving its application to the reality of the country, taking into account all sectors involved, in particular the economy, and within the economy, agriculture, the environment and the consumer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u57	Also within the framework of this legislative process, which brought us here the Greens Ecological Party, the PSD will mark an active presence and will not fail to contribute to ensure that legislative continuity in this area is a reality. If the PSD has initiated a fight against light plastic bags, there is no reason not to give continuity to this process as part of the specialty of the diploma in question, introducing the changes and improvements which, in our view, we consider appropriate to increase the effectiveness of the diploma. We know that there are actions and reforms in which the blockades of the various sectors involved can hinder or even hinder their success. Nevertheless, the PSD believes that the legal good we want to defend here justifies an increased effort to achieve its protection and defence, reconciling, as far as possible, all interests in the presence. in this sense, it is our duty, not only as citizens, as our Basic Law prescribes in its article 66. the, but above all, as representatives of the people, who elected us democratically, we work in defense of an environment and a quality of life ecologically balanced and healthy, both for us and for future generations. The environment can, as always, count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u58	The next intervention is by Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has already expressed its position on this matter today. however, it is important to say that we have also intervened with concrete proposals to reduce superfluous packagings, without any use, which serve only the interest of large economic groups, which, from then on, earn more profit at the cost of the charges borne by the population. We also have an initiative that proposes to create an alternative to the distribution of disposable food utensils in plastics in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments. We have already stated here today that an environmental protection strategy is needed, but when we talk about environmental matters - and apparently there are several issues that are put here - it is important to clarify that, contrary to the last intervention, that of Mrs Berta Cabral, we completely oppose a position of taxation, of the burden of workers and of the population, on behalf of the environment. This is what the PSD and CDS governments have done with the so-called Green Taxation. In the name of the environment, what they did was to impose more rates and to increase, in particular, the life of those who have less incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u60	Oh, is it? Have the PCP already removed these rates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u61	And that, obviously, we did not follow up at the time, and we still do not follow up, because we believe that it is not to burden those who live with more difficulties that will solve the environmental problems. [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] This is the central issue we wanted to put in this debate, because the approach to these matters also needs to be put from the point of view of the awareness of those responsible, particularly because of the high levels of pollution that we have in general in the world. And who are those responsible? The big economic groups! The capitalist system in which we live effectively has, in its nature, the exploitation of natural resources in a logic of consumption, when it is not necessary that same exploitation is needed to satisfy the basic needs of human beings. however, on this issue in particular, we have not heard a word on the part of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, and that it is important to put, because in fact we cannot burden the people, nor can we penalise those who are already penalized with all these measures of fees and prohibitions. There is a need for wider intervention, but it is also necessary to put this central issue on this issue, because we do not protect the environment simply by saying that we are in favour, then, in practice, we need to see what intervention has been done in order to hold those with great responsibility for this matter, and we do not see this intervention by several parties here who are talking about protecting the environment. In conclusion, Mr President, I would not only like to stress that the commitment of the CFP to exploit natural resources, to protect them, to the use of the whole population of good that is of us all, but also, again, to reiterate our commitment to this matter in particular, because we believe that there is room for deepening the debate to find solutions that are more appropriate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u62	The next intervention is the Socialist Party, by Mr Renato Sampaio. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ban is sometimes a necessary evil, but it cannot be the rule. And the necessary evil, in this policy of plastics, must be applied, but we must also have another type of policy that is more effective and capable of solving the problem. If, at first, priority was given to the treatment of waste, there is another triad, which, basically, in relation to waste policy, also has all the importance, which is to reduce, recycle and reuse. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the country must also increase not only the re-use and recycling capacity, in an integrated plan, in an action up to the waste management chain, but also the effectiveness of the separation of waste. Therefore, selective re-use and recycling collection must be urgently implemented, and here, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the authorities have a fundamental role to play. Nor can we leave aside, as I said in my question to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the responsibility of producers and distributors, which must contribute as fundamental elements to traversing this difficult path, which is to cancel and prevent the proliferation of plastics in the territories. I have found in this debate that a broad consensus has been created on the priority of reducing plastics. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports this concern and the Greens' initiative, but always with the aim of not forgetting, on the one hand, the economy and, on the other, the initiatives already in the working group on plastics. The contribution we make is to enable this initiative, so that we can have legislation in line with our responsibilities and at the time we live so that we can have a better environment in Portugal and on the planet and, fundamentally, so that the quality of life of the citizens is better than what we find today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u64	at this moment, although the other parliamentary groups still have time, the Bureau does not register entries. Therefore, you have the floor to close the debate, the proposing party, the Greens Ecologist Party, through Mr. José Luís Ferreira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of the debate on a matter as important as it is the need to create mechanisms to free ourselves from the dependence on plastic, the first note that the Greens want to register concerns the recognition by all the banks of the seriousness of the problem, which reinforces the importance and opportunity of the initiative that the Greens have brought to discussion today. And I'm glad it is, because the scenario is very black. in the European Union, there are about 58 million tonnes of plastic per year and Portugal has an average of 31 kg per person, which, as you can see, corresponds to a value greater than the European average. In fact, gradually the use of plastic has ended up imposing itself and being an integral part of our daily lives. Its versatile nature, its durability, resistance, malleability and, above all, the low cost of its production transformed plastic into a material used on a large scale for the most varied purposes. However, as « there is no beauty without exception», it is also necessary to look closely at the other side, i.e. for the consequences of large-scale use, so much ease and many advantages. Now, as we all know, plastic has become a very serious environmental problem, contaminating, in particular, our seas, with serious repercussions, particularly for marine fauna. The news about the consequences of the use of plastic, which are frequent and with a frightening regularity, will tell us of situations that should be unthinkable: marine birds, whales, turtles and other species are found with the stomach literally filled with plastic. In fact, this threat affects the most diverse marine species and, through the food chain, the indirect consumption of plastic easily reaches other species and also humans. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u66	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting you, but I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing, some back to the rostrum, to sit or leave. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, involuntaryly, with ignorance and without giving it, the fact is that fish consumers have just taken the serious risk of ingesting plastic, which, in addition to the overall environmental dimension, has an impact on human health and the survival of other beings. That is, when we talk about the dangers of using plastic, we do not only talk about its environmental dimension; we also talk about its dimension in terms of health. in fact, plastics can constitute toxic elements for living organisms or ecosystems and, if not, are strange elements that are gradually changing the composition of these same ecosystems. Once released in free space, plastics, through the action of environmental agents, will be divided into microplastics that enter the food chain, with consequences for many species, including human beings. In fact, it has become common to talk about the serious problem of contamination of the oceans by plastics and at the increasingly frequent entry of microplastics into the structures of living organisms, which also easily reach food products for human consumption. Recent studies leave no doubt as to the presence of microplastics in the salt used for cooking, including in Portuguese brands. But more: the studies also report that, in addition to salt, these components have already been detected in other foods, such as fish, seafood and even honey or beer. Says who knows that about 85% of marine pollution results from the release of plastic in the free environment and the most serious is that in 2050, if nothing is done to reverse this scenario, it is very likely that our seas will have more plastic than fish. We therefore speak of a truly frightening reality that imposes on us the responsibility to act urgently, in order to prevent the entry of new plastic waste into the rivers, estuary and oceans. As is public, the Greens have over the years presented a number of legislative initiatives aimed, above all, at reducing the use of packaging and reducing the use of plastics and this legislative initiative is, therefore, another contribution, one more proposal which the Greens put forward with a view to reducing the use of plastics. The fact is that commercial establishments continue to be a center of consumption and accumulation of plastic. Due to the lack of alternatives, consumers are often forced to bring with them a significant set of plastics, even above which they do not need and which they will not even reuse. This is the case, for example, in the fruit and vegetables section where ultra-light bags are available as primary packaging of products sold in bulk. The same happens with the grouping or packing of fruits and vegetables in spherovitis and coated with conventional plastic adhesive film, often used in kitchen. However, these packagings only have the function of packaging or grouping of foodstuffs and nothing has to do with preserving the quality of the products, which, moreover, are often sold to bulk. This reality can and should be different, and it is to this end that the Greens have brought to discussion today their proposal, their contribution, with the conviction that market supply is crucial to achieving more sustainable objectives and that consumer options, being important, are not sufficient to the extent that consumers often end up without a choice. We therefore propose that commercial establishments be prevented from providing ultra-levous plastic bags for primary packaging or transport of bread, fruit and vegetables and from selling fruit and vegetables packaged in disposable buckets containing plastic or in spherovite. thus, distributors should provide the consumer with alternatives to primary bread, fruit and vegetables, sold in bulk at the sales points, consisting of other more sustainable materials. On the other hand, and at the same time, commercial establishments must adapt to consumers who want to carry their own bags to condition the fruits and vegetables sold in bulk or the bread they buy. In addition, the Greens also propose that the Government promote consumer awareness campaigns for the use of non-disposable own bags in bread, fruit and vegetables, as well as awareness-raising actions aimed at those responsible for commercial establishments, so that they adapt to the use of their own, non-disposable bags by consumers. With this proposal, the Greens do their part and make their contribution to curbing this real scourge that has taken account of our day to day. in the context of this discussion, it is also important not to lose sight of the scope of this proposal as regards the policy of the three Rs on waste. As we know, the three Rs are not random, they comply with criteria in terms of hierarchy and priority and the first Rs, which concerns reduction, is imposed on the rest, which means that re-use and recycling come later in terms of priorities. In fact, the non-production of a waste is at all levels and at all levels more sustainable than its production, even if its destination is reuse or recycling, and this proposal affects exactly the first R, i.e. the R of waste reduction. With regard to the reservations of those who find difficulties in this fight, in the proposal which The Greens bring to discussion today, because it will be a problem for the market, because there are no alternatives, an example is that when the House adopted a few years ago, and on the proposal of the Greens, a resolution for the Assembly of the Republic to use exclusively recycled paper was also a mess because the paper was wetter and the printers and photocopiers were constantly encased with the recycled paper. « The market was not ready» some said. The fact is, two days after that decision, machines were already prepared and properly calibrated to receive recycled paper and without any problems, as we can see today. It is that demand is also decisive in market rules and in production modes, and that is what is intended with this legislative initiative. In addition, the Greens reaffirm their full availability to receive contributions from the other banks, in order to improve the content of this proposal, provided that, of course, it does not distort its central object. Thus, when we proceed immediately to the vote on the Green Bill, which we have just discussed, each bench will assume its responsibilities and, as you can see during the debate, will be in line with the fight that everyone must mobilize. We, The Greens, have done our part, by the oceans, by the ecosystems, by the environment, but also by our health. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-11.u68	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the discussion, in general, of the Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a, so we will proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 191 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members of the PS Carlos César, João Soares and Pedro do Carmo and of the Mrs. Members of PSD Inês Domingos and Fernando Negrão, thanking 196 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Therefore, we will proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed our work today, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, 12 a.m. at 10 a.m. on a number of agenda items. of the first point is the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 1522 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of the Secondary School of Barcelinhos and 1534 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelos Secondary School. of the second point is the general discussion of the Bill No. 1176 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Clarifies the provisions of Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July in respect of restrictions on institutional advertising by public entities in the electoral period. The third point is followed by the assessment of Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career[ Parliamentary evaluations No 115 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 125 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). of the fourth point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 2052 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to effectively encourage the establishment of integrated responsibility centres. of the fifth point is the debate of draft resolution No 2049 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the Portugal decoupling procedure of the budgetary treaty. Finally, on the sixth point, we will have a regular vote. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. The plenary session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]]
