ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, Journalists and Members. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Today's agenda consists of a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. But before we wait for the presence of Mr. Prime Minister and the Government, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do us a lot of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by announcing the outcome of the elections that took place in the previous session. First, the vote for the Internal Security Council shall be as follows: « At the twenty-two days of November of two thousand and nine, the election to the Internal Security Higher Council was held and the following result was reached: Voters — 214 Votes « yes » — 146 White votes — 58 No votes — 10 in the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, are declared elected to the Higher Council of Internal Security Fernando José dos Santos Anastácio ( PS ) and André Magalhães Coelho Lima ( PSD ). To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Lina Lopes — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, the vote for the High Council of National Defence is as follows: « At the twenty-two days of November of two thousand and nineteen, two members were elected to the Superior Council of National Defence. The result was as follows: Voters — 214 Votes « yes » — 150 White votes — 56 No votes — 8 In view of the result obtained, Members João Albino Rainho Ataíde das Neves ( PS ) and Fernando Mimoso Negro ( PSD ) are elected to the National Defence Superior Council. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Voting Members, Diogo León — Lina Lopes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, the vote for the Council of State shall be as follows: « At the twenty-two days of November of two thousand and nineteen, five citizens were elected to the Council of State. A list was presented with the following candidates: Carlos Manuel Martins do Vale César ( PS ), Francisco José Pereira Pinto Balsamão ( PSD ), Francisco Anacleto Louçã ( BE ), Rui Fernando da Silva Rio ( PSD ), Domingos Abrantes Ferreira ( PCP ). The result was as follows: Votes — 214 Votes « yes » — 179 White votes — 26 No votes — 9 in the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are declared elected for the Council of State: Carlos Manuel Martins do Vale César ( PS ), Francisco José Pereira Pinto Balsamão ( PSD ), Francisco Anacleto Louçã ( BE ), Rui Fernando da Silva Rio ( PSD ), Domingos Abrantes Ferreira ( PCP ). To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Voting Members, Diogo León — Lina Lopes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to a number of diplomas which have entered the Bureau and which have been admitted by Mr President. I begin by referring to the following bills: No 102 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the social and labour protection of parents in a child care framework with oncological disease, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 103 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP): — Prohibits suppliers of goods and service providers to make value-added numbers of the ranges « 707 », « 708 », « 760 », « 761 », « 762 » available for contacts by consumers, ensuring geographical numbers of prefix « 2 » and / or mobile prefix « 9 », which falls to 6. the Commission ; points 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) : — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the installation of olives and peanuts in intensive and superintensive regime, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 106 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Eliminates the sustainability factor in pensions covered by the special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for workers in the rock industry, domestic workers or underground mining and mining and other special schemes resulting from the particularly heavy or weary nature of the professional activity performed, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 108 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Updates asbestos listing in public buildings, facilities and equipment and makes public the respective monitoring and corrective actions timing plan( 1 ). the amendment to Law No 2 / 2011, from 9 February ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 109 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — regulates labour relations in counseling, which goes down to 10. the Commission ; point 111 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increases the initial parental leave period in 60 days in the case of birth of a child with disabilities or rare disease and increases the amount of the allowance for assistance to a child with disabilities, chronic illness or oncological disease, proceeding to 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February ( Labour Code ) to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal System of Social Protection in Parentality ) and 4. the amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal Regime of Social Protection in the Parentality of Public Service Workers Integrated in the Convergent Social Protection Scheme ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) - 50. the amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; points 113 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Gives lawyers the prerogative to suspend judicial proceedings in which they are agents or informal defenders in the event of serious illness or exercise of parental rights, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 115 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the removal of products containing asbestos fibres still present in buildings, installations and equipment, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( 9 ). the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; point 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( 9. the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality ), which goes down to 1. the Commission ; point 122 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment, which falls to 11. the Commission ; and No 123 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Creation of allowance for victims of violence who are forced to leave their homes, which falls to 10. the Commission. They also took part in the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President to the following parliamentary assessments: No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 166 / 2019 of 31 October establishing the New Legal Regime of the Professional Activity of the Maritimes; 2 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 114 / 2019, of 20 August, establishing the regime of the special supervisory career, ending the careers of municipal prosecutors, technical works prosecutors, technical prosecutors of public works and all careers of adjectived technical prosecutors; and No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 161 / 2019, of 25 October, which creates the Revive Nature Fund for the promotion of the recovery of devolved property inserted in natural heritage. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted by Mr President, the following draft resolutions: No 94 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a teacher recruitment group in the area of early childhood intervention, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 95 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Programme to defend the fishing of the fence and its professionals, which falls to 7. the Commission ; No 96 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently draw up a plan for the withdrawal of all asbestos materials in public schools, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 99 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the preparation of concrete and permanent measures aimed at reducing the effects of drought, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 100 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — by abolishing tolls in A23, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; point 101 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of educational action assistants, which goes down to 8. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the effective implementation of the Tax Reduction Support Programme ( PART) throughout the national territory, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — by setting up an early intervention recruitment group, which falls to 8. the Commission ; point 106 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to reduce the response period of the National Pension Centre and ensure timely access to old age, disability and survival pensions, which falls to 10 : the Commission ; No 111 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — for the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff, which falls to 8. a ( PAN) — Ensures the autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service in the hiring of human resources, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; points 113 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the updated and cross-cutting survey of matters to be envisaged in the establishment of the Statute of the Former Fighters with a view to the development of a new own legal regime that meets its specificity and needs, which falls to 3. the Commission ; and No 114 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By a public, articulated and decentralized response to prevention and combating violence against women, which falls to 1. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We did well to start the session before the government arrived, because, indeed, reading today's file was a great effort. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. As I announced earlier today, the agenda consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, which today takes place under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The data of the INE (National Institute of Statistics) on combating poverty and its eradication were released yesterday. I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies the Government in its key priority of continuing a path of combating and reducing inequalities and also of combating poverty. at this time, I would like to highlight the three most relevant data from the public policies carried out and from the reversal of disastrous economic policies of the troika time, which allow us to highlight today that in the last three years some 200 000 people have left poverty, which means 179 people per day. In 2018 we reached the poverty risk rate and the lowest level of inequality ever. There has been a reduction in child poverty that has reached a minimum of history, which means that today we have less than 83,000 children in poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have reached and surpassed, Prime Minister, the goal that we had committed ourselves to reducing the number of people below the poverty or social exclusion threshold in the European 2020 strategy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, these are data that we should emphasise and which mean an increased responsibility to continue working on what it has actually contributed to these results... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ..., i.e. the best living conditions and the best economic conditions in which Portuguese people live today, which are a very significant reduction in the unemployment rate, economic growth above the European average and the resumption of coherent social policies that are the genetic heritage of the Socialist Party, and therefore also wanted to underline them. Mr Prime Minister, if these facts are positive and if we should emphasise them, there are two facts that leave us some concern and do not deprive us of continuing to fight for something else. On the one hand, if the unemployment rate is today the lowest of many years in Portugal, it is no less true that the two most vulnerable groups are the unemployed and about 11 % of workers still at risk of poverty. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to workers, you have already given a clear signal at the beginning of this legislation, particularly with regard to wage valuation. Today we are faced with the need to continue to increase the national minimum wage and therefore I would like to welcome the Government's efforts to achieve a minimum wage of 750 € at the end of this legislature, the largest increase in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to stress that the importance of looking at these data is to continue, as we have seen today through social dialogue, with the unwavering commitment of the government and this bank to reduce inequalities, to reduce social exclusion and to reduce poverty through wage recovery. If we know today that the average wage value has already increased significantly over the past four years, we also know that we still have a way to go. That is why the first question I leave to you, Prime Minister, is the following: what is the level of commitment of the Government to continue this income and wage policy, which cannot exclude the qualification of our average frameworks and the reconciliation of family life with working life? This policy cannot exclude anyone from the undertaking of greater competitiveness of companies, better qualification of our workers and better wages for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, if it is true that we have done a lot in these four years, I would also like to say that the issue of combating poverty is not just about the income each person has to live. Today, the most excluded income is €18 per day. Think about what you'd do with 18 € a day! That is precisely why a commitment is needed from the entire House to combat poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that the commitment to combating poverty cannot only be in relation to income, so the government has done more. It is about combating poverty that is talking about coherent social policies, about solidarity, about the right that everyone has to dignity, about access to the opportunities that society gives us, including access to education, health and social protection. Mr. Prime Minister, although today, fortunately, in Portugal, the unemployed are much less than they were four years ago, the truth is that this is a layer of society to which we have to look. We last improved the social unemployment allowance in September and now we must continue to give hope to these people who feel that they are more vulnerable than they were a few years ago. Mr Prime Minister, you will count on the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, and I hope that from the whole House, with a fierce fight against poverty and an unwavering commitment so that access to all opportunities for a more just, more supportive and less unequal society is even our priority in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u5	In reply, I have the floor of Mr. Prime Minister, whom I take advantage of to greet, since he was not here at the beginning of the sitting when I greeted all those present. But it did good not to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u6	Mr. President, I am very grateful for the nice way of drawing ears... [[Laughing.]] Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I believe that yesterday's data are particularly important in that they show that the policy we initiated yesterday four years ago did not limit ourselves to having the lowest deficit in our democracy, that we have resumed, for the first time since the beginning of the century, convergence with the European Union and that we have halved the unemployment rate. In addition to more growth, more and better employment, we have effectively achieved greater equality in Portugal. That is a very significant fact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday we first learned three things: that today there are fewer than 500 000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, that there are fewer than 400 000 people at severe material deprivation and that there are fewer than 190 000 people at risk of poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also know that the reduction in the risk rate of poverty included children, the elderly, the unemployed and women, that is, the sectors where poverty was most prevalent. It is very important that this reduction has happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are five points I would like to highlight. First, this reduction occurs in a context where the improvement of median income increases the value from which we consider that someone is at risk of poverty. And despite the fact that there has been this increase in value in relation to the poverty threshold, today we have fewer people in this situation. This is a double victory. It means that the average wage in Portugal has risen and that the risk of poverty continues to decline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between 2015 and 2018, the average wage improved 62 € per month. Only between 2017 and 2018, the average wage increased 34 € per month... Or, better, in relation to the poverty threshold, increased 34 € per month and 62 € per month throughout the Legislature. Despite this increase, there are fewer people at risk of poverty, which is very important to underline. Secondly, in addition to reducing the number of people at risk of poverty, poverty is less severe among those still at risk of poverty. Poverty intensity has decreased by 4, 6 percentage points since 2016 and only between 2017 and 2018 has decreased by 2, 1 percentage points. This is a very significant reduction that we cannot fail to welcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, Mrs Deputies, the data on poverty at work to which you referred, and despite the figures on improving labour intensity are very clear, show the correct priority that we have defined as a continuing increase in the national minimum wage as a fundamental condition for reducing poverty with those who work. over the last three years, the intensity of the work improved three percentage points. That is, not only are there more people working, but there are more people working longer throughout the year. It is this intensity of work, as well as the composition of the family group that explain that there is still poverty at work, since the poverty threshold is still well below what is the national minimum wage. The reason why there are people who, even earning more than the national minimum wage, are at risk of poverty is that they do not work for 12 months per year and also have to do with the composition of their family aggregate. This means that we must continue to improve the national minimum wage year after year, if we really want to continue to have a sustained reduction in the level of poverty among those who work. That must be a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fourth point I would like to stress is that the figures released yesterday also demonstrate the importance of our pension system and social benefits. contrary to what is sometimes said, the level of poverty in Portugal would be 43, 5 % would not be the reduction due to pensions and social benefits. This led to a reduction of 43, 5 % to 17 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means that the State does not take responsibility for its role solely for entrusting companies with the duty they also have to combat poverty. No, the State assumes its responsibilities, and the taxation of Portuguese income is a tax of solidarity which has a redistributive effect of the greatest importance. We can't devalue that factor. Finally, I would like to underline the following: the effect of either the reduction in the number of persons in severe material deprivation or at risk of poverty, or those at risk of poverty and social exclusion, has been translated into levels of inequality. Who looks at the Gini Coefficient, the S90 / S10 and S80 / S20 indexes sees that we have had a significant reduction in inequalities in Portugal over the past four years. This is the path that we must continue to have a more decent, more supportive and fairer society for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u7	Ms Ana Catarina Mendes continued to speak by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, indeed, whenever the Socialist Party was a government, social policies have taken another proportion and poverty reduction is actually a reality. Mr. Prime Minister, given that next week he will participate in the World Climate Summit in Madrid, he would like to take this last minute to highlight a reality that is in the Government Programme, which is the concern for climate change and with all we have to do to fight them or the challenges that they pose to us. The fact is that today, a number of experts say that indeed the Iberian Peninsula and the South of Europe are the regions of Europe that stand out because they are the ones that will potentially be most affected by climate change either by the increase in drought intensity, or by floods, sudden rains, fires, finally by a set of factors. And because we are in the field of combating poverty, Mr Prime Minister, I do not ask you a question, I would like to say that the message that Portugal is going to take by its voice is that, in combating climate change and looking at them, if you pay attention to those who are most penalized, who are even the most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged. It is estimated that millions of poor people can exist in 2030 if nothing is done. Portugal already has letters on climate change and on meeting its goals and, therefore, I would like to leave this record in the week in which there will be a climate strike promoted by our students, and next week there will be the Climate Summit, which we, in the Socialist Party, consider very important. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u10	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, as you know, of the four major strategic objectives we have undertaken in the Government Programme, is to face the challenge of climate change in a cross-cutting manner, with a common policy across the Government. With regard to our international commitments, we were the first country, at the COP of Marrakesh, to take the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 and also the first country to define a Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, and in the National Energy and Climate 2030 we increased the demand for the goals we intend to achieve. Now, it is with that requirement and with the responsibility that we have of the commitments we assume that we will present ourselves at COP25, so that this is a commitment of all and not just of some. It is therefore on the basis of this commitment that we have already announced the anticipation of the closure of coal plants to 2021 and 2023 and that we continue to beat ourselves to increase energy production based on renewables, to increase energy efficiency levels, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular with the increase in the use of public transport and with the transition to a mobility paradigm that does not base on the consumption of fossil fuels. This is the transition we have to make, but this does not mean greater energy poverty for families and a distortion of the conditions of productivity and competitiveness of Portuguese companies. Moreover, we see this transition as a great opportunity for us to have greater economic growth and more and better employment in Portugal and the rest of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u11	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To put questions, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to bring you a question which is of utmost importance and which has to do with the saving rate in Portugal. Portugal today, at the family level, has a savings rate equal to that which it had in the late 1950s, beginning of the 1960s, when we were a paupérimo country, when, even then, we saw people barefoot in the streets. at that time, Portuguese families could save only 4, 4% of GDP. last year, in 2018, families saved 4, 5 % of GDP. This saving rate has already exceeded 20 % by 25 April and reached 20 % even after 25 April. At present, we have an absolutely miserable saving rate. On the other hand, the external balance has begun to worsen - and we have a high external debt - was, in fact, the main determinant for the call of the troika - so we will have to do everything we can to improve the savings and the external balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u14	Today, whoever puts money on a bank, who saves, has an absolutely ridiculous interest rate—of 0, 1 %, 0, 2 % and, in some cases, 0, 05 %. In other words, anyone who saves, in Portugal, has no incentive to continue to do so. So there is a very relevant question to be asked. We want to know, ultimately, about these miserable savings rates, whether it is the idea of the government, for example, in part, of what is suggested in the Socialist Party's Election Programme, to pay even more for saving. [[PSD applause.]] interest on long-term deposits, bonds, dividends, etc. Today they pay a liberal rate, a high rate of 28 %. If those interest is taken into account, they will in most cases pay a rate of more than 30 % and may even reach 40 %. How will we be able to encourage savings, which is absolutely nuclear for the development of the country, for investment and for the balance of external accounts — it is a nuclear variable — when we continue with a savings rate equal to that of 1959 and 1960, at a time when the country was as it was? Mr. Prime Minister, notice one thing when comparing capital incomes with labour incomes: today, no one can live from capital incomes, because whoever has capital incomes loses money. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u15	Little fellas...! You little bastards!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u16	Who has capital income... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u17	Work! Ah, it's so hard to live with incomes...!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u18	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the speaker finish your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Those who have capital incomes lose money just because the low interest rates as they are can never even cover inflation. Therefore, if anyone wants to live on income, he does not live; he has to go 'eat' the initial capital to any application he makes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u20	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u21	What I just said about politics is zero, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is factual! [[PSD applause.]] And, in some cases, even the nominal value itself is negative when there are applications of negative interest rates. In addition, we have the urban lease, i.e. the same liberating rate is applied to those who used their savings in the urban lease rather than in a financial product. Question: for urban rent, for people who have applied their savings in buying a house to rent it and who pay 28 % today, will there also be encumbrance? Are they also going to increase the tax burden on these types of applications?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u22	What about those who live in your salary? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u23	What does this mean? It means that, if they do so, they hit the landlords, they hit the tenants because the rents will have to increase even more, they hit all the savers in a general way and they hit the saving rate in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] What I am going to say now, I think, is insurmountable in the divergence between us, but it has to be said and repeated, in addition to having been repeated to satiety during the election campaign: Mr. Prime Minister, Portugal does not need any more taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u25	Portugal needs less taxes! Therefore, also on the issue of inclusiveness or non-inclusion, we are talking about more taxes or less taxes and a variable which is nuclear and strategic for the development of the Portuguese economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u26	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u27	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, I believe that we have a substantially different view of the reality of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u28	Good! That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u29	The honourable Member is convinced that no one lives on capital income and I am sure that it is not the majority, but there are those who live on capital income. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But there is something in which I am also absolutely sure: when we look at the rates revealed yesterday by the National Institute of Statistics on the incidence of poverty in Portugal, we find people who live from their pensions, we find people who live from their work, we find people who are deprived of their jobs, but we find no one who lives only from capital income and who is in poverty. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] The discussion is not about whether we have more taxes or less taxes, it is about whether we have a fairer distribution of tax charges among all. The discussion on envelopment is only that. It is not worth creating papões, Mr President, especially it is not worth creating papões for a government which has adopted tax measures aimed at saving or investing in renting for housing, whether it invests in strengthening the capital of its companies. However, the incentives we created for reinvestment in companies, in order to strengthen their capitalisation, were very important tax incentives, because we reduced the taxation of those who have profits and reinvest them in their businesses. On the other hand, we have introduced up to the exemption from the liberalization rate for lease contracts when they are placed under affordable lease arrangements. Therefore, the incentives we have given have been aimed at investing more in companies and the lease market and not the other way around. What I can assure you is that, in no case, there will be any inclusion measures that harm saving, damage investment in the lease market or damage investment in companies and the strengthening of their financial autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u30	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, live on capital incomes, if this capital is applied in urban leases, it is now possible to live on capital incomes applied in financial products, with an inflation rate clearly higher than the interest rate. This, I repeat, of politics has nothing, is a very simple arithmetic. Therefore, if the government moves into the englomeration, that is, if it ends the libertarian rate and moves into the englomeration with respect to renting, with more a little way, or income increases even more or, even so, it is difficult to live from capital incomes. What I say to you, Prime Minister, is as follows: Portugal needs a model of growth based on exports and investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u33	For this, we need a higher saving rate, for investment and for the reduction of external debt. Otherwise, any investment must be financed by external debt, which exacerbates our balance. [[PSD applause.]] We must promote the savings of companies, as I said, and it is true, but we must also encourage the savings of small-scale farmers and, therefore, increase attractiveness, so that small-scale farmers can save, it is absolutely vital. The liberalization rate affects long-term deposits, bonds, investment funds, dividends and incomes, which are exactly savings products. I don't understand how it says it's going to move, it's going to encompass and that it won't affect the incentive to save!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u34	It's a miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u35	This will necessarily further undermine the saving rate. Mr Prime Minister, to move on is to increase taxes, to discourage savings, to encourage consumption by contrast to savings, to encourage imports, to encourage external deficits and, consequently, to encourage external debt. Economically, it's a mistake! That is why I say to you — and this was already in the PSD Elections Programme — that if we had won the elections, we would be doing exactly the opposite: the rate of liberation not only remained as low from 28% to 25%, which was a matter of short or medium-term, and the revenue, perhaps, was higher than the 28% we have now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u37	Let me ask you another question about the tax issue, which I have already asked several times, but I have never received an answer. In 2004, the Government of Durão Barroso came to an end with the successive tax in Portugal, an unfair tax because people paid when income was generated and paid on the sum of income that goes to the « heritage » category. So they paid about the estate and still had to pay when they passed the estate to their legitimate heirs. The left doesn't see anything else in front of it except to resume the successive tax. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u38	Mr Prime Minister, the question which I have asked you many times and which I am asking now, for the first time here in Parliament, is the following: does the Socialist Party / the Government completely exclude the possibility of relaunching successive taxes in Portugal or admit that this is possible in one of the next budgets of the State? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u39	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u40	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I am a little puzzled by your immense desire to have discussions out of time. [[PSD protests.]] Let us begin with the successive tax, whose discussion comes with more than four years' delay. in the 2015 Election Program, the Socialist Party had effectively planned, under certain conditions, the reintroduction of the successive tax. in the negotiations that we then had with the Left Block, with the Ecological Party « The Greens » and with the Portuguese Communist Party, disappeared this framework of conditions, was abandoned the successive tax. [[PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL rice.]] Yeah, yeah! Exactly! It's true! [[PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let Mr. Prime Minister finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u42	Therefore, already in the 2015 Government Programme, which took possession yesterday four years ago, there was no successive tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u43	But there was the intention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u44	This year, neither in the PS Electoral Programme, nor in the Government Programme, there is any possibility of successive taxation. It is therefore a discussion that comes with more than four years' delay and completely out of time, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u45	He is, he is! Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u46	With regard to the inclusion, it is also out of date, because you are looking to imitate Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, which does not mean discussing any proposal that the Government has put forward or any proposal that the Government has announced for the 2020 budget, is simulating hypotheses from an academic point of view, each of them more absurd than the other, to make it clear that there should be no kind of involvement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has been elected for a four-year term and, if we ever get to discuss the enclave, I hope he is still here to have this discussion in due course. I am almost sure, I must tell you that we will not have this debate in the 2020 budget. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u47	What we will certainly have to discuss before and from now are measures for which I would like to count on the support of the honourable Member, for example: to increase the deduction, within IRS, for families with more than one child; to create good incentives for the emancipation of young people in order to create better conditions for them to be able to enter the labour market and to empower themselves from the family point of view;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u48	Go read our program!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u49	... and create incentives, either for the investment of companies or, in particular, for the investment of companies in the interior. These will be the subjects that will be on the agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you look carefully at the scope of the social agreement we have presented today, for the negotiation of a medium-term agreement on competitiveness and income, you will see that, among the different subjects, what we want to discuss is precisely to respond to your fundamental concern of having more productive companies, a more competitive economy, which can continue to grow in exports, as it has been growing, and continue to gain market share, as it has continued to gain. That is why, among all these points, are fundamental issues such as support for innovation, corporate taxation, business financing conditions and improving business context costs. So, Mr Rui Rio, there is something that is right: this government will always be here to be a friend of the economy. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u50	We know that only with a growing economy will we have more and better jobs and greater equality. The results we have had, with a sustained reduction in deficit and debt, with a sustained reduction in unemployment, with a continuous improvement in income and the reduction of inequalities, are due to the confidence that we have given investors to continue to invest, and they have responded positively and will certainly continue to respond. I am sure that, during this four-year term of office, you will be able to synchronise your concerns with the real time of what we are actually discussing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u51	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u52	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by making a comment on the words of Dr Rui Rio. Mr Rui Rio said several times, and I recorded the following: « This is factual, it is not political ». I wanted to tell you that what you did was even more than politics! [[PSD protests.]] When you come here to tell us that you are concerned about capital incomes and that is what measures the PSD's political choices, I mean that there is no more policy than this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] You want a fact? You know, 10 % of workers in Portugal are not out of poverty. This is a fact: 10 % of workers live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u53	They approved four budgets! Four budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u54	You want to know what politics is? It is the fact that the PSD has joined the PS to prevent changes to the labour legislation that they drew by wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Would you like another fact? Would you like to know another fact revealed this week, honourable Member? In Portugal, there are children who spend more than 40 hours a week on daycare. The honourable Member and his party joined the PS, even last Friday, to bring down the reduction in the working hours of those who work and have children up to three years. These are facts, this is politics! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] The way we look at the world defines our politics, and this could not be more distant! Mr Prime Minister, although we have been taking steps to combat poverty for four years, I must say that we are fully aware that Portugal still has 2 million people in a situation of social exclusion. In view of this, we continue to say that there is a need for legislative amendment. It hurt the Socialist Party and the right when, at the end of the last legislature, they opposed the law to assess the impact of poverty on all legislation. They did it wrong! And it hurts the government when it opposes amendments to the Labour Code and sends everything back to social consultation. We have learned over four years that the few progress we have achieved in Parliament has been achieved without waiting for social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u56	The Left Block will not be paralyzed, in this legislature, by an agreement that you do not know whether or how it will come about. There we will be to continue to fight and propose the reduction of working hours, the reconciliation of work and family life. There we will be to respond by shift workers, to combat precariousness, to ensure collective bargaining rules that allow for the increase of wages. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u57	But, Prime Minister today, I wanted to talk to you about health. Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with a higher prevalence of mental illness and psychopharmaceutical consumption. Today, at the end of this morning, he was in Parliament responsible for the National Mental Health Programme, which predicted that community teams with professionals in various locations, such as psychologists, psychiatrists and nurses, were operating in 2019. The Programme has done its work, everything is established. We are at the end of November and a single professional has not been hired for these teams. When will the National Mental Health Program be working? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u58	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u59	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the improvement of family income policy was also a decisive factor in restoring a climate of confidence in Portugal which allowed for increased investment, economic growth and employment growth. It was, in fact, a virtuous cycle that, today, I believe, almost everyone in Portugal, recognizes, except some recent Saudis from the idea of collective impoverishment as a factor of competitiveness. Today, we are all aware that, for Portugal to be competitive and for companies to be productive, it is essential to rely on knowledge. This means investing in education, training, lifelong learning, knowledge transfer, technological modernization and innovation—these are the essential factors of our economy's competitiveness. For this to happen, it is essential that the quality of work improve, with less precariousness and better wages, to allow the necessary talent to be fixed. We are not prisoners of anything, but, on the contrary, we believe that it is with social dialogue in the company, with the dynamisation of collective bargaining in each sector and with the development of social dialogue that we can make more and better progress on the path that we started just four years ago. It was on this basis that we presented to the social partners today a comprehensive agreement to improve productivity, competitiveness and income. We are no longer talking about the minimum wage, we are talking about all the salaries and, in particular, about the salaries of qualified young people, whether they are licensed or with specialized higher education, whether they are secondary students or vocational students. We must bet on valuing these incomes for all and we must do so not only here but also in the context of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for mental health, it is true that there is a delay in the execution of what had been defined for 2019. What I can tell you is that at the beginning of 2020 the Community teams will be launched, one per each ARS ( Regional Health Administration ), with a total investment of EUR 1 million, which is assured to start by the beginning of 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, since it was planned for 2019 that the Community teams were operating, but they are not and are only going to be in 2020. So they were late. Constantly, the huge health problem is that all decisions are delayed and all investment is delayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u63	The Parliament's Technical Unit of Budgetary Support has now concluded in its report something that the Left Block has been saying for a very long time: the biggest problem of the National Health Service is subordination. What's going on? Hospitals and other health units have neither budget nor contract autonomy. Of course, they do not close the doors to users, but they cannot adapt the structures to the response that they need to give to those same users. What's going on? Since the budget is not available at first, hospitals will always end up borrowing and making spending the worst way. It is no longer personal, but, after that, 260 million euros are spent on extraordinary hours, with those who are already very tired. There are no more vacancies, there is no exclusivity, but there are only payments for the provision of services to doctors, EUR 105 million, and this is only in one year. These are 2018 numbers. There is no money for analysis, for ultrasound machines that work, but then they spend EUR 500 million annually to contract complementary means of diagnosis to private people. In fact, this is a number that has been rising ever more every year since 2013. Since the National Health Service cannot plan and cannot contract, but also does not close the doors—and well—because it has to respond to people, it is becoming weak, indebted and does not have the robust structure that it needs to have. in fact, this reminds an old ad : « The cheap goes expensive ». I mean, you don't let yourself spend, but we end up spending more. in fact, the idea we have is that, at the moment, the biggest obstacle to efficient management of the National Health Service is called the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u65	We do not want to do the sectoral debate on the budget here today — we certainly want to get to a good place in this debate — but we have to ask what the government's strategy for this budget is. in this legislation, will you have an investment strategy or will we continue with a short-term strategy? Will it be more of the same subordination strategy, more of the same strategy of delaying urgent and structural investments? Well, in the last quarter of the year and even with a budget surplus, Mário Centeno holds 800 of the EUR 1000 million that is authorized to captivate. This is not good management, this is bad management! I give you a concrete example: on the Sintra Line, hundreds of thousands of users despair every day, because there are no trains, and we see nothing planned. When are we going to have new trains on the Sintra Line? How is it that a country that has a surplus, which gives EUR 850 million per year to the New Bank, does not have new trains on the Sintra Line? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u67	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let us start with the trains, because the answer is shorter and more concrete. We're not going to tell the story of the de-investment that we all know and, unfortunately, none of us ever saw a stand where you entered to buy trains. So when trains are ordered, it takes time until they are delivered. As you know, a competition has been launched for the regional trains of the CP, which is in progress and provides for 22 new compositions. With the electrification of the Douro Line, for example, up to the Marco de Canaveses, we were able to strengthen this year the West Line and we did not have many of the problems that occurred in the previous year in this Line. with regard to the Sintra Line, with the strengthening of the capacity of the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company (EMEF), there are currently about eight trains in repair, six of which are intended exclusively for the Sintra Line, in order to recover the service capacity that has been lost in that Line. Regarding the National Health Service, it is important not to forget that we are not at the zero point. We are at a point that is EUR 1800 million above the point where we were four years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there are shortcomings today, four years ago the deficiencies were much higher. And thanks to this recovery, today we have no more than 15 000 professionals in the National Health Service ; between 2018 and 2019, from last year to this year, we have more 235 000 consultations in primary health care, we have more 170 000 consultations in hospitals, we have more 23 000 surgeries in hospitals, we have less 2700 episodes of emergencies in hospitals thanks to the development of primary health care. And I'm just referring to last year's period for this year, because if we compare to what happened in 2015, only the increase in primary health care consultations is over 700,000, the increase in hospital consultations is over 186,000, and so on. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we have come not only to invest more in human resources and equipment but, above all, to ensure, with this, that the National Health Service increases its production in all segments. And at this moment, there is a set of hospitals, in various health regions, such as, in the North, both in São João, both in Santo António, and here near, either in Setúbal, or in Barreiro / Montijo, or, for example, in Évora, where production levels are growing every day, in all production lines. Well, this is the trajectory we have to maintain. What I would like to tell you is that, very soon, you will have a pleasant surprise,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u68	... with the programming for the legislature not only of the large investments, which are already known, in the five new hospitals, but also of the heavier investments in hospital units, in primary health care, in the evolution of the family health units and also in the sustained reduction of the level of subordination. As we all know, suborbing is a chronic reality that has to be eliminated and the commitment we have made was to schedule the elimination of this suborbing sustainably, because with suborbing there will never be good management. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u69	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u70	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would briefly like to bring you another subject. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs told the Diário de Noticias that Portugal, until the disclosure of news on the directive on transparency in the payment of taxes by multinationals, had not taken any position in the Council where this directive is being blocked. This means that until that date Portugal was in agreement with this blockade. It is not the tradition of Portugal to have this position, Portugal always wanted this transparency. I would therefore like to know who represented the Portuguese State — being financial matters, the Ministry of Finance had knowledge — and it is confirmed that until one week ago, Portugal was actually on the side of Luxembourg and Malta blocking a decision so that the directive on multinationals could move forward. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u71	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that you put this matter to me so that I can explain a huge misunderstanding that exists. Portugal has never been in a position to block this directive. There were two discussions, one more technical one, which was not worth bringing here, on which was the legal basis of this directive, and another politically relevant one, which was to know which was the grouping of the Council's training where it should be dealt with, i.e. in the ECOFIN, where it would require unanimity and there was a framework of unanimous approval, if in the Competitiveness Council, where it will be discussed tomorrow. Portugal's position was crucial for tomorrow to be discussed in the Competitiveness Council, and tomorrow we will be there. The Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition will be there to vote in favour of this directive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u73	Two years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u74	You've redistributed the folders!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u75	You now have the floor to put your questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u76	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are problems that cannot be postponed for longer. in public services in general they continue to lack workers, they continue to solve the problems of precariousness, with the drag of PREVPAP(Programa de Regularización Extraordinaryo dos Bondos Precarrios na Administración Públicas) and the limitations that have been imposed on them, they continue to solve career problems that have been dragged for decades, for example blatant in forces and security services, but also in justice, education, health, social security. There are schools with promised and designed works that never start or are completed, with the most obvious example of the problem of asbestos, which continues to be solved. Cultural agents continue to face threats from the results of the competitions that once again limit and withdraw support from the arts rather than strengthen them. in the productive sectors, the problems of the fishermen of the art of the siege, who continue to be prevented from fishing and arms with financial taxes which may probably dictate the end of the activity to many of them. We could add many other examples of problems that need a solution and that the government continues to delay, but we will focus on the health sector. Mr. Prime Minister, it is with great concern that the SNS ( National Health Service ) is witnessing on a daily basis not only by private group holders who are interested in the drainage of billions of euros to sustain their growth, but also by those who, allegedly concerned with the inadequacy of the public service, have never accepted the creation of the SNS against the interests installed in health. And what does the government do? It administratively blocks the recruitment of new professionals and devalues professionally and salaryly those that exist; it does not guarantee adequate working conditions in the units of the SNS; subordination is responsible, inter alia, for not acquiring new equipment; the closure and concentration of services increasingly hinder access to health care. Consider the example of the pediatrics service at Garcia de Orta Hospital. unlike the solutions that are imposed, which are to create the conditions so that doctors do not go out to the private, the option seems to be that of the escape forward, opting for concentration. In other words, according to information that has come to us, the possibility of joining pediatricians of the hospitals of the Setúbal peninsula will be studied in Almada, creating an even greater problem for families of the most distant municipalities of Almada. Mr. Prime Minister, good intentions are not enough, we need to take action. The best way to end the SNS is to drag the problem out. How much longer will we wait to ensure the professionals needed to operate the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u77	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u78	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I thank you for your question. In fact, we can list many shortcomings, but it only makes sense to list the inadequacies if we frame them in the course we are doing. It is true that there are cultural agents who are dissatisfied with the results of the competition, but it must be taken into account that the support for the arts between 2015 and 2019 increased 83 %. This latter two-year invitation to tender increased by 17 % the amounts to be allocated, but fortunately there were many more competitors than before and, therefore, there are also, as in all competitions, those who benefit and those who do not benefit from the reinforcement. Now, there was no cut, on the contrary, there was a reinforcement. You'll tell me you need to keep investing more. Of course, that's why we're here, to keep investing more. There are problems in the security forces, of course, and so Mr. Minister of Internal Administration met with all the PSP trade unions, with the professional associations of the Republican National Guard and set a negotiating agenda to discuss a set of subjects that are fundamental to the professionals of our security forces. in health, we have today more than 15 000 professionals than we had four years ago. The honourable Member will say-CL to me that they are insufficient. Because they are and, therefore, is now open a competition for specialists, we will open a contest to increase the number of trainers, so that the Medical Order can also extend the recognition of the ability to train specialists so that we can continue to have more specialists where they are missing. That is why, too, we want to discuss with professionals, in order to create better conditions for full dedication within the framework of the National Health Service. But we cannot look at the National Health Service and limit ourselves to wanting to do more than that, we have to do differently in order to serve better. The example of emergencies is a significant case. It is not about concentrating, on the contrary, about deconcentrating. The high priority we defined was to strengthen primary health care, increasing the valences that can be provided in primary health care, and this is absolutely decisive. As you know, the decision was not simply to close, during the night, the pediatric emergencies of the Garcia de Orta Hospital, it was to extend until midnight the period of operation of permanent care in primary health care in Almada and the Seixal. And in the first weekend that this worked there was not a single child who had not been cared for even one child who needed to be referred to hospital care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even during the last weekend, only one child had to be referred to hospital care. What does that mean? It means that the generality of these children did not need to be cared for in hospital emergencies, but, with advantage, they can be treated more closely, with greater attention, closer to their homes, in primary health care units. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This must be the priority, that is why we have to go, under the penalty of not having a more efficient management of the National Health Service, reserving hospital intervention for the most differentiated care only in hospital units can be ensured but ensuring, with greater proximity, to populations, through the primary health care network, the largest number of valences possible, so that the care is closer, with more care and with less costs for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u79	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, I was unable to see a concrete answer to a concrete problem, to a concrete question that I put, in particular, whether 'yes' or 'no' there will be a concentration of services, as I said here. But, Prime Minister, the Portuguese do not understand why, whenever it comes to their rights, their living conditions, the need for progress towards ensuring a better future, there are always arguments that there is no money and there is no State budget that supports such measures, while whenever it comes to economic groups, speculators, those who accumulate millions of profits, if they always forgive anything of what they should pay. We have still seen this type of reasoning again for the possible replacement of the VAT rate (tax on value added) of electricity in 6 %. Before the CFP appeared with this proposal, which it has defended to think of the workers, the people, our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, there were soon those who cried out “here d’el rey, that this is not acceptable”, insofar as it would cost 700 million to the State budget and it would be a disaster for the public accounts. Because we want to ask some questions about the other side of the currency of this fairer fiscal policy that we are defending. Mr Prime Minister does not question when he sees large economic groups making fortunes in Portugal and paying their taxes in the Netherlands, Luxembourg or other countries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u81	Yeah, there's no doubt about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u82	...because they pay less or even nothing there? Does it not question the injustice of seeing the vast majority of the people pay their taxes in Portugal, and then let the large economic groups choose the places where they pay less or nothing? We have no reason to be indignant when we see these large economic groups take out of the country tax money that should pay here and what is so lacking? Mr. Prime Minister, this situation does not happen by chance. It happens because our law leaves and we want to end this scandal. Companies that develop their activity in Portugal, which make their profits in Portugal, have to pay their taxes here and cannot escape them either to the Netherlands, Luxembourg or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u84	Will the government or will not agree with the CFP on this concern we are presenting here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u85	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u86	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, we have defended, and we continue to defend, that it is essential, at European level, that there be a harmonisation of tax bases to prevent and combat tax dumping within the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u87	We have argued within the European Union that it is increasingly important that there is a global action, in particular with regard to the digital economy giants, who seek to associate the dematerialization of their activity also with the dematerialization of their contribution obligation. That is also why we believe that it is essential that a strong European Union exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u88	Good luck! Good luck!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u89	We regret that the CFP does not accompany us in this concern, because it will certainly be easier to resolve the issues posed by a strong European Union than in isolation at the level of each of the countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u90	But the Union doesn't want...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u91	Luckily, we're making a way for you to move forward. It was with great satisfaction that we have come to include the strategic agenda of the new committee, which today elects, precisely these advances in the area of greater justice in the taxation of companies at European level, and that is where we have to work. in the same way, there are important advances within the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) so that this can happen. I'd like to say, to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u92	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u93	Mr President, I will now conclude. ... that we follow the concerns of the need to reduce electricity costs and energy costs in general. That is why we have been working, and that is why, thanks to all the measures we have been adopting, the energy cost has fallen 8, 3 % since 2016 so far; that is why, only in the first half of this year, the energy cost has already fallen 4, 1 %. This is how we must continue to work because, if we reduce the cost of the tariff, we also reduce the cost of what each Portuguese pays for VAT on that tariff. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u94	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you today a few questions about health, not only because it is a very important issue for all Portuguese people, and certainly also for Mr Prime Minister, but because some of the PS officials, including their parliamentary leader, recognized that several reports of "some failures" were made every day — I think you used this expression, which I will not qualify for — and that there was a need for action. So I think it is worth discussing these measures here in Parliament. Looking forward to some examples, which over the years have often been given, about how the national health system is working, began to ask you a question. in the JN, and in several media agencies today, is cited a study that says that, contrary to what is often thought, who is using health insurance—so, a system that gives access to the private sector and the social sector—are not those who have the most but, before, the middle class, the middle-low class and the lower class. [[PCP protests.]] It refers to the same study that about 31% of the population already has health insurance, that 72% of the policies are middle class and low class and that there is a reason for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u96	They're more vulnerable, they're more prone to deception.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u97	The reason for this is, above all, the fact that, in the public system, they do not find health in time and time. That is, and translating, Mr. Prime Minister : who can, making sacrifices, pay a health insurance, go to other systems, especially social and private; who can't, wait and despair in the SNS. I ask Mr. Prime Minister a question that is constructive, giving solutions and explaining, because this study explains the obvious: whoever has money, does not need to use insurance, because he knows that if he has an affliction, he has money to pay. It is precisely those who have less money that make more sacrifices, because they know they may need them. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u98	It would therefore leave Mr Prime Minister a very concrete question. Public servants today have an option at their disposal that we can technically discuss whether or not it is insurance. It will not be, however, from the user's point of view, there is a monthly benefit and, instead, there is the possibility of going to the private system and to the social sector, the exchange of a symbolic price. Public servants have this option; the generality of Portuguese does not have that option. I ask the Prime Minister if the Government is to open this option to all Portuguese with sustainability and responsibility so that everyone can have access to the ADSE system, regardless of whether they are public servants or private employees. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u99	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u100	Mr President, Mrs Cecília Meireles, over the past four years we have made a great effort of replacement after the cuts in investment in the National Health Service : it is more EUR 1800 million per year; it is more than 15 000 professionals than those who existed; it is more than 100 new family health units; it is a set of five major hospitals that are currently in the process of launching, in order to be executed throughout the legislature. [[CH's laughs.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] This is not just about more people or more spending, it is about the fact that, with more people and better spending, it has increased production in the National Health Service. That is, it increased the number of consultations provided at primary health care level, the number of consultations provided at hospitals and the number of surgeries. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] Only last year, during the same period, we have 23 000 more surgeries; we have 170 000 hospital consultations; we have 235 000 consultations in primary health care. That is, the National Health Service is doing more consultations and surgeries than it was last year, and much more than it was four years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the way, Mrs. Member, is not to reinvest or privatize again, is to comply with and enforce what is contained in the new Health Bases Law, against which the CDS voted, as it had already, in the early 1990s, sought to empty the project of the National Health Service. Now, we believe that the National Universal Health Service, tendingly free and general, is effectively the best condition for having a National Health Service for all and not only for those who do not have the conditions to have health insurance or who do not have the conditions to or need insurance to pay their health. No, we want health care for everyone, in equal circumstances and therefore we believe in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards ADSE, Mrs Deputy, as you know, with the reform that has been made, the State today does not contribute to ADSE. ADSE is a health system for public servants, as there are n health systems of other employee sets, and the State Budget in no way contributes to ADSE. Therefore, Madam Member, the evolution we see is that, definitely, ADSE can be properly mutualised, so that it is managed entirely and exclusively by its beneficiaries and taxpayers, who are the civil servants, with the freedom to manage the future of ADSE. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u101	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP and Mrs Cecilia Meireles continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true, indeed, that ADSE is today — it has not always been that way — a system that lives with the contributions of those who pay for it. The question I put to you was that there are some Portuguese who have the right to discount ADSE and receive a consideration, and the generality of the Portuguese does not see that right recognised. What I ask you is what is the explanation for there are some Portuguese who have this right, which are those who are civil servants, and there are others who do not. With regard to what you said about the de-investment, Prime Minister, you could fail urgent surgeries, operations that are cancelled when the patient is already on the block, of team leaders who say they are not responsible for what may happen in emergencies. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] But I'm not going to tell you about any of this. I am going to tell you from this very obvious fact: if what Mr. Prime Minister says is true—there are now more means, which are now money—then why, for the first time, there are more than 50 000 users who do not have access to the surgical procedure within the guaranteed maximum response times? If Mr. Prime Minister says that there are now more means and more money, then how is it possible that the system is working worse? What I ask you, Prime Minister, is: after all, what measures will be taken to finally improve the national health system? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u103	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u104	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, first of all, the guaranteed average times remain stable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u105	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u106	... despite two very important amendments. First, as you know, in the previous government and still in the time when Dr. Adalberto Campos Fernandes was Minister of Health, the average waiting times were reduced administratively, which means that today the average waiting times are shorter and more demanding than they were before. This means that the same person waiting for the provision of a service in the national health system, before, would be...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u107	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u108	...to meet the waiting time and is now out of time for the waiting time. Nevertheless, there has been stability. Then there is a second reality, which is very important: in a health system, there is a process and a chain. If, today, we have more consultations in primary health care, we will increase the number of people who will apply for additional examinations; there are more people with hospital consultations, there will be more people to whom surgery is prescribed. In other words, improved accessibility necessarily increases the number of people requesting treatment or intervention at the subsequent stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u109	Oh, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u110	These two phenomena explain that there is some tension with regard to waiting times, but if a comparative analysis is made, they are essentially stable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u111	Mrs Cecilia Meireles. Although the Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, the honourable Member's question will remain to be answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u112	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister can certainly use some time that he still has to give the answer to ADSE. I — and the CDS, of course — will continue to insist on this matter. I give you just one example, which is extreme but that is not even less true or less real for the people who live it. Hospital Padre Américo, cardiology consultation, normal priority—waiting time: 1472 days. Mr. Prime Minister may tell people who are 1472 days waiting for a cardiology consultation in normal priority that your waiting time is stable, but I think it will be a weak comfort! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u113	To put questions by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the past legislature, the NAP has managed to materialize in law the general feeling of Portuguese in animal protection with the approval of Law No 20 / 2019, which determines the end of the use of wild animals in circuses and which includes programmes for requalification of workers. As you know, in democracy there are shared responsibilities and, in particular, it is up to Parliament to legislate and it is up to the government to regulate the law. The government had 6 months to regulate the law, the deadline ended in August and, until it does so, the legislation does not enter into force, does not take effect. Mr. Prime Minister, not to regulate this law means to continue to exploit and keep in prison life animals who have not committed any crime. Mr. Prime Minister, it's time to open the cages. I ask you: when is the publication of the rules of this law? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u115	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u116	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies, you are absolutely right. The only explanation I can give you is that it is legislation already adopted at the end of the legislature. As you know, the deadline for regulation ended at a full summer and pre-election stage, in which the government was already having a small legislative capacity, but we are quick to count on regulating what is urgent to regulate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u117	Mr André Silva continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u118	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the clarifications. We'll be careful. The last few weeks have been particularly evident to expose the pressure to which the National Health Service is subject, with almost daily episodes that feed feelings of insecurity and dissatisfaction in the populations. Cases such as the night closure of the pediatric emergency of Garcia de Orta Hospital or the lack of doctors in the Faro and Portimão emergencies, not only constitute a very serious and unacceptable failure in the provision of health care to which the State has become bound, as are a trophy for those who, unlike us, do not mind having a two-speed health policy dependent on the economic capabilities of the users. Nor is it known today that the subscription of private health insurance is already made by nearly 3 million people, the equivalent of 31% of the population, with special incidence in the areas of Faro, Setúbal and Lisboa and Vale do Tejo, precisely where the SNS response presents higher waiting times and where the lack of family doctors is most evident. Mr. Prime Minister, we agree that it is necessary to ensure efficient management of human resources; however, cases such as those mentioned here indicate obvious shortcomings in assessing the real needs of Portuguese hospitals. What I ask you, in particular, is whether you will revoke the order of 15 days ago, which prevents the entities of the Ministry of Health from increasing the number of workers compared to 2019, or whether you will continue to allow the feeling of insecurity to grow and, with it, the speech against the National Health Service. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u119	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question you have raised. I'm not going to repeat, actually, I'm going to repeat... I've already said three times, but we should insist on the subject: we haven't cut, we've increased. We have an additional EUR 1800 million invested in the National Health Service, we have an additional 15,000 professionals in the National Health Service, and that is what has made it possible to increase consultations on primary health care, hospital health care and to increase surgeries by hundreds of thousands. from last year to this year, there were more 23 000 surgeries, plus 170 000 hospital consultations, plus two hundred and...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u121	That's so many! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u122	Yeah, it's so many. Exactly. But I tell you already: there are more than 235 000 consultations in primary health care. This is the reality, which is often distorted. A little while ago, I did not have the number in mind, but I take advantage to say that the example given earlier by Mrs Cecilia Meireles is completely out of date. in the hospital that reported last October for heart surgery, the waiting time had already been reduced by more than half...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u123	It's not surgery, it's consultations!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u124	...and it was 593 days ago. The waiting time for consultations was already half the number you mentioned here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the trajectory that we will maintain: continue to invest to continue to create a National Health Service that serves Portuguese and Portuguese better every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u125	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u126	Mr President, Prime Minister, we do not dispute that there has been an increase in investment in the National Health Service, but the truth is that it has increased the subscription of private health insurance, the waiting times are higher and a dispatch, 15 days ago, to prevent the entities of the Ministry of Health from increasing the number of workers. Changing the subject, Mr. Prime Minister, at the request of the Municipal Chamber of Grândola, with the convivence of the CCDR ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development) and APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) were disaggregated from the National Ecological Network areas so that it would be possible to build a huge luxury hotel project in Troy. It turns out that these disaggregated areas are located in Community Importance Sites of the São Paulo Estuary, which should have already been classified as the Special Conservation Zone, non-compliance which has already deserved a conviction to Portugal by the European Court of Justice in September of this year, if we have brought here three times. The Environmental Impact Study of this project is currently under consideration in APA, where it can be read that the area concerned has habitats with a "very high or extremely high ecological value, some being considered additionally priority by the Habitats Directive". In view of this, the environmental impact study has been defined in the light of the importance of ecological systems. That this project will have, and I quote, « very significant negative impacts » and « will not be possible to mitigate impacts », but that « the implementation of compensation measures is expected to be necessary ». Again, this study seems to have been prepared to be approved by APA as if it was possible to compensate for the destruction of habitats with high European importance and protection. Mr. Prime Minister, it can't be worth everything! An airport in full estuary of the Tejo, dredgings in full estuary of the Sado, intensive olives in protected sites of Community interest and now— cherry at the top of the cake! — luxury hotels that sweep rare species and habitats!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u127	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u128	If this project is approved by APA, there is no hope for this Ministry of the Environment, Prime Minister, because it is proof that everything is worth everything in the name of a supposed economic development. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u129	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u130	Mr President, I believe that no one is calling into question the technical autonomy and competence of APA. Perhaps, unless we are talking about various enterprises, the information I have is that APA has already issued, on 8 August of this year, the Environmental Impact Declaration, being a favorable Environmental Impact Declaration conditioned to the non-implementation of new autonomous underground captures, the promotion and articulation with the entity responsible for the remodeling of ETAR (Residual Water Treatment Station) of Troy, by the commitment of the renewable energy use method and by the full protection of donor and Zimbral habitats and also by the biodiversity management programme. So the APA has already spoken. This is the information I have and now the license is for the Municipal Chamber of Grândola. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u131	It's The Greens' turn. To put questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, I begin with the numbers of poverty, not to speak of the poor children of the capital who care so much about the PSD, but to talk about real poverty, de facto poverty, of the poverty that we are actually concerned about.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u133	All right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u134	Mr. Prime Minister, the numbers also indicate that poverty is increasing among the people who work. One in 10 workers lives below the poverty line and, among the mentioned causes, we have low wages, but also work precariousness and, above all, abuse of the use of temporary employment contracts. And in this case, Prime Minister, the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) should play an important role. The question is whether there is the Government's intention to provide the Act (Working Conditions Authority) with the means necessary to be able to respond to its tasks and, at the same time, to put a brake on unacceptable abuse and made outside the law which is being found in relation to the use of temporary employment contracts. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to express concern about the situation of public services in general and, in particular, of health services, which threaten to enter into complete ruin if the government does not take action anymore. This is because if things are as they are today, imagine, then how will they get when those usual flu epidemic peaks arrive. At that time, the situation will probably be out of control. So, Prime Minister, on health matters, the Greens think it is time for the government to "put your hands on the mass" seriously, and now! You don't have to tell me for the fourth time that there is more investment, we all know that, but we also know that the investment is being insufficient, as is being verified. Mr. Prime Minister, during the last half-year debate, the Greens confronted the government with the legal diploma that prevents the regulator from giving green light to Montijo airport, if there is no favourable view of all potentially affected cameras. As we know, both the City Council of the Sixal and the City Council of Moita have looked unfavorable to the construction of the airport. Mr Prime Minister told us that the government would respect all the legal precepts. What I ask you is whether the Government is considering amending Decree-Law No 186/2007 in order to go over the decisions of the chambers that appeared to be unfavorable, because that would be absolutely unacceptable. We would like Mr President to assure us that there will be no change to this diploma in order to adulterate the rules laid down, from the outset with regard to the relevance of the opinions of the municipal chambers covered by this procedure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u136	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. With regard to the last issue, I must say that it is currently under consideration in the ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), ANAC will do the proper assessment of the law and we will see what happens accordingly. With regard to poverty at work, there is something absolutely central. Today, of course, there are two variables on which we must act: on the one hand, on the amount of income and on the other, on the other hand, in the fight against precariousness. We have already reinforced the inspection with 40 new inspectors from the internal competition, and in January 80 new inspectors from the external competition will enter into office. And as we have always said, it is necessary to strengthen the control of the fight against precariousness in order to follow the legislative amendment which entered into force on day 1. Now, as we all know, having the poverty threshold was set at €501 and being the national minimum wage of €600, which makes there people who, being working, do not have an income above the poverty threshold is the fact that they do not benefit from the salary for 12 months per year, and therefore there is an excess of precariousness. So we have to change this situation. But we also need to change the income situation, because what we found was that last year, for example, the level of poverty threshold increased by €34 per month, as a result of the estimate that the INE made a large increase in the average wage. Thirty-four euros per month! In order to understand this well, in previous years, the increase had been of 15 €, 17 €, 18 €, no more than this. I believe that €34, given the series we know, is even the greatest ever increase in the level of poverty threshold and that is good news because it translates a very significant increase in the average wage. But the increase in the poverty threshold by €34 corresponded to an increase of €23 in the national minimum wage in that year, which means that, for all who were close to the poverty threshold, the increase was not enough to cover this rise. We must therefore combat precariousness, but we must continue to increase, as we have been significantly doing the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u137	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u138	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, good on the airport, if the case is with ANAC, I must assume that the Government does not intend to amend the decree, but, if it is not, please deny me. Another issue, Prime Minister : we have had a war for many years on account of asbestos and now we have had the information that the asbestos folder will cease to be in the Ministry of the Environment and pass on to the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Prime Minister, do you confirm this transfer from Ministry? It was important to understand the reasons for this decision. And now I would like to ask you if you think that the Greens have reason to be pleased that the asbestos paste goes to the Ministry of Finance. We believe that it is not and that it is perhaps a way of definitely burying the matter. Finally — and I shall finish — Mr Prime Minister, we have noted with pleasure his words when he said that investment in rail is one of the major objectives that the country has to be able to achieve. It has happened that we have recently been confronted with news that Portugal's Infrastructure has cancelled or suspended 18 works from the Railway 2020 programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u139	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, what's going on? Do you confirm this information? That is how, with delays and suspensions, is this plan being implemented?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u142	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u143	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, telegraphically, that time is little, first, there is no transfer of competence. As you know, the Directorate-General for Heritage is that it manages the state heritage as a whole. After the technical definition phase, after the mobilisation of financial resources, it is now up to the Environment Fund to implement. Well, the one who can execute is the one who manages the equipment. So what the Ministry of Finance is going to do is run.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u144	It's who's got the keys to the trunk!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u145	in this case, the bau is even the Ministry of the Environment, not the Ministry of Finance. Finally, on the question of rail, such as the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, has already had the opportunity to clarify, there has been no cancellation, nor has there been any postponement decision. There was simply a set of vicissitudes in the procurement process which resulted in delays in execution. But delays do not correspond to will, they do not correspond to any cancellation, nor to any delay decision. There was simply delay in the vicissitudes that the contracting processes today have, which, in fact, must merit a deep reflection of all political actors on the need to expedite the legal framework of public procurement, if we want to effectively be able to comply with the investment programmes that we have before us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u146	It is Mr Ventura's turn to ask questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, do not fail to be ashamed to hear the Left Block talk about health and now come to regret the state of a country where you have to wait more than a thousand days to have a consultation, when you have been four years to point out to you the failures it faced in health. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a very direct question: will you, or will you not, apologize to all the police, hundreds, who, this week, sent us bills of purchase of material that they made with their own money? [[At the moment, the speaker displayed documents.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u149	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I have no excuse to ask for the simple reason that I have not said what the honourable Member has said. When the question was put to me, I replied that your informant was bad, because when you asked me the question, you said that people were obliged. Well, no one's obliged! I did not say that people did not buy — there were people who actually bought. [[At the moment, the CH Member, André Ventura, again displayed documents.]] I didn't say they didn't buy! I said they weren't forced to buy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u150	If you don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u151	There is a judgment that is not done by me, and I hope it is not by itself either, but by the proper chain of command — a security force is not an anarchic organization, but an organization that has its own command — which sets the technical standards for the material necessary for each post, for each agent, for each operational situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u152	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u153	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, that is not what Mr Prime Minister said, it was not the conclusions that the Portuguese have drawn and certainly not the conclusions that the police have drawn. last week, Mr Prime Minister boasted that he had presented a big plan against precariousness — the Portuguese have heard and we have heard. I want to ask you, eyes in your eyes, whether you have, or not, weaknesses in your office, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u154	You've raised the precaution!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u155	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u156	Mr. President, Mr. Member, surely the most precarious I am,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...as my contract is four years old! Secondly, as you know, the law of precariousness does not apply to the offices of government members. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u157	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u158	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have learned today that you do not mind having a weakness in your office,... [[PS protests.]] ... when he presents to this House plans to combat precariousness. Here are the names of all, Prime Minister. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a document.]] These are people, lives that are here. But this is also the government that has the record of travel and stays expenses. A government that's so big that the ministers' chairs can't even fit into the government bench to be here! At the same time as that happens, half of the electricity bill we pay corresponds to taxes, people die waiting for consultations and police pay their material, even if Mr. Prime Minister does not admit it! I will not ask you any more questions, Prime Minister, for one reason: why not answer! That is why I am going to leave this challenge to you: you will be able to pass the debates from 15 years to monthly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u159	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u160	Don't do it, Prime Minister! You know why? It's not for me, nor for any of the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u161	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u162	It is because it will go through the greatest democratic shame: to run away from the debate! That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u163	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u164	Mr. President, Mr. André Ventura, the cabinet legislation was revised in 2012 and the directors and deputies of the cabinets... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs. Deputy, stay calm! [[PS laughter.]] Counsellors and cabinet assistants are necessarily persons of the political confidence of government members...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u165	What about the drivers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u166	... and therefore its functions shall be strictly associated with the maintenance of the functions of the members of the Government. Bridge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u167	What about the drivers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u168	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u169	with regard to the Prime Minister's office, I found that an absolutely sdruxual situation was going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u170	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u171	Mr President, I would like to apologize to you, but I will reply, because there are matters on which I cannot leave Mr. André Ventura with no answer. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u172	But the time regulation is for everyone. Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u173	in the Office of the Prime Minister, there was the situation of any staff member in the absence of a staff member, from PSP officers who served in the Office to permanent officials of the official residence, to be counted as a member of the Office. On my own initiative, it has now been created, within the framework of the General Secretariat of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, a division proper to the official residence of the Prime Minister, so that civil servants serving in the official residence are placed there, which do not depend on political confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u174	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u175	They are officials of the State, administrative or auxiliary, and whose stability is permanent and must not depend on the competence or will of the Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is absurd that I have to do every year, as I have done, an office to appoint who is in the office or to provide any auxiliary service at the Prime Minister's official residence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u176	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u177	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has already fixed the minimum wage alone and now it seems that it also wants to fix the wages of the other workers, in particular of the newly licensed workers, alone. It is an example of how this government wants to control everything. It has already indicated — I do not know whether this was part of today's Economic and Social Council agenda — that minimum wage increases will have to be 3 % and that, in return for these increases, some tax benefits will be granted to negotiate with employers' confederations. But, Prime Minister, you don't need to negotiate. The solution is in your hands, because you know well that, in order to increase, for example, the salary of a newly licensed woman who earns 1500 € gross per month, you just have to lower the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) from that licensee 1, 8 percentage points, or even less than that. So, Prime Minister, why does he not do what he is responsible for and is in his competences and lowers the IRS, simplifies taxes and frees these people from tax juice?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u178	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u179	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, we will do both. Already this year, the Portuguese will pay less EUR 1 billion of IRS, thanks to the set of measures we have taken to tax-degrading work incomes within IRS. with regard to wages, the minimum national wage is fixed by decree by the government and what we did was listen to the social partners before fixing. As for the other salaries, the government does not fix it, but it must seek a policy that favours its growth. It is not fair that, despite the reduction in the tax burden on labour income, we remain far from the European Union's average in terms of the weight of wages in GDP (gross domestic product ). This is a difference of about 4 % between the European average and the national average. Now, the economy is happily growing and it is fair that the incomes of the economy are equally distributed—of course, for those who invest their capital in businesses, but also for those who, with their work, generate the incomes of the capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u180	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u181	Mr President, Prime Minister, we know that it is not acceptable to individual freedom of choice, especially in public services, but even an orthodox socialist who considers that the state must control everything cannot completely ignore the data of its own official bodies. in the report released this week by the CNE ( National Council for Education ), are cited eight examples of excellence and pedagogical innovation in schools. In particular, in one of them, in Algodres furnaces, which from here I greet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u182	It looks like Viva Portugal from RTP ( Radio and Television from Portugal )!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u183	...I am not surprised that, with the autonomy given to them, if you have done excellent things. But if a family lives in Vale de Azares — a name, in this case, prophetic — they cannot send their children to the Algodres Furnaces Group which has had such good results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u185	Yes, Mr. President, I conclude now. Therefore, we consider the freedom of choice of schools optimal. Zero freedom of choice for students and families is bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u186	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u187	I'm done now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u188	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u189	These examples of the benefits of freedom of choice — and could give many more — say that it is time to finally abandon ideological prejudices and adopt freedom of choice in these systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u190	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u191	Mr. President, Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo, you are wrong! I am even a defender of freedom of choice. That is why I want universal public services, so that everyone can even have the freedom to choose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u192	It's the time of the Book. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, in order to encourage birth, should invest in the first child or invest in the last child and still understand how a check of €60 for the second is an incentive for birth. Would it not be more obvious that a real incentive would go through the effective increase of the national minimum wage to the 900 €, until the end of this legislation? Would it not be obvious that a real incentive was the existence of free daycare from four months of age? It would also not be a real incentive to increase subsidies, which range between €18 and €100, what is absolutely miserable?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u195	Mr President, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, studies show that in Portugal the desired fertility is beyond what fertility is realized. That is, families are having fewer children than those who actually want to. So we need to create conditions so that families can have the freedom to have the children they really want. Now, this implies an integrated action. Firstly, it implies stability: stability in work and stability in housing. the priority given to affordable lease and contract stability policies. But it also implies creating better conditions. Therefore, we have proposals to increase the tax deduction based on the number of children, the generalization of pre-school to all children from three years old and the relaunching of the effort for the existence of more day care centres not only to increase supply, but also to create better conditions of accessibility. As you know, day care centers are already free on certain income steps. And what we now propose is another measure that joins all of these — which must be seen in an integrated way — which is the creation of a universal complement-creche for all families from the second child. That is why it is not isolated but integrated into all these measures that we have planned to create better conditions so that we can increase the birth rate in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u197	I call on the Bureau to distribute a document, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u198	Mrs. Deputy, is this about the conduct of the work? It's just that we're finishing up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u199	Mr President, I waited calmly, precisely not to interrupt any parliamentary group, but as Mr Prime Minister was kind enough to answer me by saying that I had mentioned a wrong data, I went to consult the Internet, I printed the document where that data was and I liked to have it distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u200	If you have a document to distribute, please send it to the Bureau, which will be circulated by the Bureau. But don't take any more time, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u201	But can I explain what the document is?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u202	We got to the end of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u203	Of course, Mr. President. It is only to correct what was certainly a lapse of Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u204	We've reached the end of today's agenda. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u207	To what effect, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u208	For the same purpose invoked by Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u209	Will you ask the Bureau to reply to Mrs Cecilia Meireles? Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u210	No, Mr President, I would not do that because I know that the Rules of Procedure do not permit it. It is, yes, to also deliver a document...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u211	Mr. Prime Minister, send this document to the Bureau that it will be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u212	... to demonstrate that the waiting time for cardiology consultation at the Hospital Padre Américo is currently 593 days and not 1395 days, as Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-27.u213	We have thus concluded this meeting with the distribution of Mr. Members, tomorrow, the plenary meeting will start at 3 p.m., and the agenda is called on Government No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), about the health situation in Portugal. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
