ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. of today's agenda is the appeal to the Government No 31 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — On the sustainability of social security and respect for working life under Article 227. the Rules of Procedure. Before we start the work, Mr Duarte Pacheco will read the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law No 206 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to amend the requirements for access and exercise of the qualified expert activity for the energy certification and technical installation and maintenance of buildings and systems, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 207 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition, transposing Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369, which drops to 1. the Commission. I also refer to the Bill No 1238 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei, which falls to 7. the Commission. Finally, I refer to Resolution Projects Nos 2210 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government maintain support for clubs participating in national tests and that they have to move from or to autonomous regions, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2211 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the participation of the continuous infusion system of insulin ( SPCI ) for control of diabetes mellitus for older than 18 years, which falls to 9. the Commission, 2212 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Availability of means necessary for the operation of research vessels, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2213 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Determines the end of public support for superintensive permanent agricultural crops, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2214 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reactivate the Observatory for Agricultural Markets and Agri-Food Imports, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2215 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to support the dairy sector, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2216 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government draw up and implement a management plan for species and habitats in the Ria Formosa Natural Park, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2217 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promptly decide to classify the building of the former Savoaria and Perfumaria Trust Factory, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2218 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the improvement of road links to the Eco Parque do Revão, 2219 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to defend and promote the assembly as a system of great ecological and economic value, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2220 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government compensate the Avelino Mateus Ferreira family in the same manner as the fire victims of 15 and 16 October 2017, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2221 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of legislative and regulatory measures aimed at Portuguese elderly people living abroad and immigrants who are in absolute shortage of livelihoods or who show enormous fragility, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2222 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reinstate officials of aviation pilots and pilots specialties who, during the period 1988-1992, have been slaughtered in the permanent framework of the Air Force, at its request, because they have not been granted a change to the reserve situation or unlimited licence, which falls to 3. the Commission, 2223 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify EN225, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2224 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Paris, 2225 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Germany, 2226 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government work towards the maintenance of the Local Social Intervention Networks and Social Assistance and Monitoring Services, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2227 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Promotion of training in the area of life support and resuscitation, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 2228 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government suspend the competitive procedure concerning the extension of the outer sea and the maritime accessibility of the port of Legions, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I know you've lived difficult times in Georgia, but you've survived and we're very happy about that. I don't know if what scares me most is Mr. Duarte Pacheco's breath reading this file...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u4	It's a lot of exercise!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u5	Train for it! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u6	... or the fact that there are so many initiatives at a time when the schedules are already closed until the end of the legislature. And against me, because there are some initiatives by the President of the Assembly of the Republic for Mr President's travels. Let us then start the debate on the appeal to the Government on the sustainability of social security and respect for working life. To open the debate, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the last State budget was negotiated, the Left Block was beaten by measures of justice for those who have a full working life. We had already made some progress together: we have resumed the law that annually updates pensions and broadens its scope; we have made extraordinary increases in lower pensions and we have valued the solidarity complement for the elderly; together we have made a regime for the very long contributions careers, which has already enabled 26,389 workers, who started working when they were children, access to a full pension, without any penalty, from the age of 60. But, as I said in the last Budget, we included a rule to ensure a little more justice for workers who, at the age of 60, are 40 or more discounted. This group of workers did not end with all the penalties, as we wanted, but the Budget defined that from this year of 2019 they would no longer be applied the sustainability cut, which permanently withdraws, until the end of life, 14, 7 % to the value of a pension. in a pension of 600 €, ending this cut means more 88 € per month; in a pension of 800 €, it is more 117 € per month, each month. What was written in the Budget is clear, and I quote: « The new scheme(...) covers the elimination of the sustainability factor for pensioners who meet the condition that, at least 60 years of age, they have at least 40 years of contributing career, as follows: from 1 January 2019, for pensioners aged 63 or more ; from 1 October 2019, for all pensioners aged 60 or more ». This was not, however, the only compromise that was established in the Budget. We have always said that the end of the sustainability cut, which unjustly removes a part of the pension to which you have paid an entire life, should be extended to other workers. It is not justified, for example, that a worker with the same years of discount and age but of the public sector, i.e. from the General Pension Board, maintain the same penalty that we have already abolished for workers in the private sector. It is not justified that anyone who accedes to the reform because of the long-term unemployment scheme, i.e. from a scheme specifically designed to allow those who do not get employment to be without social protection, is sentenced to a 15 % pension for the rest of their lives when they retire, for example, to 63, 64 or up to 65 years. It is not justified either — and this is perhaps even more unsustainable — that the workers of the professions considered to be worn out quickly, such as mine workers or stoneworkers, when they access the retirement age that the law recognises them as fair, according to the penosity of their work, take with a cut of 14, 7 % in the pension, less 100 € per month in a pension of 650 €, for the rest of their life. It is that if these workers of the special schemes, of the professions that blow them up with their bodies and dramatically shorten their average life expectancy—I said it here, but I repeat that I do not forget that the stone worker who, in the committee, told us "the 66 years and 7 months are not, for us, the legal age of reform, the age of the death certificate"—are reformed before the age of 66 years and 7 months is because the law has now been determined, because it recognises the weariness. To continue to consider that, since they have a legal age of reform that the law itself anticipated, they are asking for early reform in relation to the law, it is a serious mistake that must even be corrected. It was the consideration of these situations that led us to include in the State Budget for 2019 another standard, the wording of which was the possible result of the compromise between perspectives which, as is known, depart from different views, so that in the first half of this year, the Government could respond precisely to these situations. I quote the article in the State budget: « until the end of 1. the financial year 2019, the Government shall submit the legislative projects necessary to extend the new pension access age flexibility scheme (...) to the convergent scheme ». Furthermore, the compatibility of the new scheme — this new regime which ends with the sustainability factor, with this cut — with the specific pension access schemes, which naturally include those I mentioned, should be assessed. Now, the end of the first semester is a day and we understand that this is the time to ensure that this commitment is realized and to know the exact terms in which it will be done by the government. It is not too much to remember that the so-called "sustainability cut" has nothing to do with the sustainability of social security. When the so-called "sustainability factor" was created, this was the counterpart of the retirement age to be fixed at age 65. There was only that foundation. The age of the reform was fixed, it did not increase, and the so-called ‘sustainability factor’ — which, in fact, had a value in that year in which it was created, of 0, 56 %, half a percentage point — had as justification the need to impact the effects of increased average life expectancy, on a regime where the legal age of reform did not vary. The right has changed this dimension of the pension scheme in Portugal and since 2013 there is no fixed retirement age. Therefore, the sustainability court has ceased to be even legitimate in the light of the arguments it has created and has simply become a groundless penalty for pensioners who are already penalized by the annual increase in the retirement age and by the penalty of 0, 5 % per month that they lack for that legal age. That's why this cut should end. We've already started putting an end to him and we need him to end up for who is still the victim of this injustice. In this regard, I would like to remind you that, when we discussed in this plenary on 8 February, a proposal from the Bloc to put an end to the cut-off of sustainability for the workers of the piereiras, the lavaries of mines and the bottom of the mines, which was said to us by the Socialist Party: "We cannot approve this law at this time, because it is necessary to give time for the government to fulfil the commitment it has taken, safeguarding the interests of these workers and their legitimate concerns, which we share and to which we will give, of course, answer". It was said by a member of the Socialist Party. This time is coming to an end, and the question we are asking, with this appeal, is whether these workers will finally have an answer through the diploma that the Government has presented until the end of this first half, i.e. whether they will extend the end of the sustainability court and whether the same will happen to the workers of the General Pension Board and those of the long-term unemployment scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u9	We know that the right to pension and social security does not mean only having fair laws, it also means that services work and that the system is robust in its sustainability. We all receive daily desperate appeals from people who have been waiting for months for their pension requirement to be analyzed and write to us about these unbearable delays and how they feel neglected by the lack of response, about the humiliation they feel they are placed in limited situations. We know the root of this problem. In the years of austerity and the Government of the PSD and the CDS, social security lost one third of its workers: 33 %. Only at the National Pension Centre was 40 % the percentage of lost workers. However, we know that the number of workers in these services started to be recovered by 8 %, which is clearly far from the levels that existed before these brute cuts and what is needed to meet the needs. As the Minister announced this morning, there are still more than 40 000 applications pending at the National Pension Centre and these 40 000 people need an answer. The Assembly of the Republic approved last month a draft resolution of the Left Block recommending three concrete measures to the Government: firstly, the conclusion of the competitive procedure for recruiting workers to the National Pension Centre and the extension of the period of validity of the reservation of that recruitment; secondly, the allocation of provisional pensions in all situations where the beneficiary is no longer working, then making the retroactive agreement; and thirdly, the organization of stays of social security technicians in some of the countries with the highest Portuguese emigration, to deal with the problem of pensions for these workers. We know that some of these measures are under way, but all of them are urgent, and in force. Responding to people who have been waiting for so long must be an absolute priority. We also know that for this to be possible, the system needs to be balanced. Over the past few years, the social security system has now had a positive balance, including the transfers from the State budget, which were regulated during the period of austerity. Contributions increased by around EUR 800 million per year as a result of increased employment. The additional to the IMI ( municipal property tax) on luxury assets and the provision of part of the IRC ( income tax for legal persons) for the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund ( FEFSS ) made it possible to bring to this Fund only this year EUR 250 million. At the end of this Legislation, this Fund will have an additional EUR 4 billion and its long sustainability for 19 years. If the social security accounts are better, I owe it to the policy of returns of income and the choices of this majority, in the antics of the politics of the cut, the impoverishment and ghosts of the devils that come there. That's another reason, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one more reason, Minister, to turn these good results into concrete improvements in people's lives, starting with these people who have worked their entire lives, who have the right to be respected and who have the right to a pension without cuts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u10	Mr José António Vieira da Silva spoke for the opening of the debate on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the second time in this Parliament, it is the Government asked about the sustainability of social security. This is, for the 21st Constitutional Government, an overview of the indisputable importance of social, public and universal security in modern democracies and of the commitment of this Executive to the defence and guarantee of it. In the context of the economic growth stagnation or recession, to which social security and, in particular, its pension system are subject, a new structural pressure is now added, resulting from demographic developments. the desired increase in average life expectancy, to the historically low fertility and birth rates, has added, in recent times, a dynamics of emigration only comparable to that recorded in the middle of the last century, strongly penalizing the balance of the system. The austerity measures beyond the troika exposed the recessive effects, with negative impacts, both on the revenue of contributions and on the expenditure on unemployment benefits. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having arrived here a few months after the end of this Parliament, it is perhaps time to see that another way was possible, a path that, at the announced court of paid pensions, would respond with the return of pension updates and its increase; a path that, before the devaluation of social minimum policies, reaffirmed in practice its importance as a tool of social cohesion for the elderly, children, people with disabilities; a path that, to the continuing threat of the privatization of social security, countered confidence in a public, universal and sustainable system. That was the alternative way that this government and this majority have chosen. And that's why we got here today. It was the economic policy of this government, based on an effective recovery of family income, which also enabled the recovery of employment and wages and therefore the growth of contributions and contributions to social security. Until April, we saw a similar growth in social security contributions of 8, 4 %, plus EUR 443 million, which had not occurred for almost two decades. We have reoriented economic policy to a new model of growth and economic development, more intensive in knowledge and technology, focused on productivity, creativity and innovation, which are essential tools for improving the competitiveness of companies and the country. To this end, we focused on active employment policies in young people and long-term and long-term unemployed with low levels of qualification and on the inclusion of the most remote groups of the labour market, combating job disencouragement and distancing. We reactivated the adult training and qualification program, valuing vocational education and lifelong learning. We promote the dynamization of social consultation and collective bargaining. We have chosen a path to strengthening the quality of employment, decent wages and combating instability and precarious work. All of this, as a whole, is also built on the solidity of the social contract and the sustainability of social security, without the need for so-called 'creative' responses — as some of those who in the past had political responsibilities in the system now cry out — or catastrophic studies that do no more than undermine credibility in the public social security system and suggest their privatization. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of public social security is also inseparable from the defense of its triple sustainability: social sustainability, ensuring that it is a pillar of cohesion and of combating inequalities and poverty; economic sustainability, ensuring that the social protection network is not an uncomplicated cost to competitiveness, but rather an instrument for reducing risks and supporting innovation; and financial sustainability, ensuring a strategic balance between responsibilities and resources, which is an element of cohesion between generations. It was in this line that, in these four years: we have reformed the contribution regime for self-employed workers, ensuring this group of workers more social protection and allowing them to build contributing careers that in the future do not condemn them to minimum pensions; we have delineated the early reforms for those who started their career as a child or young, without jeopardising the rights of everyone to the possibilities of anticipation that the law has already permitted; we continue the way of convergence of the general social security regimes and the General Pension Fund, initiated in 2005 ; we have built more transparent communication and information channels with citizens, such as pension simulators. It is with these measures that this reformist management of the system, and not with cuts or disruptions, builds the sustainability of social security. At the end of the legislature, or close to it, we also left a guarantee for the future: we added in more than a decade, for the second half of the 2020, the time horizon of the first negative social security balances and therefore of possible application or use of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security ; and we added in almost two decades, probably in more than that, by the end of the 2040s, a possible temporary exhaustion of the use of the EFSS if that were to happen. To this end, they contributed the Government's decisions to strengthen the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, with the creation of alternative sources of financing resulting from the allocation to the FEFSS of additional revenue to the IMI, as well as 0, 5 percentage points per year up to 2 points in 2021 of the IRC's revenue. Thus, by 2021, the Stabilisation Fund will be strengthened by more than EUR 1000 million as a result of this diversification of funding sources. Over the three years from 2015 to 2018, the value of the Stabilisation Fund increased by around EUR 3 billion, which enabled the Fund to exceed for the first time EUR 18 billion, corresponding to 9 % of national GDP (gross domestic product). These values reflect the Government's commitment to strengthening the sustainability of social security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not hide the difficulties and recognize the risks. The social security system always needs reformist and permanent management. Portugal was one of the first countries to associate the age of reform with demographic developments. That is a path we must pursue. The financing of the pension system, based on labour contributions, should combine this structural dimension with the diversity of funding sources. The demographic challenge will benefit from the active management of current migration flows. To capture and include new and more qualified immigration movements and support the return of those who have recently or in older migration vacancies, including the Luso-descendants, as proposed by the Return Programme, will enable us all to combat the demographic crisis and continue to promote the development of the Portuguese economy and society. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Few areas of our collective life will be as direct and intimately linked to the generality of the population as social security. With millions of social benefits paid monthly, social security accompanies people throughout the lifeline, from before birth to after death. Social security is therefore an essential component of the social contract and a fundamental instrument of equity and social cohesion. And therefore for this government, its sustainability will never be a simple option, but, yes, an inalienable choice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u12	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the debate phase, beginning with requests for clarification from Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block. To this end, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr José Moura Soeiro, we thank the Block on the Left for bringing the issue of social security to plenary, which will allow — in fact, it has already allowed, in these first speeches — a balance sheet on this area during the debate this afternoon. This balance sheet allows us to demonstrate the success of the path we have made and the enormous distance to which we are from, with a fragile, impoverished social security and the vertigo of the risk of privatization. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] First of all, we have demonstrated that, contrary to what the right said and enrolled in its program and in the famous Stability Plan for this legislature — normally, they do not like this to mean, but it is public, it is written and, indeed, I have it here — it was not necessary to cut pensions, it was not necessary to ceiling,... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ...it was not necessary to initiate the process of dismantling our social security, of social security for all Portuguese, to transform it into social security for some Portuguese. The PSD and CDS have shaken the confidence of Portuguese in the system, when they proposed a cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions and when they entered the electoral programme that would privatize part of their discounts, which we have always refused. We have always rejected that path and today we are sure that it was deeply wrong and that the Socialist Party and this majority were on the right path. They therefore do not count on the Socialist Party for adventures with reforms of the Portuguese. We have regularly heard calls for broad consensus on reform in this area from the PSD. For let me tell you again here this afternoon that no dialogue on this subject is possible that it is supposed to be cut, that it is supposed to privatise and that it is supposed to be ceiling.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u14	We haven't even talked yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u15	Secondly, jobs, jobs, jobs. In the face of the disaster that struck the labour market in the previous legislation, the right acted like the fox in the henhouse and, instead of using public policies to combat unemployment and poor employment, the few jobs and poorly paid that caused short-term problems in social security, the right preferred to use this reduction of revenues as an argument to go to the bone of social security, launching panic to promote a privatization agenda. We did the opposite, as Mr. Minister here has already remembered. We have done so because the Socialist Party understands that it is not possible to solve the financial or social sustainability of the pension system if the economy is moving back, if there is no employment and decent wages, because without them there are no contributions and the deficits arise, and labour instability also prevents many Portuguese people from having children, which is essential, in parallel with emigration, to reverse our demographic trend. That is why the main enemies of the sustainability of our social security are those who advocate labour flexibility, who have been against the regularization of precariousness, who have opposed the increase in wages and who have refused to diversify the sources of social security. We know where they are, they sit in this House, in the PSD and CDS benches. We will reverse this path against the right-wing opinion. We have made a historic increase in the national minimum wage and we know that the average wage has been rising consistently, increasing consistently, all this in a framework of trust and investment, which has allowed unemployment to reach the lowest value in the last month of the last 28 years, I repeat, the lowest value of the last 28 years! This does not only improve people's lives, it improves, above all, the sustainability of social security. That is the third and last point I would like to highlight before I raise a question. There is no solid social security without jobs in quality and quantity and that is why we have to debate the public policies integrated into the context of these two axes, because there is one without the other and, by improving incomes, by combating unemployment, we are defending the sustainability of social security. That is why social security today has a healthy, sustainable financial situation, with a historical number of contributions and contributions and with a Social Security Stabilisation Fund, the ultimate guarantor of pension payments when for the first time exceeding EUR 18 billion, almost 9 % of GDP. We have shown that there are no inevitability when we discuss the model of financing social security, there are political options, options that do not ignore the dynamics of qualifications, technological innovation, aging, but are options that some reject because they are only obsessed with mandatory discounts for private funds from banks and insurers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u16	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u17	I shall conclude by asking Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block if this path we have come to do and this wish we have come to highlight also deserves the confidence of the Left Block and if this is the direction that best defends our social security against the right offensive, with the certainty that we have not done everything, we certainly have not done everything, but we have done so much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u18	Mr Soeiro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u19	Mr. President, I answer yes. In fact, we are doing this debate precisely because we want to see the commitments that have been negotiated in the majority and that have been entered into in the State budget. When we negotiated the Budget, we decided that we would end the penalty of the sustainability factor for a group of workers, those who at the age of 60 are 40 years of discounts. This will occur in a phased way: a first group at the beginning of the year and a second group from October of this year. It was also included in the Budget the commitment that in the first half of this year the Government would present the legislative projects — this is how it is in the Budget — to implement the extension of the end of the sustainability factor to the General Board of Submissions and to make this new regime compatible with the sustainability factor for this group of workers with special schemes. These are the terms of the compromise. I recall precisely Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro's words when, in Parliament, we discussed in February a petition submitted by the workers of the quarry and in which we jointly celebrated a fair measure that we agreed on in the Budget, which was to acknowledge that his profession was of rapid wear. What we said at that time was that, in addition to recognizing the rapid wear, we had to stop penalizing the sustainability factor, because it makes no sense to say, at the same time, that those workers can retire earlier than the legal age of reform based on the penosity of their work and then say that, although they can be reformed earlier, they will be penalized by 15 %, as if they were asking for early reform. It's an inconsistency! Faced with the proposal of the Left Block, the Socialist Party, by the voice of Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, said precisely the following: "We must let the Government now fulfil the commitment it has made, safeguarding the interests of these workers..." — the workers of the prairie who were attending the debate — "...and their legitimate concerns, which we share and which we will give, of course, answer. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, I agree with the diagnosis that you have made about what differs us from the PSD and the CDS and from the logic of cutting, privatization and capitalization for the private of the public social security system; I also agree that what you are defending social security is employment, combating precariousness, increasing wages, guaranteeing robust contributions, a functioning labour market, and of course also diversifying sources, which we have also been doing in this legislature, but this must be translated into people's specific lives. The question I am asking the Government and the honourable Member is how this commitment which has been entered into in the State budget will be fulfilled, whether it will be extended, or not — the deadline is ending, we are for days, and whether these workers who have just been expected to be included in the debate we have made here. That is a question to which we do not have to answer. at this moment, anyone who has to answer is precisely the government that is present in the Chamber. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u20	We applied for clarification to Minister José António Vieira da Silva. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u21	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Secretary of State, Mr. Members, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said here that the end of the pensioner sustainability factor that at the age of 60 at least 40 years of age has been clearly registered in the State budget for 2019, and still well. It has been a very important step for thousands of people in our country, because it helps to restore some justice to those who have worked a whole life, often with too much effort. We believe, therefore, that we have already said this, that it was a very important step for pensioners in our country. In addition, the compatibility with special schemes such as the General Pension Fund or the rapid wear or other professions, with regard to the end of the sustainability factor, was a commitment by the Government to realize by the end of the first half of this year, i.e. from here to very few days. It should be stressed here that during this legislature there has also been recognition of some professions of rapid wear, recognition that it was difficult and achieved with much struggle by the workers, such as the recognition of the profession of rapid wear of workers of the lavaries, equal to that of the bottom of the mine, or of the quarries, who for several decades had come asking for this recognition, because it responds to health problems at work, but also responds to a question of reform and justice for those who worked in such painful situations throughout life. Therefore, it is a recognition of the appreciation that has been asked for a long time ago. However, and despite what has already moved forward, it is a struggle that still has a way to go. And what is missing is exactly the end of the cut caused by the sustainability factor for these workers. We have already said here that the rapid wear professions have a specific age of reform, that is, we are not here dealing with anticipations of the legal age of the reform and, therefore, penalties are still absolutely unjustifiable obstacles, so it doesn't make any sense these people continue to suffer the cut-off of the sustainability factor. In these cases, we speak of a double penalty, which is unfair and unjustified. And in many cases we speak of less than 100 euros, which make all the difference for these people, when they finally have a job that was recognized as being of rapid wear. It is now necessary to recognize this even when they have access to reform. Mr Minister, the question is very concrete : it was included in the State budget for 2019, in relation to the end of the cut-off of the sustainability factor, which would be further evaluated, and I quote « the compatibility of the new regime with specific pension access schemes ». In other words, they have been created with a view to the schemes of workers with rapid wear and tear professions. What is important to clarify in this debate, also about these workers, is when the government expects to end this inconsistency, with this injustice in relation to workers who have been so unjust throughout their lives and who have now had the legitimate expectation that by a few days, at the end of June, this situation would have been regulated or had any legislative initiative. The question is very specific: when will the government present the end of the sustainability cut for these professions? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u22	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, today, the Left Block has scheduled this debate to give the government a « draw of ears» for failure in government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u24	We're not old enough for that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u25	... « draw ears» already given last week by the PCP, which came here to schedule a debate to talk about chaos in public services. It is good to say that these schedules do not exempt the Left Block or the PCP from responsibility for this governance,... [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] ...because it was always with the support of the Socialist Party, but also of the Left Block and the PCP, that the government has been ruling in sight for four years. The PSD has repeatedly called attention to the lack of prudence and wisdom with which certain policies were being adopted, but it has always been guaranteed by the government that there was no impact on public administration, and I refer to the reversal to 35 hours of work. Now, after four years of denying the obvious, the government, because it is election time, has recognized that it has failed and, of course, less hours require more workers and therefore promises to hire more public officials in the future. We have seen this film, Mr President. Members: promises before the elections and then cuts to follow the elections! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u26	You must be talking about the holiday allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u27	It is important to say that there was a lack of caution in adopting certain policies, because, Minister, what is required of the Government is that it respond to the Portuguese. And what is happening in social security is everything but guaranteeing a workable life. We have been talking about this for a long time now—even this morning we have had a chance to talk about it. The delay in the payment of retirement pensions is all the less respect for a workable life, it is all the less respect for the fundamental rights of workers who have had years, had a whole working life to contribute and who now do not receive what they are entitled to. And it is not only the delay in the payment of pension pensions, it is also other pensions. In fact, the Ombudsman's own report draws attention to the case of survival pensions. According to the same report, there are family aggregates who lose the only element that contributed with their incomes to the support of that aggregate, and sometimes with minor children, and even these do not have the survival pension paid in time and time, making them live a life with many difficulties, either the family, or the people who are close to them, who often have to be helping them. That is what the report says. Moreover, Mr Minister, and the words are not mine: the report says that, apart from these situations, there are others that have even more serious contours, covered by some perverseness. And why is that? Because the State not only pays late the value of pensions, as it does not pay interest and makes an unfair charge at IRS. The incomes that are related to the past are taxed as if they were from that year. This provokes what? A tremendous social injustice, because this taxation will lead to what the workers had and are entitled to be lower than the values that are due them. That is why, Minister, I ask you to respond to pensioners as we have come to this situation, and it is not worth shooting at the past, because it is not talking about the past that solves the problems. The Government has been in office for four years and I remember that from 2017 to 2018 delays have increased by more than 300 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u29	Therefore, Mr Minister, even though I say that the resources were already higher than the demand, the fact is that the question I asked you this morning, very directly, about ensuring that pensioners who, as you had promised, as it is well remembered, were not able to respond to your situation, unfortunately, by the end of this month. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u30	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, we are now witnessing a list of already a little campaign, of what was the trajectory of the implementation by this Government of several measures in the social field. The first thing that needs to be said — and I think it was also important to hear this recognition from the Government — is that there is a constant, which is transversal to the government in several areas, but that in social security it has been manifestly serious and often dramatic consequences for many citizens: it is that this majority and the government, first, announce and promise measures and then think and try to prepare for their implementation. First, the end of the moderation rates is announced, then it is thought that, perhaps, they are not convenient, they have to study the subject better and, after all, it will not be soon, it will be gradual. First, social benefits are announced, but then it becomes clear that the system is not prepared to implement them. In the case of social benefits, Mr Minister, this was clearly serious because the trajectory of this government throughout the legislature was aggravated by the State's inability to respond to citizens. It's been a long time, Minister! If it had not always been the Government and this majority were to maintain a position of arrogance and even deafness in relation to the signs that came to them, including through the opposition, it would have prepared and reversed this role in a timely manner. The truth is that we realized that only in 2018 measures began to be implemented to try to block what was already known to everyone: the government was slow to pay for the first social benefits, often with very dramatic consequences for the citizens. That is why, Minister, I know that we do not like to remember it, but it is a fact, you do not have to like it and in the case of the Minister this is particularly serious, because, with your political experience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u33	...it is someone who entered the Ministry of Social Security as a secretary of state, in government functions in the past century—it is probably the most experienced member of the government—it is particularly shocking that it has not been faster to reverse the State's disability, the Ministry's inability and to try to maintain what was absolutely essential, that it was to respond to these citizens who are waiting for the first social benefits. And, on this matter, the Left Block has hardly spoken. The fact is that we have entered the subject of social security sustainability and, on this subject, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to confront it with the following: we know the Government's forecasts for the development of social security sustainability, in addition, in the report annexed to the State budget proposal, is this scenario, which shows, in the Government's perspective, an improvement but that some entities such as the ESC (Economic and Social Council), for example, also state that it is unclear, in particular because it does not demonstrate on what projections and alternatives it is based on. The ESC says that despite the demographic developments which are reported to be negative in this government report, it is nevertheless understandable that despite this clearly unfavourable demographic development for social security, the results of the exercise of the underlying projection point to an improvement of long-term financial perspectives. In this regard, studies have been submitted, in particular, by the Fundação Francisco Manuel dos Santos. We realize that government projections are based on European Union projections, especially on the first hypothesis of work, which is an optimistic hypothesis. What I wanted to ask you is whether the government is available to strengthen transparency. And to strengthen transparency means, as the ESC asks, to speak clearly about the projections in which it works.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u35	In conclusion, Mr Minister, we in the CDS always call for a transparent agreement with citizens, so that citizens can count on what they expect to take at the end of their contribution career, we ask: why do not promote savings in this area and create conditions, as the CDS has proposed, for a voluntary, public capitalisation system that can be accompanied by measures for companies, so that, by certainly not solving all problems because many citizens will not have the opportunity to save, we can at least create conditions for those in a position to do so that they can properly plan their future? I believe that it is a positive proposal from the CDS, as it has done, but unfortunately most of the time, it has been horrified with deafness, some arrogance and inability to open on the part of the government. We hope it can be reversed. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u36	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, it is important, in this debate, to begin by pointing out the progress made in social security, whether the three consecutive increases in pensions, whether the extension of family allowance and the steps taken in valuing long-term contribution careers, measures by which the CFP has been fighting for years and whose insistence has effectively allowed this legislation and this correlation of forces, to take place, benefiting workers, benefiting families and benefiting reformed. In addition, these advances also value social security itself because they value the rights guaranteed by the public, universal and solidarityary social security system and the relationship between workers and families with social security. It is also important to note in this debate that the evolution of social security contributions confirms what the CFP has said for years: that combating unemployment and precariousness, creating employment with rights and valuing wages are key factors for strengthening social security financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u39	... as well as the fight against debt and tax evasion and the diversification of sources of social security financing. Mr Minister, on this point, the CFP has already presented solutions for the diversification of sources of social security financing through a complementary contribution by companies which, by generating high levels of wealth, contribute little to social security, because they have few workers. It was important for the Government to take a concrete decision on this measure. We have also proposed and defended the right to reform without penalties, regardless of age, to those who have 40 years of discounts, because 40 years of contributions are a life of work and who worked a whole life must see this creation of wealth for the properly valued country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u41	We have also defended not only the elimination of the sustainability factor, the repositioning of the legal age of the reform over the 65 years, because the increase in the average life expectancy cannot be a pretext for withdrawing rights, but also concrete solutions for the long-term unemployed, as well as the correction of injustices for those who have been reformed in advance, with very severe penalties and that they would not have to be reformed at this time — a situation that needs to be corrected. It is also important, of course, to respond to those who are the consequences of delays and delays in the payment of pensions and social benefits, which we have placed several times and that we do not stop the bleeding of workers who have suffered social security over a number of years. Thousands of workers who have left social security and the result of this exit are also in delays and delays for pensions and social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u42	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u43	There are problems and injustices that still need to be answered and we need to know what the government wants to continue. The PCP has presented solutions. What way does the government want to solve these problems? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u44	The last request for clarification of this round lies with Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister will certainly agree with me if I say that social security, universal and solidarity, is a decisive element when we talk about the promotion of social justice and the distribution by all Portuguese of income generated in the country. This means that if measures are taken to preserve the public, universal and solidarityary nature of social security, we will be guaranteeing the promotion of social justice; otherwise, we will be close to the position of the previous government, which, on the pretext of ensuring the financial sustainability of social security and the need to reduce the deficit, has put the public social security system very fragile. This process of fragility, promoted by the previous Government, as it had previously done, not only seriously compromised the basis for financing social security, but also caused a significant reduction in the right to social security with particular seriousness, in particular among the unemployed, the elderly and the beneficiaries of non-contributory social benefits. As at the time, the Greens warned, and today we say once again, the problem of the public social security system does not lie with social benefits. The problem lies in the policies and guidelines that guide them. And the facts speak for you, if there are any doubts. When we compare the current situation with the situation left by the previous government, we will have to recognize a significant improvement in the financial situation of the public social security system. An improvement which results, on the one hand, from the growth of contributions and on the other from the decrease in expenditure with the social unemployment benefit, due, of course, to the decrease in the number of unemployed. But, Mr Minister, in our view, the path is still short and it requires us to look at the issues of birth and the demographic decline of our country, but also at the need to ensure the strengthening of the financing of the public social security system. And in this regard, the Greens consider, first and foremost, that it is necessary to diversify the sources of social security financing. For this reason, we have followed up with the proposals that have already been discussed here and which provide exactly a supplementary contribution from the companies that have the most profits, but which contribute little to social security, in view of the liquid wealth reflected at the level of net added value. In fact, these proposals would not only contribute to ensuring the financial sustainability of social security, as they still carried with them a concern of justice, since they would put the justice produced to contribute to the financing of the public social security system, while at the same time strengthening the sustainability of social security itself. It happens that the Socialist Party has joined the right to bring these proposals down and that, for that reason, they have not moved forward. Mr Prime Minister, in addition to the need to seek new forms of social security financing and the need to counter demographic pressures, which I believe is only possible with the promotion of birth, as I have already mentioned, there is another battle that needs to be stopped and which concerns the fight against fraud and tax evasion. As we know, avoidance and tax fraud are at worrying levels and continue to cause the breakdown of pensions. Now, considering that the Government has undertaken a strict assessment of the system's situation with a view to improving its sustainability, which would be seeking new forms of financing, but also in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, what I would like to know and what it would be important for the Minister at this time in the legislature to talk about what the government is doing about the work that the government itself has been developing with regard to avoidance and tax fraud, even because this matter was not the subject of any reference by the Minister in the initial intervention. That is why it was important to know what measures have been taken by the Government to combat fraud and tax evasion, and what assessment is now being made by the Government on these measures that have been promoted over the past three and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u47	In reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Pires, in fact, in all the changes that have been introduced into the social security system over the past few years, one of the privileged dimensions has been the one that has to do with greater justice in careers. I would like to reinforce here the importance of the adoption of legislation on the very long careers of contributions. at this moment, I can tell the House — I have already done so today, in committee — that so far since this legislation was adopted at the end of 2017, they have already benefited from this new form of access to the benefit without any penalty of more than 26 500 Portuguese workers. This is a good sign of how all these objectives of sustainability, cohesion and social balance can be compatible. The honourable Member has raised specific questions and I will answer them in a very concrete way. With regard to the enlargement provided for in the State Budget, to the convergent system of the Public Administration of the new system of early reforms without penalising the sustainability factor, the Government will begin tomorrow the assessment of a proposal to this end. This is a proposal that obviously equates, with some minor differences, the system that already exists for private sector workers and that has already allowed, in these few months, 800 new pensions without the penalty of the sustainability factor and that also equal to the public administration sector the non-criminalization regime for the sustainability factor for people who are 60 years old and 40 years of contributing careers in all identical forms. In relation to others, we are finishing the evaluation. The commitment of the State budget is slightly different, with a view to the convergence of regimes. It will be discussed tomorrow and then put to discussion, particularly with the unions, because this is a matter that requires it. We're finishing the technical evaluation. There are many and different situations, insofar as there are situations of possibility of anticipation and others of necessity of anticipation. But we are finishing the work and we will shortly present a proposal to that end. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, on the question of 35 hours in the Public Administration, spoke about the measures which were not considered and their effects. But if you look at the data already provided and you know very well, you will find that the difficulties in the social security system did not begin at 35 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u49	They got worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u50	On the contrary, they started well before that, when you put out of the social security system thousands of workers, being many tens, if not hundreds, linked to pension processing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, when we come to talk about the past and the measures taken, it is impossible not to speak of a government that lets out team heads, highly qualified technicians of the pension system, who take a long time to be replaced,... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ...and that he did it just because he had frozen the processing of pensions! It was just because of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u51	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u52	If the honourable Member carefully examined, even when the remaining workers worked 40 hours, the Ombudsman's report already pointed to excessive delays in the processing of pensions. It's obvious, and I never denied it, nor would I do it here, that the situation has worsened... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u53	Ah! What, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u54	There are, but they're Greens, and they're CDU!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u55	There's always something that existed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u56	But he got worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u57	There is the government's assumption of its responsibilities. We assume that there was indeed a serious situation in the processing of the first pension, and the Government has mobilized a set of human resources instruments and procedures to solve this problem, so that we are currently reaching historic maximums of pension processing. Only in 2019, the completed processes already exceed 105 000, which allows us to say that today the system has much more capacity to approve and process all requests that are made. The system is therefore, as I said clearly in the Commission today, in a very rapid process of recovering existing expectations. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, on these issues we spoke today at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, but I repeat what Mrs Clara Marques Mendes said. He called into question the projections made by the Ministry of Labour — they have not been made by me — and they are part of the State budget. But the methodologies are the same as you used! The problem is that when you used them, reality was so hard that they did not anticipate any imbalance, he was already present at the time they were ruling. That is why they had to make transfers from the State budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the same methodology that now allows to guarantee sustainability for many more years, contrary to what happened before! Then he had a fantastic idea, an excellent idea, which I share: that the State promotes an individual system of supplementary capitalization to which people can voluntarily adhere. I totally agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u58	They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u59	I just have to tell you, Mr, that this system has existed since 2008! If you don't know him, it's because you're being careless! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I could benefit from it already, sir! He paid 2 % or 4 % of his salary and would have an enhanced retirement pension at the end of his career. This system exists, it is used. Unfortunately, during the four years of your governance it has been completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u60	And it wasn't yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u61	Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to tell you that with regard to the diversification of sources of funding we agree, and the proof is that we are doing so with the additional to the IMI and the provision of the IRC. It is a way of extending funding sources to a significant amount. In 2021, it will be about EUR 1000 million that will increase to the current EUR 18 billion of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. Madam Member, there is one aspect in which we differ: no social security system in the whole world, which I know, can be managed without taking into account demographic changes and without making them reflect on the age of reform. The age of reform cannot be the same as when the average life expectancy was 65 years old! Today, the average life expectancy is about 20 more years, and this is a reality that is present in all social security systems. It would be irresponsible to think that, with 40 years of career, regardless of age, people were entitled to a full pension. This would mean — I have said several times — to increase the single social rate by five points. Is anyone available for this increase in the contribution burden? Or, then, it would be necessary to take pensions to even lower levels than, unfortunately, some of them have. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, in fact fraud and escape are a problem. This morning, in the Commission, I had the opportunity to show how in recent years, through a set of measures in the social security system, we have significantly increased the relationship between the contributions collected and those declared to almost 100 %. This does not mean that there is no avoidance — no one can say that one day it will end, but that debt formation has declined sharply in recent years. That is also what allows contributions to be growing at a different rate than has happened in recent decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u62	We move on to the second round of questions to Mr Minister, the first being Mr Fernando Manuel Barbosa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, in Portugal, are more than 700 000 workers performing duties on shifts or service scales. Work by shifts or scales, especially when it includes hours usually associated with social or family experiences, such as nighttime, weekends and holidays, causes an increase in psychological, biological, social and even family wear. In addition, a large part of these workers, although not recognised, play a rapidly worn-out profession which, when not quantified by the toughness of the profession, causes weariness due to the constant change in the so-called 'biological watch'. Recalling the recent words of the Minister regarding the average life expectancy, the known figures point out that these workers have an average life expectancy lower than normal, particularly because of the damage accumulated by the change in sleep and meals. Moreover, family and social changes resulting from the performance of work by shifts and scales lead to social and family isolation being also superior to normal. Only those who work for shifts, scales or nightwork know what it is to get home and everyone is already sleeping or, then, leave home before anyone wakes up. Only those who work for shifts, scales or nightwork know what it is like not to be with their children at school parties, on their birthdays, on Christmas, on the passage of year or on any other party. Only those who work in shifts know what it is to be working on weekends or nights while their family or friends have to endure their absence in these hours. The Left Block believes that it is the obligation of society, as a whole, to compensate these workers for the penosity that they have throughout their professional life, for their early aging, when they perform essential functions for all citizens, such as those who work in public transport, in the health sector and in so many others. We understand that it is of the most fundamental justice that these workers can see and compensate their efforts and extra wear not only in their professional life, but also when they have access to reform. I ask the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security if he does not think that these workers should be given the right to anticipate the reform without penalty, in time related to working time by shift, scale or night, in particular with the proposal of the Left Block for a reduction of two months for each year of work by shift or night, as should be taken into account for that calculation the proportion corresponding to the extraordinary work done by shift or night. The increase in costs that this measure may entail cannot serve as a pretext for failing to meet its justice. These costs must be borne both by society in a whole, or by the extra contribution from employers who use this scheme of employment as a way to compensate their workers for the dedication and exhaustion of those who contribute to the existence and success of these same employers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u64	Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, in order to finish this Parliament, we discussed the sustainability of social security. But whenever we talk here about the future of pensions there is a very active promotion of a noise that aims to fight people. In fact, Mr Minister did so at the beginning and the Socialist Party too. They accuse us of things we never said. But there is something that would require shame and shame! To whom he traded, wrote and forced the country to cut in pensions - it would require - at least, after four years, shame and shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u66	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u67	Madam Member, if you like, I can lend you the memorandum! Proving this willingness to fight people was the impediment on the part of some seats of the House when the PSD proposed a parliamentary committee that could discuss, transparently and accessible to all Portuguese, the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u69	So let us talk about choices and mediatism. For this government, social security and pensions, as in fact politics as a whole, are treated only when they come to say that they have things to give that they like the electorate. Sometimes, then, the Minister of Finance comes to deny, but it doesn't matter, because propaganda has already been made. [[PSD applause.]] As regards the promotion and sustainability of social security, then we recall the case of the additional IMI ( AIMI ). The Left Block, at the time when there were still no such crumbs, said: « We must lose the shame of going to the Portuguese for money». And Mr. Prime Minister said: "Then create the AIMI." But propaganda was not effective and then Prime Minister Antonio Costa came to resolve it, saying: « Quiet, it is a new tax, but its revenue will fully revert to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security ». Only not! IMI revenues are not fully reverting to the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. The PSD said so for more than a year and the Court of Auditors in December. The Public Finance Council said so last month. Now, of course, everyone is wrong, because the government denies it and the government knows it! Open... After all, it is the same government that says that the fault of the ranks for the citizen's card is people's, because if there were no people there were no ranks, and this is an unbeatable logic! Open... The Minister will say: "We have done a lot of things for sustainability, because economic growth has actually enabled positive balances in the system." All right, so let's be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u70	Now it's gonna start!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u71	The Minister was the one who, in fact, took this position longer. He knows that the public social security system is conditioned to variables that are uncontrollable, particularly during the demographic cycle or even economic growth, that he has come to the ride. It is sufficient to see that the State budget forecast a growth of 2, 2 %, which has already been revised downwards, and the Banco de Portugal has come to speak of 1, 7 %. In all these years, the Minister has, of course, seen high and low — low as the first deficits in the social security system. At this low point, Mr Minister acted: he cut. It is that our memory, Minister, does not begin only in 2011. Furthermore, your report on the sustainability of social security says that the social security system will fall into bankruptcy, at best in 2030, that is 11 years from now. [[PS protests.]] According to your account, someone 55 years of age today would no longer have a retirement pension coming from the system. It does not matter, Mr President, if it is another year, five years or ten years. These consecutive terms of validity - and this differs - to us - are not eligible for resignation for a political agent. There is a need for a thorough and sustained reform of the social security system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u72	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u73	Mr President, I conclude by saying that this reform must guarantee today's pensions and future pensions with the fair balance of the cost/benefit ratio for all those who have contributed before, who are now contributing and who will contribute in the future. The Minister continues to deny this need and has been sinking all proposals for transparency, sustainability and accountability. I ask, then, what did you do to guard the low moments, which you have already experienced? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u74	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, in fact, when we heard the PSD and the CDS talk about social security concerns we well know what they want, what they have done and the importance of what has been interrupted, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u77	We are talking about strengthening social security contributions today about interrupting a path that was imposed by the PSD and the CDS, which was unemployment, precariousness and emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u79	Today, the strengthening of social security contributions also demonstrates this, i.e., that it has been worth and worth moving away from the government's PSD and CDS and thus embarking on a path of reinstatement of rights and income. There were cuts in wages and there were replacements of wages, there were cuts in pensions and there was an increase in social support and an increase in pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u80	It is better to read the Memorandum, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u81	That is why this awkwardness of the PSD and CDS is that it does not comply with the path of replacement of rights, because for the PSD and CDS the cuts in pensions were not definitive; they were forever. [[PCP applause.]] So interrupting this path is also a sign that this path not only has to continue as it has to go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u83	Mr Minister, the importance of the increase in the minimum wage has already been mentioned here. This is not even questionable, and the CFP records it as very important, but we also say, Minister, that it is important to go further in the increase of the minimum wage to €850, as well as in the general increase of all wages in the public and in the private, because we continue to have a low-wage economic policy. And the strengthening of social security requires an increase in wages, because pensions will have a higher value if wages are higher and more valued, so the measures to be discussed under labour law are decisive. Mr Minister, when we propose the replacement of the payment of overtime, night and extra work, when we propose the extraordinary work without the cut that remains in force today in the public and in the private, when we propose the fixing of a shift allowance, when we propose the anticipation of the retirement age for shift workers, what we are doing is to value work and thereby to value social security. In the coming days, we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue, in which all the parliamentary groups sitting in this House will decide on it. And it is up to the PS — we do not count on the PSD or the CDS for this equation — to decide whether the path of replacement of rights and income should go further or whether to stop. on our part, we'll be here with proposals. It will not be because of the lack of proposals from the CFP that effective measures to combat precariousness will not be discussed, in anticipation of the reform for shift workers and the fight against precariousness. We'll be there to see how everyone will make their commitment. Ours will always be on the side of defending workers' rights and public, universal and solidarity-based social security. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u84	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD brought here the theme of reform, which would be a reform... We know that the reform of the PSD and CDS was the cut of 600 million euros per year in paid pensions,... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ... was the cut in solidarity supplement for the elderly, and it was such a fair reform in early retirement which led to cuts of more than 50 % in pensions for workers who applied for early retirement because they had no chance of employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u86	Better read the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u87	It was so serious that it forced us in this legislature to make specific legislation for the injured of Mota Soares, precisely the Minister for Social Security of the CDS and the PSD. We know and people know what the social security reforms of the PSD are. In fact, even on one of the specific issues that brings us here today — the workers of the quarry — when the Left Block presented to this plenary a bill to end the cutting of the sustainability factor for the workers who saw the rapid wear of their profession, did the PSD vote in favour of the project of the Left Block? He didn't vote! It was not by chance that this project was plummeted; it was also because of the PSD vote. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Here we spoke on the sustainability of the system. We know that what called into question the sustainability of the system was unemployment, emigration, low wages, precariousness. We do not ignore the fact that there is a demographic factor, but we know that, in the period of austerity, what called into question the sustainability of the system was precisely the economic policy of impoverishment. On the contrary, what has strengthened the sustainability of the system is an economic policy based on job creation. But we need to do much more in the recovery of wages and in the fight against precariousness. What has also improved the sustainability of the system has been the diversification of funding sources. And it is curious to note that the right was against the additional IMI—he said it was a persecution to the middle class and, after all, it was seen and the middle class corresponded to a very small group in Portuguese society that has luxury real estate—but at the moment this additional contribution of IMI is bringing into social security every year, EUR 50 million! [[PSD protests.]] And the provision of 1 % of the IRC for the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund is bringing social security into line every year, at least this year, about EUR 200 million, which is expected to be more for the year, because it will increase the percentage. We can go further in diversifying sources of social security financing. In addition, the Left Block has proposed that there should be a contribution only to large companies, excluding small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the bulk of the business fabric in Portugal. If large companies contribute with 0, 75 % of their net added value we will be able to bring more 300 million euros of revenue to social security each year, which would certainly be another source of funding, plus a sustainability guarantee mechanism that would also allow us to do justice. And it is about this justice that I am here to insist on: the Minister said that within days it would be discussed in the Council of Ministers a diploma to extend the reform regime, as it has been defined for social security, to the workers of the General Staff of Apogations. It is good news, because it is the realization of a concern that we have raised in the discussion of the State budget, when we guarantee this regime for social security and when we say that it has to cover not only the employees of the private sector, but also those of the public, in the same circumstances. But it is also necessary to look at the other schemes, in particular the long-term unemployment pension access scheme, the early-wear pension access scheme, because it makes no sense to penalise these two schemes, and look, as has already been said, for shift workers. It is a law that we are currently discussing in Parliament and we hope that, at the end of this legislative process, we can bring about justice for shift workers. I wanted to finish by referring to a letter sent to us yesterday on another dimension, which has to do with the answers to pension applications. We all know many situations, but we want to bring this example. This is the case of a worker whose wife died and who has been waiting for the daughter's survival pension for six months, 21 years old, as well as his survival pension. The General Pension Fund suggested that all data should be sent to the National Pension Centre and, at the moment, this worker faces many difficulties, precisely because he has a burden because of a loan that he has contracted according to his wife's treatments. It says in this letter: "I suppose computerised accounting will facilitate accounts and priority to dependents may be a criterion for processes entered on the same day. » It is precisely for cases like this, Minister, that...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u88	Sir, the Bureau, in this case myself, distracts me...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u89	Mr. President, I'm only gonna take another 10 seconds. It is precisely for cases like this, Mr Minister, that the allocation of the provisional pension and the fixing of more workers at the National Pension Centre is absolutely urgent. We did not want to forget this dimension in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u90	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u91	Mr President, Minister, with the intervention of the CFP we have advanced in strengthening the rights of children, of which we stand out: the freeness of school textbooks up to 12. the year; the freeness of school passes up to 12 years; the payment of pregnancy allowance for specific risks at 100 %; and the valuation of the amounts of family allowance and prenatal allowance. We value each of these measures, but we are not satisfied. We know that there is still much to do to ensure that all children have the right to full development, to healthy and balanced growth, to play. All children have the right to be happy. It is therefore necessary to move forward and not go back: to advance in the creation of a public network of daycare centres and in the universalization of access to the public school system for all children from three years old; to move forward in family conditions to monitor the growth of children, particularly through the end of the deregulation of working hours; to advance within 35 hours per week for the entire public and private sector; to advance in the strengthening of the rights of work by shift and night; to advance in the valorization of wages; and to advance in the universalization of family allowance and in the valorization of their amounts, instead of making election promises. Why does it not move forward now by strengthening the family allowance until its universalisation and pushing this issue forward? Why does it not advance with the opening of public day care centres to put an end to the high costs families bear with day care facilities? Why does it not end the deregulation of working hours? Why does not the 35-hour fixing be extended so that all parents can keep up with the growth of their children?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u93	These are some of the questions that families ask and for which they await the government's response. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u94	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u95	Mr President, Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the answers that the Minister gave to the PSD Parliamentary Group, we have been fully clarified: as regards the delay in the processing of pensions, the Government today declared itself incompetent to the Portuguese to resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u97	The Government had committed itself to resolving the problem by June, but the Government has acknowledged that the problem has worsened in these four years, with no capacity to solve the problem. It's good that this is clear to the Portuguese. In the government's guilt theory, Mr Minister, probably it is not the government's fault ; it is the fault of the people who went to the services to apply for the payment of their pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u98	Exactly! The problem is there are people! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u99	Mr Minister, with regard to transfers of the revenue from the IMI additional to the Social Security Stabilization Fund, as has already been said, in 2018 only 37 % of the total value of the revenue was transferred. As a PSD Member said here, for the second consecutive year the total amount charged for the additional IMI did not revert as it should. And as it was, I think, of a proposal from the Left Block, the Bloc gentlemen should be concerned about this rather than being concerned about what the PSD would possibly be doing. That is why you should be concerned and on this you should question the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u101	Last year, Mr Minister, EUR 50 million was transferred from IMI's additional revenue, but the total revenue charged with this tax was EUR 135, EUR 3 million. Therefore, there are about 85 million euros that the Ministry of Finance has captured and failed to transfer, in this year 2018, and the same has already happened in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u102	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u103	Mr Minister, the government has come to justify itself saying that these transfers do not occur because there is a need to make correct, but this theory does not come. It does not seem to us that this is due to correctness, because the value it is about to transfer is always almost twice the amount that is effectively transferred. Mr Minister, this seems to us to be a real captivating, much more than any other right. It is good for the Minister of Finance to say that it allows him to make such shines. Mr Minister, who protects the area, asked him to tell the Portuguese what the Government, the Minister and his guardianship are doing to ensure that these transfers return to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u104	To conclude this second round of questions to Mr Minister, you have the floor once again the CFP. Mr. João Oliveira, please. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Oliveira? I know I was getting some strategy tips at the last minute...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u105	Exactly, I was commenting with my comrade Paula Santos on some aspects of the debate. Mr President, Minister, for more than 15 years the workers of the prairie have fought for a specific regime of access to their reform, comparable to that of the miners. After almost 15 years of submission of bills in the Assembly of the Republic, by the PCP, it was finally possible, in the last State budget, to extend this special regime of access to early retirement, already applied to miners, also to workers of the quarry and mine workers. It was still necessary to overcome some difficulties in the regulation of the State budget decision, but this regulation was made, the form was created, many stone workers had already submitted their pension applications and the first answers began to arise. Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that one of the answers we have had access to, given a citizen of Vila Viçosa, leaves us some doubts about an issue which has been mentioned today, and which has to do with the application of the sustainability factor under this special regime for access to early retirement. Mr Minister, the question I would like to leave to you is very simple and it has to do with precisely this issue and with what results from penalties for these workers, who have a special system of access to early retirement determined on the basis of the special conditions of penosity of the profession they have exercised. As we all know, it was by decision of the former PSD Government / CDS and, in particular, of the responsibility of today's Mr Pedro Mota Soares, at the time Minister of Social Security, that these workers with special arrangements for access to early retirement became applied the sustainability factor for the purposes of access to pension. This meant, for these workers who have a special regime, that they have become considered penalisation rules that should not be applied to them because of the speciality of this early retirement regime they have access to. Mr Minister, the question I have to put to you has to do with this specific situation which has been identified, because, in a pension of € 624, the circumstance of a reduction of € 180 can only arise from the possible application of the sustainability factor for the purposes of access to the reform. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have indeed been given guidance to the services to ensure that the sustainability factor is applied to these special arrangements for access to early retirement or not which may justify a penalty of these. Of course, this worker has already refused to reform himself in these conditions, because it would mean a very sharp reduction in his living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u106	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. That is not why the regime we approved in the State budget was created. I would like to be able to give us an answer on this issue, also to pacify and reassure the thousands of workers who are currently waiting to respond to their pension applications in these situations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u108	You now have the floor to answer Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to group the issues and devote more attention to some of them. Indeed, Mr. Members, the early reform regime still has the sustainability factor, except in situations where the law required it to be removed. The commitment that exists, which is that of the Government, which will achieve it until the end of the legislature, is that this situation is reviewed so that workers who have won the right to early retirement are not unduly penalized with the application of the sustainability factor. The legislation is not yet produced in this respect, but this is the commitment that is entered into in the State budget and will be done. On the different issues that have been raised here, from different sectors, I would like to say that the social security system is a system of many different, almost infinite situations. We could almost theoretically define a regime for each profession and for each situation. Obviously, that is not possible. I believe that there will be good reasons for discussing, for example, the question of shiftwork, but there is also an absolutely fundamental issue that is to know that the set of reforms we want to develop are sustainable over time. It does not help to make all reforms at the same time and then have to paralyze them because the system does not have the conditions to support them. A number of steps have been taken and have been developed that I consider extremely important, in particular what I have already said about the long-term contribution careers, others in anticipation without penalty and other steps will have to be taken as we are evaluating and analyzing what is possible, ensuring the sustainability of the system and not sustainability at the expense of an indiscriminate increase in the contribution burden. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, brought here some questions whose density time does not allow me to deepen. The honourable Member said that the opposition benches, and eventually the government, put in your mouth things that you have never said. They may not have said it, but who wrote it, wrote it and sent it to the Constitutional Court, sent it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not know if they have ever said that, but they have proposed, not because of an issue of conjuncturality, but because of sustainability, the cut-off of pension payments is absolutely indisputable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u110	It wasn't true! It wasn't true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u111	He's here! It's yours! That is what is written in the sustainability report!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u112	I wish I could use my time with the calm possible. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is a lie I don't know why they gave the Constitutional Court — was it just to play? — all the work to evaluate this proposal and in such a way that it led them to lead it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u113	It was the PS that started!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u114	Negative balances!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u115	The proposal for cuts was sent to the Constitutional Court and on that there is no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u116	That's what's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u117	They can show the roles they want, but that is an indisputable truth. Was it to test the Constitutional Court? Was it to see if anyone accepted that there was a permanent and permanent cut, for reasons of sustainability, in paid pensions? You will clarify. Then, Mrs Deputy, I said something very serious here. I have to say that it is something of enormous gravity, coming from a Member of the Nation. I said here that the system, 10 years from now, in the 1930s, will go bankrupt. This is the first mistake: the system does not go bankrupt, the word 'failure' does not apply to the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The existence of imbalances does not mean bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u118	Negative balances! Negative balances!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u119	To say, as the honourable Member here said, a worker aged 55 years from now to 10 years will not be entitled to his retirement because there is no money to pay it, it is not just an act of ignorance, it is an act of irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u120	Negative balances! Negative balances!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u121	Madam Member, you cannot see the difference between « negative balances » and « bankruptcy ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u122	That's why I said it was from the system!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u123	Madam Member, it is no longer worth insisting, because what you said is said, what you wrote, is written. All Portuguese know him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u124	It's impressive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u125	Madam Member, you have made another insinuation or statement. He said that the government of which I am a member, or the governments of which I am a party, or I did not have the courage to put forward proposals for a genuine strengthening of the sustainability of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u126	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u127	Madam Member, who has no courage is your party, except the courage to cut. It is who made the proposals to change the formula for calculating pensions, with political costs, who made the proposal for changing the age of the reform, with political costs, were the Governments of the Socialist Party, because they always cared about the sustainability of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You make a lot of proposals, but when you have the opportunity to change, you don't change anything and you don't do anything but cut. I would also like to reassure you. Members of the opposition, saying that, as already said by Mr Finance Minister, transfers from the additional to the IMI and the percentage of IRC will be made to the Social Security Stabilisation Fund as soon as the Ministry of Finance considers the clearance process to be completed. [[Ahhh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u128	Madam Member, allow me to tell you that it reveals little understanding if you call this a « captivating », because a transfer from ministry to ministry, from government area to other, does not affect the results of the deficit or has an impact on the balance of public accounts, only has the impact of the change from source of financing to other destination, which is the Stabilisation Fund, which is integrated into the accounts of the State. And that amount will remain there and will continue, as it is today, to help the balance of public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been possible in this debate to see how enthusiastic you are. opposition opponents support transfers from the additional to the IMI and IRC.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u130	I'm looking to see you guys. Members of the opposition have adhered to the certificate of reform which a Government of the Socialist Party has launched more than 10 years ago, and I am glad that they care about our policies, probably because, as the former PSD president said, they have finally found that they are correct and have good effects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u131	The second round of questions is closed and we are now moving to the stage of intervention. To that end, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u132	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I can't stand it, actually! Don't worry about it! The PSD to talk about respect for the lives of workers when it sent thousands of workers to unemployment and threw so many others out of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u133	There are times when everything is worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u134	There's decency! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Basically, what is at stake is the following: without decent work there can be no decent pensions. That is the respect we owe to the Portuguese for a working life, that is the respect the Socialist Party has assumed. But also, without the sustainability of the system there are no pensions. Bridge! Not too much, not too much. The social security pension system is based on intergenerational solidarity. Retirement pensions are borne by workers in the workforce and that is why we have to be responsible, very responsible. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] We have no right to mortgage the future of future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u136	Therefore, it is worth recalling the 2007 reform, in fact, carried out by the current Minister, and the two substantive amendments. First, the introduction of the sustainability factor as a way to reduce and balance the risks that a clear and progressive demographic ageing led to the system and, second, to change the calculation rules for the determination of the pension value, which began to account for the entire contribution career and not just a certain final period. They laid the groundwork for a sustained reform of social security, sustainability that, as we know, was put in question by the previous government. More: it was not just the freezing and cuts of pensions, the unemployment to rise in the arrow or the emigration that justified that imbalance. Don't! Conscious political options were taken to open the way to ceilinging and private social security systems. Over two consecutive years, there was a need to make extraordinary transfers of more than EUR 2000 million in order to compensate for the account deficit. With the PS Government, on the contrary, it is the second year followed in which there are no extraordinary transfers, for the simple reason, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not necessary. The results achieved by the Government of the Socialist Party are due to the return of income policy, which ensured a sustained increase of more than 20 % of contributions and contributions between 2015 and 2018, based on two decisive factors, the increase in employment and the rise in wages. In previous government, unemployment reached around 18 %; with PS we have 6, 8 %, young unemployment fell to less than half and long-term unemployment is 3, 2 %. These factors add to a persistent fight against precariousness and low wages, dynamisation — don’t forget! — the collective bargaining, then virtually non-existent, and the increase of the national minimum wage, with more than 19 % in four years, and the agreed average wage, above 7 %. There was also an annual automatic update of pensions and three extraordinary updates in 2016, 2017 and 2018, with 3, 6 million paid pensions, when, previously, with the exception of the minimum pension of the general scheme and social pension, we had a shortage framework with all other forms frozen by the PSD / CDS-PP government. This virtuous combination of accelerated and constant increase in employment, decrease in unemployment, rise in wages, growth in the economy, and also the result of measures to modernise and simplify the social security system and the diversification of sources resulted in a historical transfer of more than EUR 3000 million to the EFS ( Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security ). Unemployment is very expensive, not only socially, as a factor of exclusion, but also because workers stop discounting for the system and the system provides them with a subsidy, resulting in a double penalty for public accounts. The introduction of changes to the FEFS, ensures the payment of future pensions — as has already been said — the creation of additional IMI and others, such as the provision by IRC and the diversification of sources, ensures the sustainability of the system for about 20 years. This is the path that we have successfully taken, say it, a privileged path by the PS, to combat inequalities, which is based on a principle that we will not open our hand: the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Everyone has the right to social security and it is up to the State to organize, coordinate and subsidize a unified and decentralized social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u137	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State : when we finish this debate, it makes every sense that it is recognised that the generality of countries faces challenges and risks in their respective systems of solidarity and social security, for which no truly reformist party can remain indifferent. Among these challenges and risks, particular attention is given to demographic phenomena, especially those related to the ageing of the population and the low birth rate, which call on all policy makers, especially the most moderate ones, to the need to find structural and lasting solutions, which ensure the sustainability of the social protection system, also for future generations. In line with all this, the PSD has defended the need for a profound structural reform of social security which guarantees this, its future sustainability. We well know that the current pre-election period does not facilitate the serene and objective discussion on such a complex and decisive matter for the lives of people, as is the case with their social protection. That is why the question remains whether or not the Government and the Socialist Party are available to seek commitments in the next Parliament to achieve a balanced reform of social security which ensures its sustainability and also, in the medium and long term, to think about the model and those that will be reformed within 20 or 30 years. in this debate, there is another question. For about a year now, the country has been witnessing delays in the processing of pensions due to the lack of human resources for social security services. Thousands of Portuguese workers are forced to wait another year and sometimes even two years for reforms and pensions to which they are legitimately entitled. There are thousands and thousands of dramatic personal situations, in which delays in the state and government — with the support of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party — have hindered many Portuguese in access to pensions to which they are entitled after their working life. In fact, it is recalled that the Ombudsman recently realized that in 2018 he received the largest number of complaints from his history, more than 36 000,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u139	This is the miracle and Canaan but on the contrary: to make good measures a disgrace.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u140	... statistics in which your Ministry, Minister, stands out to lead the number of complaints from Portuguese, with almost 30% of its total, complaints that, with regard to delays in processing and payment of pensions, almost quadrupled over the previous year. This problem was also recognised by the Government, justice is done when it recently passed a decree extending the granting of pensions on a provisional basis, knowing that these provisional pensions have a lower value than the final ones. from that we can not fail to show our concern and wait to know whether the government will pay the pensioners victims of these excessive delays in the allocation of pensions the interest due them, in a framework of good faith with the State. In addition, it is important to remember that last January the Minister stated in the Committee on Labour and Social Security that, and I quote, "our commitment is to substantially reduce expectations for normal waiting time values during the first half of the year". Time has passed and we all know the situation in which thousands of people find themselves, and it is also desirable that by the end of the month, which is ending, these situations were regularized, as some other government officials have already said publicly. in this sense, we find it relevant that we insist on the question of what is, at the moment, the average waiting time of the Portuguese, between the time when they required the reform to which they are entitled and that of their effective allocation, being legitimate that the government, so that the Assembly of the Republic also knows, for example, about the annual evolution, since 2010, the number of pension applications entered, the number of new pensions allocated and, finally, the exact number of social security workers directly restricted to the processing of these pension applications. It is that some of the data released by the Ministry of Protection do not allow the exact numbers to be provided on many of these matters. Finally, Mr President, although in this case he does not ask Mr Minister the direct question, because this is an intervention, the PSD would like Mr Minister and his Ministry to be able to answer the 63 questions that the Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group have submitted to their Ministry and for which they have not yet obtained the due and demanding answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u141	Just answer six questions. Only 6!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u142	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the sustainability of social security. And it is good to remember that the CDS has drawn attention, insistently, to the fact that the birth rate is broken and the demographic issue of Portuguese society — indeed, of European society — an increasingly ageing society, with increasingly reformed for less and less workers in the assets, which obviously puts pressure on the sustainability of the social security system. Many Portuguese, especially the younger ones, legitimately wonder if they will have a pension when it comes to retirement time. Clearly, there is a solution to say that the age of reform is constantly increasing and decreasing the value of this same reform, to say that everyone will have a pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u144	Private insurers make the same speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u145	Even with costs for the economy, it may continue to be said that more contributions can be increased to social security, with more taxes and taxes, but, of course, the most important issue, from a political point of view, is a serious debate on social security, on its sustainability, and that debate requires that all Portuguese be properly informed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u147	There is therefore a need for more transparency. And the fact is that the government continues to hide fundamental data from the Assembly and the citizens to know how our social security system is working.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u149	It is of course a very important fact which is the waiting time for applications for pensions, which has been denounced by the CDS and, in particular, by the Ombudsman. How long does a citizen have to wait to receive the pension he is entitled to? A citizen who worked all his life will have to wait how long to receive the pension he has right to? This is a duty of transparency on the part of the Government, which has not yet met before the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u151	For the CDS, transparency is also essential so that, having more information, they can know what their expectations are, whether the age at which they can retire, or the value of the pension they can expect. The CDS also put forward proposals on this issue, and the fact is that the left, all of it, rejected this debate. Of course, the government, the tow of the CDS transparency requirements, made a pension simulator. But it does not achieve all the objectives desired by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u152	This, in fact, is fantastic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u153	It is important to inform future pensioners about the modalities available to them, in terms of pensions and savings, is fundamental to the CDS. The CDS therefore advocates a public security system, a distribution system, a supplementary system, which includes a public capitalisation regime, and an individual collective initiative scheme. This breakdown pillar, financed by the contributions of workers in the asset, would finance current pensions. The CDS argues that the capitalisation pillar is a pillar in which the worker accumulates for himself, and that fund, fed with individual contributions, may increase his pension in future benefits. The CDS believes that it is essential to have an information system for reform, with virtual individual accounts, which transmits to each pensioner information on the pension that can be expected; an annual letter allowing to know what the planned pension is; and an information on what its retirement supplement may be, with tax benefits. The fact is that the left always refuses to hold this debate. You'd rather bury your head in the sand. And a real debate on the sustainability of social security is fundamental so that it is possible to reach the consensus that it is necessary to achieve that issue by looking to the future with another hope, for all younger generations. Unfortunately, that has not been possible. Let us hope that in the future, and here we will be, this debate will take place. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Almost at the end of this debate it is important to understand exactly what we were discussing here, and it seems to us that the right has not been able to understand what is on the table. It is that when we talk about sustainability of social security we certainly do not talk about the same thing as PSD and CDS speak. When they talk about sustainability of social security, they talk about cuts in pensions and cuts in reforms. In fact, it has always been so, and during the four years of PSD/CDS governance they were eximilar in this matter. First, they try to create the narrative that there is no money, there is a disgrace, there comes the devil or similar things. And we did not forget when they told the whole country that there was no money to pay wages, there was no money to pay pensions and no reforms. From this narrative, they justified the cuts they made, and were absolutely blind cuts on those who needed most in our country. Yes, we remember that they sent the proposal to cut 600 million euros in pensions to the Constitutional Court and, therefore, no one will forget, no pensioner will forget. After justifying the cuts, they came with the justification for the path of privatization, which, in fact, has always been the great goal of the right in our country — the privatization of a system such as what currently exists, public, national, in relation to reforms and pensions — it is still, and it has been noted today very well what they want for the future. Therefore, the big question to the right is whether to admit, once and for all, that it has had a completely wrong policy with regard to social security, which has helped to create the great problems that exist today in social security. But this debate also has to do with other issues. We talked about the delays in the National Pension Centre, and today morning, in committee, we had the opportunity to discuss this issue. But, in fact, it is necessary to have a great deal of undoing to tear the clothes off the delays that have existed, and that have been closed, because it was the PSD and the CDS that cut the number of National Pension Centre employees by almost 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u157	That is why it takes a lot of boldness to come here to tear the clothes off in relation to a problem that clearly helped to create. To finish, and on dignity at work and reform, which is important, neither the PSD nor the CDS had one word and systematically vote against the proposals that the majority in this Assembly of the Republic presents on dignity at work, in reform and in pension, either the end of the cut-off of the sustainability factor, the early reform or new forms of sustainability of social security. It was understood and understood, with this debate, that the right is on the side of anyone who wants to privatize, of those who want to cut, and the Portuguese and Portuguese do not forget that. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u158	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u159	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In conclusion, and I congratulate the Left Block on bringing this issue here, this debate has, in fact, two virtues. The first is to remember that a public social security system is an unfinished utopia; the second, also very important, is that this unfinished utopia has suffered a set of attacks, from the very beginning by those who cultivate individualism, contrary to Communityism, defending the idea that "I work, I discount for myself, for my pension and for my social benefits". [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a debate that makes it clear that the attack that has been unleashed has been on the basis of the idea that public social security in the future will not be able to ensure its own sustainability and is a debate that shows that there are still many, in the Portuguese society as a whole, who defend the accelerated inevitability of demographic ageing, the inevitability of the deregulation of labour relations and the inevitability of low wages, which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been opposed. It is a debate that shows that there are a number of people who continue to defend the proliferation of private pension systems, savings-reform plans and other individual choices and freedoms of choice, which only contribute to deepening the principle of intergenerational solidarity and replacing a public system with a private system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u160	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who in this Parliament thinks that the battle for a public social security system is won and that one can quickly follow up on other battles is wrong. It is enough to remember that between 2012 and 2015 the stability of social security was strongly affected and the political options of PSD and CDS formed a perfect storm: the youngest emigrated in mass; unemployment increased exponentially; without employment, social security contributions decreased sharply; social protection benefits increased with the increase of poverty and unemployment; more than 80 % of pensions were frozen; blind cuts were applied in paid pensions, first provisionally, but they wanted to be final, not the current parliamentary majority; average and minimum wages decreased; the early reform regime penalized workers; and the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund lost three decades of solvency. It was precisely in this context that the alternative proposed by the Socialist Party to the governance of the PSD and the CDS, from the point of view of the stability of social security, was extremely important. When in 2007 everyone was vaccinating the end of the public pension system, we promoted weighted changes. In the face of the 2015 chasm, we have stopped emigration, we have suddenly reduced unemployment; we have created new jobs; we have frozen pensions; we have eliminated cuts in paid pensions; we have created a new system of early, fairer and less penalizing reforms for workers; wages have risen, minimum and medium-sized, and the Portuguese are today better, as today is also better the public pension system, more robust, less dependent on typical sources of financing and, therefore, in sum and in conclusion of the debate, more sustainable. But in spite of the results obtained, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to continue. How? First, rejecting the liberal theories of privatization and free individualization and free choice of parallel pension systems; second, strengthening the current system, with responsibility and, above all, without demagogy. It is not possible, as it has become clear here, to defend a public system and to be indifferent to the consequences in the system of increasing life expectancy, the current demographic scenario, the ageing of the population, the low natural growth rate of the population or even the insufficient Portuguese migration balance. For example, to defend, in this context, a 40-year career as a long career would be disruptive of the process of stabilisation of social security that we started in 2007, which was interrupted between 2012 and 2015 and which forced corrective measures, and successful, taken by the government in the last four years. If it was intended to generalize the retirement age at 60 years with 40 years of contributions, it would continue to be necessary to replace the single social rate or to find other forms of funding to ensure the sustainability of the system. That is why whenever we changed the access rules we did it with weight, because we knew that the greatest injustice we could commit would be to allow today's taxpayers to see their expectations frustrated. The greatest injustice we would commit would be to reveal the inability to ensure sustainability before those who today also pay the pensions and benefits of all Portuguese. That is why the changes implemented in 2007 in the Portuguese pension system are so praised, or is so praised, in Europe and the world, the economic model that we have implemented since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude on this matter, as in others, we have closed this cycle of quiet consciousness. We would oppose the idea, pilgrimage and dangerous, of privatization of the system, strengthen the universal public system, reject justice and, therefore, Portuguese today can continue to be supportive of future generations trusting in respect for a work life, confident that they will have guaranteed protection in old age by future generations of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u161	Before we move on to the closing stage, Mr Vieira da Silva wishes to speak for the time available. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that at this time of debate it would be important, because the defense of the social security system is important, to remember that the Portuguese have access today...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u163	For CDS pressure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u164	Maybe it's due to CDS pressure... none of it bothers me. It's not true, but it doesn't matter! [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs António Carlos Monteiro.]] As I was saying, the Portuguese now have access to a pension simulator ( moreover, two, one in social security and one in the General Pension Fund ), to which they have already accessed nearly 1 million workers, in 4 million uses. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] in this simulator one can know the whole contribution career, one can estimate the likely age of reform, the probable value of the reform and, moreover, simulate changes to one, age and value, depending on the expected evolution of the contribution career. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Mr António Carlos Monteiro may also use a simulator for the certificate of reform, which will tell you that if you save 2 % or 4 % of your salary and put it in a system of individual public capitalisation, this will give you the possibility at the time of reform to access a value that the system calculates and that you can use for the strengthening of your pension, to raise it all or even to transfer it to the individual accounts of your children. These tools exist and are fundamental to the future of the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u165	We then move on to the closing phase. The first intervention lies with the interpelent party and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor on his behalf. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for being here today in this debate. I know that spending so much time in Parliament in the morning at night is not customary for government members. But this debate was important and timely, because it allowed, firstly, to realize that the Portuguese right, PSD and CDS, is still attached to a paradigm of the past that attacks social security and what it means of solidarity between generations and security for people and, secondly, that if there are discussions, debates and ideas in dispute, but solutions on the table, it is on the side of the parties that since 2015 have changed the policy on social security. This is relevant. Speaking about sustainability of social security involves two different aspects, and both are essential. A first aspect has to do with the accounts in the present. We realized that when the PSD and CDS spoke about the unsustainableness of social security, on the one hand, it was to try to hide the disaster that was their policy at work, in wages and in safeguarding the future interests of workers, their pensions, and how unemployment brought social security resources and did not leave them to the future, and on the other hand, as a political strategy to attack social security and seek their privatization. And we do not forget that, because they said that social security was unsustainable to justify cutting 600 million euros directly into pensions, cutting into social support, more inequality and less support in poverty. But they also intended to privatize, open social security to the private and ensure that there is social security for the poor, charitable, and a private system that benefits from the income of the most disadvantaged in our society. We reject this idea of starting social security and creating two systems, one private and one public, ensuring that the public would be destroyed. Don't! The social security system is public, must continue in this way and is strong only if there is a social commitment of society to ensure it as such, and this commitment exists and has formed a majority in this House. But there is another fundamental aspect that I believe is something we must deepen. We have taken two important steps towards the sustainability of social security by diversifying its forms of financing. The additional IMI, which today seems even more hegemonic in this room than we have ever seen in the past, is important to strengthen the accounts of social security and the part of IRC that goes to social security is also essential to do so. However, the diversification of sources of social security financing does not eliminate a deeper debate, because it is necessary to guard against the demographic difficulties that will be presented before us in the future, and I believe that we have not been able to reach the depth of this debate. It is a matter that remains for the next Parliament. from our point of view, there are some fundamental aspects to be put on the table: firstly, to incorporate the need to change sources of financing with the new economy — the digital economy, the robotic economy, a different way of seeing the world of work — but also to ensure that it is the income of companies, more than their contribution to jobs, which guarantees the form of financing for social security, and this is a debate that we have to have here in the future. from the part of the Left Block, it is clear our claim and the way in which we want to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u167	Ah! Now they want to debate! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u168	There are other aspects that we have heard today, but it is still important to deepen in the future. The sustainability factor for specific contribution careers, which, as we know, are already penalized by the hardness of their working life, is in the process of being resolved and we expect the government to make public what was planned in the State budget. But the sustainability factor itself, in itself, is a form of general penalty that we want to see withdrawn and, from this point of view, it is important to think how we can fit social security for the future. At other times, Mr Minister has already brought this debate on individual forms of access to social security, the pension of early retirement, and it is important that we have this debate in the future. from the Left Block, we have opening to do it. To conclude, in a very synthetic way, and my comrade José Soeiro has already said it: we understand that the four years of this legislature are quite different from the 600 million euros cut that the right would want to make, are quite different from the freezing of pensions that the PS proposed to do in the election campaign and are much better than those that many pensioners, many retired, expected, because they had extraordinary increases in pensions. This was only possible, because we achieved consensus, agreements, and we were not closed in dogmas, and it was only possible, too, because we did not listen to the songs on the right that were nothing more, nothing less than serums that led us to the destruction of social security. Now, if that path was possible and it was important, I believe that the teachings to be drawn should also guide us to other understandings throughout this legislature. And, as she is not yet at the end, it is not now that the serene corners of the right come here to take forward future advances to our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u169	To close the debate, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I can no longer agree with you about the importance of this debate and also about the appreciation that it has made that, in these circumstances, at this political moment, it might be difficult to do the debate with the depth it deserves. In any case, some questions were clarified and other clues were opened. There are two aspects that seem of great importance to me: today we have a social security system that is in a better financial situation, which is wider in the coverage of eventualities, but which has problems. These problems are posed by the demographic challenge — no one can minimize them — and they have to do with the degradation of the system, in organizational and functional terms, which eventually was harder and deeper than we all had supposed. A public system that does not renew for almost a decade is a public system that pays a high price for it. Fortunately, today, the system has no problems in paying its benefits, which are millions, every month - it is good not to forget that there are many million every month - it has no problems in, in time, responding to the immediate possibilities of unemployment, illness, parenthood, responds effectively and in time, in a very generalized way, almost total, to these problems, but it has a problem that is being solved, and I would say that structurally it is already resolved, with regard to the payment of the first pension. And why is it solved? Because, with the combination of measures taken over the past two years — procedural measures to simplify and exchange information between components of the system, measures to strengthen and decentralise its operations — today have conditions to process far more than pensions required in each month or year. This situation is very clear when, depending on the years, a value of the 140 000 new pensions per year, until July, 93 000 pensions, i.e., we are processing much more than it would be necessary only to process those who entered this year. It is obvious that there is a liability to be recovered, and that this liability is difficult from the social point of view and from the point of view of the system and its credibility, but we also know the enormous effort of social security workers to ensure its functioning and we also know that the tables that replaced people with 20 and 30 years of experience do not have the same effectiveness in the management of processes that are sometimes still excessively complex. But on the issue of sustainability, which is, of course, one of the main problems — which have been solved by these very important, very important, short-term issues — I think it is natural that we should have an in-depth debate if we want to do so, if we do not get in the way of each other. It is true, indeed, that there are two fundamental debates around the pension system: one has to do with the arrangements for organizing the system, which is to be distributed, such as ours and most countries, or individual capitalisation, as in some countries, minorityly; another has to do with the choice between a dominant or exclusively public organization of the system or the exclusive or partially private organization of the system. This is a debate going on in Portugal, as is happening around the world. And it is good for everyone to take part in this debate, because that is a serious debate. It is true that there are then intermediate solutions and often intermediate solutions are those that are most effective. In my view, what is most effective for a system such as ours is to preserve, defend, strengthen the public dimension and the way in which our pension system is divided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u172	Even because moving towards another path would have a transition cost that is, nowadays, unbearable and unbearable in Portuguese society. It is therefore not just for reasons, I would say, of ideology... [[Pause.]] It's natural attention that opposition benches are listening to me... I'm not talking about anything important... so follow the march.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u173	What was important was to ask the questions! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u174	It is not just a matter of ideology, if you wish, of conviction that a public system of distribution is more effective in guaranteeing cohesion, it is also for reasons of a technical nature, which, in my view, point out, to the impossibility of another model in our country and in our situation. But we have no doubt — and I will end with this idea — that in all these models, theoretical or practical, of options between public and private, between capitalisation or distribution, there is a variable that is absolutely decisive: without economy, without economic growth and without employment there is no sustainable social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u175	But if there is to be a job, there must be an economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u176	And this, in a very obvious way, has been proved in these years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u177	You want to finish, Minister Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. With more than 350 000 jobs, we removed the red system and put it in the green system, i.e. the creation of surpluses and safety cushions for the future. Is the strategic battle winning? No, you're not winning, but we're in better condition to win it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-26.u179	This concludes the debate of the Appeal to the Government No 31 / XIII / 4. a ( BE). I only announce to the House that tomorrow, as usual, we will meet at 3 p.m. with a PSD marking on the difficulties in access to health for citizens. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, closed the session. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
