ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will do his best to announce the diplomas that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1073 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Regulates the profession of health assistant technician, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1074 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — It enables IMI to be paid in property benefits in respect of spouses not legally separated from persons and goods or de facto units by amending Article 120. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 from 12 November, which goes down to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start the agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of draft resolutions Nos 1887 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a contingency action plan to take urgent measures to mitigate the overall impacts of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, and 1928 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a contingency action plan to minimize the effects and consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is required of a government? To ensure the security, stability and rights of citizens to whom it governs, who have a vision of the country beyond four years, who knows how to use the positive international settings for the common good and who also knows how to trap society and the economy with mechanisms that mitigate the consequences of possible external shocks. What is required of the opposition? To monitor the action of the Government, which presents a strategic counterpoint for the country's path, which looks at the citizens forgotten by the government, who carefully observes the political movements within and outside the country, so that their political action is in line with the need always in changing the population. This is what democracy is all about. And it was in this framework that the PSD decided to move forward with this draft resolution which we are debating today and which aims to intensify the urgent work of the Portuguese Government towards the completion of a multisectoral contingency plan for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, with or without agreement. The entire Brexit process presents itself as an unparalleled challenge for the European integration process. A European project that has always laid down the guarantee of peace among European peoples, territorial and social cohesion and the premise that the sharing of sovereignty leads to the strengthening of sovereignty, particularly in the current international context. We can have all the confidence of the world in negotiations and foreign votes, but, contrary to what we hear from the socialist bench, preparing contingencies is not to demonstrate mistrust in the process. Mrs. Members, there are always variables that escape the control of only one government, namely the democratically legitimate decisions of another. Therefore, there are variables for the Portuguese Government to control to ensure the minimum of disturbance that an exit without agreement would invariably create for our country and mainly for our citizens. in this sense, in the face of a scenario where, over the past few months, the danger of exit without agreement from the United Kingdom has increased, culminating this week with the lead of the agreement itself by the British Parliament, the government has announced a contingency plan to stocks — benefits measures! — over the last six days. We believe that when it is complete and closed, it will no longer appear at the moment in the «timed calendar». This train is already late. It is late for the citizens, who remain concerned about consular assistance in the United Kingdom ; it is late for the tourism sector in Portugal ; it is late for the Portuguese companies exporting to the United Kingdom ; and it is late for the British citizens, who today run, as never before, to request Portuguese nationality. It is now time for the government to speed up the step — a government which is also absent from this debate — following the guidance of the European Council, the European Commission and, indeed, from the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u5	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. Other countries, such as Denmark, soon included in their State budgets for 2019 amounts for exit contingencies without agreement. This did not happen in Portugal. This is a matter of timely preparation, not of biased ideologies and tricks. I end by recalling, by the way, English poet John Donne who in 1624 wrote the following: « No man is an island, complete in himself / but a piece of the continent, a part of the whole». Mrs. Members, no government is also an isolated island, complete in itself. Whether for integration, whether for globalization, this message, almost 400 years old, is more current than ever. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u7	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are 71 days left for Brexit and the worst scenario of all, and all the scenarios were bad, it is unfortunately increasingly a reality, that is, an outing without agreement, disordered, the so-called "hard Brexit".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u10	The Portuguese Government has long been warned of this possibility. And it wasn't just the CDS that did it. The ESC ( Economic and Social Council ), in its opinion on the Big Plan Options for 2018, warned of the consequences of a hard Brexit. And in 2019, he repeated that notice. The CDS has repeatedly questioned the government and so far we have not had a single answer. The truth is that it had to be a business confederation, the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal), to carry out a study on the consequences for Portugal on a disorderly way out of the United Kingdom. And in fact, when we look at these numbers, we realize that the effect on our economy can be very, but even very, high: 26 % of exports to our fourth largest trading partner may be at risk. The truth is, today, it takes 1704 hours for a possible messy exit and there is no Portuguese to reside in the United Kingdom who effectively knows what your government will do for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u12	There are 1704 hours left and there is no exporting company in Portugal who knows what kind of effective support it will have, in the face of this disaster that may fall on our exports. The CDS has long been challenging the government for contingency plans. Contingency plans like the Irish did, and they are doing. Contingency plans, such as the Danish, Swedish or Spanish themselves, are doing. So far, the Government has always rejected the existence of a contingency plan and only today, after the vote in the British Parliament, only today has it finally come to give some news of what might come there. But the truth is, even a line of credit whose creation the CDS has long been suggesting, even if this line of credit comes to exist, no one knows how it will be operationalized, who can apply to it, what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u14	The Portuguese Government is acting late and is acting badly. What we want today, with our initiative, is for the government to take its step and correct the'strike' it is now taking. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u15	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Portuguese Parliament has had the opportunity to closely monitor the entire Brexit process, particularly as regards the concerns of the Portuguese community in the United Kingdom, which is, as we know, one of the largest in that country. in fact, during several hearings and discussions with government officials — it has been with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State for European Affairs or even with the Prime Minister — the main issue was whether or not there is a guarantee of the rights of Portuguese citizens and citizens. And this happened because, politically, the issues of citizenship and freedom of movement of people were the most attacked during the Brexit campaign and because the feeling of uncertainty in the lives of these people is the most difficult to overcome. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to discuss this matter here at plenary. Also, within the Commission, we have had the opportunity to say this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, i.e. that there has been and has been a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty on the part of the Portuguese community, which, I fear, has been poorly answered. On several occasions, the Left Block Parliamentary Group also questioned the Government about what measures would be being taken or what would be being taken to respond to this situation. And we also did so in due course, either because the political process of negotiation between the United Kingdom and the European Union has become complicated, or because the internal climate in the United Kingdom has also been exacerbated. The fact is that several months ago it was expected that the agreement might not be so easy to reach—and now it would not be at least with the almost blind confidence that the Portuguese Government has always had, that the negotiation process of the agreement would come to an end and there would be an orderly exit agreement. Today, especially during this week, we could check here that it wasn't. And for our part, we've been alerting for that. In fact, the Left Block, during the discussion and vote of the State Budget Bill proposal for 2019, included exactly one proposal so that from then on there could be a reinforcement in consulates, not only in terms of financial resources but also in terms of staff, to respond to what is already being verified, which is a greater race to consular services themselves. But this week we had knowledge of the existence of a contingency plan for the Portuguese Government. It is important that this plan recognises and responds — a response requested by Parliament and also by the Left Block several months ago — to the one who was, after all, the worst scenario that could be on the table. Therefore, what we have to say about the draft resolutions here under discussion is that the proposals of the PSD and the CDS, both in their recitals and in the resolution part, seem to us to be very focused on companies and not so much on citizens. And, in the perspective of the Left Block, the truth is that, without guaranteeing the rights of citizens and citizens, the guarantee for companies will not be very effective either. In our view, therefore, there must be a priority here, which is to guarantee the rights of Portuguese citizens and citizens in the United Kingdom and to end the climate of insecurity and uncertainty that has surrounded this process, to which unfortunately the Government has not been able to respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They wanted the PSD and the CDS, despite the fact that what is in law called 'necessary oversight of the deal', to bring to the discussion in plenary today a recommendation to the Government to do something that has already been done. in fact, although they know that the government has already presented a national contingency plan — firstly, last Friday, for citizens and today for economic agents — the PSD and the CDS insist on this discussion. Actually, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must really welcome the government. Of course, for all the preparatory work for Brexit that has been carried out — and not only for one month, but since 24 June 2016 and more intensively in the last year because, as has happened with the other Member States of the European Union, Portugal has been intensifying the adoption of preparatory measures for Brexit during the second half of 2018, in the face of the political impasse in the United Kingdom and being increasingly likely to exit without agreement. Preparatory measures — and not ignoring the warnings that have been made — are examples of: the information sessions on Brexit, aimed at the Portuguese community living in the United Kingdom ; the creation of the Portugal In Mission Structure, whose aim is to identify investment attractiveness opportunities and establish contacts with potential investors who wish to remain in the European Union after the exit of the United Kingdom. In addition to these preparatory or, if they prefer, preventive measures, and by supporting the Contingency Action Plan presented by the European Commission on 19 December, which necessarily applies to all Member States of the European Union — as we know, national measures should be taken in a coordinated manner with the Commission, with the aim of maintaining unity and response to 27, thus avoiding the spread of responses and the consequent fragmentation of regimes – the Portuguese Government has presented national contingency plans over the past week. The government therefore acted at the right time when it had to, and much in time. Among the various measures put forward, and which are many, I would like to point out a few regarding the rights of citizens. The Government has already ensured that all citizens'rights will be respected, in particular, social rights and their portability, as well as recognition of academic degrees and professional portfolios, always on the assumption of reciprocity by the United Kingdom. It also refers to the strengthening of people in customs and thus to the consular presence of the United Kingdom. with regard to economic operators, in particular the support provided for undertakings which are most affected by Brexit, especially in an exit scenario without agreement, the Government has already announced, within the framework of the national contingency plan, the creation of a line of financing for Portuguese companies with an initial amount of EUR 50 million. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have no illusions, no further preventive and contingency measures that are adopted, neither the European Union nor any Member State alone will be sufficiently prepared for the impacts that Brexit will bring,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u20	... of course, because there is no precedent to consider, that is, all the effects of Brexit are, in fact, unpredictable. In short, the Portuguese Government acted in the right time, when it had to do so, and much in time of the country preparing for the departure from the United Kingdom, at 23 hours in Portugal, from 29 March 2019, whatever the scenario that 30 day brings us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, the CFP, from the very first moment, stated that respect for the legitimate and sovereign decision of the British people should prevail and indeed be respected by all. That's not what's happened over time. In all this negotiation process, what has been seen was in fact a set of pressures and blackmails, creating ever more difficulties throughout the negotiation process, trying to reverse the decision of the British people and at the same time making the UK an example for other peoples not even dare to make a similar decision, which we consider unacceptable. We always believe that this exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union should not be used to attack social and labour rights. We also have always considered that the Portuguese Government should intervene in two ways: on the one hand, to protect and safeguard the interests and rights of Portuguese people residing and working in the United Kingdom ; on the other hand, together with the United Kingdom, to pursue mutually advantageous bilateral relations, in view of safeguarding the interests of the Portuguese people and also of the British people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u24	Neither was this what happened over time. We are now presented with a contingency plan with delays, a set of measures which once again go in a logic of subordination to the guidelines of the European Union and which, indeed, do not take national interests into account. In addition, there are a number of aspects that really need to be deepened with regard to the preparation of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. We always put this need on the table. Moreover, this week we have submitted a request to the Committee on European Affairs to hear a wide range of entities from the most diverse sectors, just so that Parliament can deepen this discussion and the perception on the impact of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. With regard to the initiatives under discussion, both the one proposed by the PSD and the one proposed by the CDS, the pretext of a need which is obvious and on which much should have been worked in our country, there are two aspects which are underlying to them: on the one hand, once again, the country's subordination to the European Union's guidelines, and not the affirmation of our sovereignty and our independence ; on the other hand the fact that we remain the non-acceptance of a sovereign decision, which has been taken legitimately by a people and that we consider to be effectively respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u25	Mr Trigo Pereira, a non-registered Member, who has one minute, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the agreement negotiated and signed by the 27 Member States and the Government of the United Kingdom on their departure from the European Union, was dropped this week in the British Parliament by a very expressive majority. This increases the risk of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom, without agreement, which leaves only a small possibility for an amendment of the political declaration to be best accepted by both parties. The impact of the UK exit is at the level of the rights of citizens resident in both countries, in particular the Portuguese community there resident, trade balance and financial flows. It's not a dramatic impact, but it's not firing. Moreover, the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) estimated a 10 % fall in exports, which will represent a fall in GDP (gross domestic product) of around 0, 2 %. in this context, Portugal needs to accelerate the implementation and monitoring of the contingency plan presented by the Government, but — it must be recognised — with some delay, i.e. on 11 January. In fact, I will abstain from voting on these two drafts and my statement of vote concerns the need of the Government to speed up the implementation and monitoring of this programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u27	For a second intervention, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor which will use his remaining time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have 10 seconds for this intervention, almost as long as it remains until Brexit. It was worth marking this debate, even if it were to be seen by the Socialist Party, which, less than a month ago, said that a disorderly exit was unimaginable, which had to be forced by the European Council, which urged the Member States to have contingency plans, to come here today to say that, after all, a disorderly exit is very likely. at this moment, it is clear that in fact, the public officials of the government in Portugal do not know how many are going and that this does harm, and much, our economy and, above all, harm, and much, the Portuguese citizens who are, today, in the United Kingdom and those who wish to continue going to the United Kingdom, and do not have the protection they should have. It had to be the opposition, the CDS and the PSD, to force the government to take positions that protect people, companies, because if we did not, we would probably still have the Socialist Party saying that Brexit would not happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u29	To close this debate, the proposing party, in this case the PSD, has the right to use 2 minutes, so I give the floor to Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is regrettable that, in a debate of this importance, the Government is not worthy of being present. It is regrettable that on this important issue the Government has systematically refused to follow the PSD, the opposition, to examine the effects of the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. It is regrettable that for months the Government has refused to hold a debate, a contingency plan, and its response to this issue has systematically been the existence of the Portugal In Mission Structure, whose results are clearly unknown. It is regrettable that now, within weeks of the departure of the United Kingdom, the Government has not even presented to us the contingency plan for companies and the economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this subject, as in others, unfortunately, the government has shown that it does not look to the future, does not prepare itself and, when it presents anything, does it clearly on the knee. in this case, the impreparation of this government makes Portuguese citizens living in the United Kingdom and companies exporting there more fragile. This, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, who support this government, more than regrettable is unacceptable, and will all be judged for this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u31	We move on to the next item on the agenda, with the appreciation of the Draft Resolution No 1824 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government establish a proportional limit for wage disparity within each organisation. To present this legislative initiative and start the debate, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party today brings to this House a structuring theme for the future of our society: wage disparities and how they contribute to increasing social inequalities, increasing and, in some cases, overwhelming wage inequalities and how they contribute to a poor distribution of the wealth generated by society as a whole, which, while increasing, is not channelled in the same way, or to the same extent, to improve the living conditions of the generality of workers. This is a phenomenon that has been worsening over the last few decades, even though in contrast to technological and scientific progress at the disposal of all, with greater democratization in access to information or, in our case, with a consistent increase in Portuguese qualifications. The most recent data put Portugal at the forefront of the European Union's countries with higher wage disparities, which is even more evident if we take into account that, in recent years, after the country has turned the austerity page, managers' salaries have increased by about 40 %, which is far from being accompanied by the pay of the overwhelming majority of workers. There is no fair or reasonable reason to justify this increase in wage disparities, which is unrelated to the results obtained by the same companies. It is true that this is not an exclusive concern of our country, it is a subject that is being debated a little around the world, because there is a broad recognition that the worsening of inequalities is a serious problem. And it is a serious problem, because these excessive inequalities threaten territorial cohesion, but they also call into question democratic systems. Combating social inequalities is also the best way to combat populism and those who call into question the reformist capacity of public authorities. It is up to us, therefore, to give an answer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal which the Socialist Party brings today to this House is aimed at establishing a mechanism for the proportional limitation of wage disparity within organizations, whether public or private, i.e. we propose that a maximum ratio be established between the remuneration of the most well-paid and the remuneration of the least well-paid workers, penalizing the organizations that fail to comply with it. It is not that we want to lower the higher wages, but we understand that if an organization is able to generate these profits it must be distributed in a balanced way among all those who participate in the generation of this wealth, which also helps to increase the minimum remuneration of the workers of these organizations. In addition, we propose that a set of statistical information be set out to be disclosed, in respect of the maximum, medium and minimum wage practised by each organisation, as a way to increase the scrutiny to which these organisations are required. Justice inherent in the way each organization, whether public or private, pays its workers is a matter of everyone's concern. We understand that the State must intervene for the common good whenever markets are unable to self-regulation, as is the case. But we also understand that it is up to the State, essentially the duty to intervene, whenever that means correcting situations of manifest injustice. This is also the expectation that most Portuguese people have, that public authorities take measures to reduce wage inequalities, to improve the way in which wealth is distributed and to make society more just. That is the path which the Socialist Party is proposing, and that is the path which Parliament must follow, with the approval of this same proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u33	I would ask the parliamentary groups to sign up. Members who wish to speak on this matter and I thank the CDS for having done so. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is now proposing to the Government that it set a proportional limit for wage disparity within each organization. Make it clear: the successive wage disparity, especially the one that does not take account of the merit of workers, concerns the CDS, which is available to discuss the best solutions for the distribution of labour income to be fairer. However, what the CDS is not available is to align with demagogic, populist and politically hypocritical solutions. [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]] It is demagogic, because the PS considers that IRS taxation is insufficient to solve this problem, so it resolves that it wants to penalise companies and their managers. The PS thinks he owns the economy, he thinks he owns all companies in the country. And this is a solution even to the socialist: what the PS wants is to level below, is to punish. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Why does the PS not fulfil its primary responsibility, the responsibility of the government, which is to create conditions for companies to better pay their workers, to raise the income of their workers? Oh, my God! But did it not happen to you that there are mechanisms, particularly in tax matters, that could be used? Oh, my God! Do you think that we should penalise ourselves with IRS the extraordinary hours that are made by the workers? Oh, my God! And, in relation to the premiums paid to the workers, do you want to discuss the tax that must be made on these same prizes? We are available to do so, but that is not the solution you are presenting! What we see is that you are not concerned about encouraging the best wages of workers based on their merit in companies. That is why we say that this is populism at its worst! The PS, I repeat, thinks it owns all the companies operating in Portugal, are Portuguese, private, foreign capital, and does not care — even worse! — to set an example in public enterprises. Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I do not need to mention here the obscene wages that were paid in socialist government times to public managers with broken companies and that had no results that would allow them to pay those wages! Do you want me to tell you company names? Oh, my God! And now you're saying you're worried about the salaries paid to the public managers? Oh, my God! So why did they vote against the CDS proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u35	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u36	... the draft laws of the CDS, to limit the maturity of public managers to 90 % of the salary of Mr. President of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u37	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u38	Why did they vote against? You didn't bother at that time? Why is it that, in relation to the General Deposit Box, when the CDS here made proposals to limit the salaries, you also voted against?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u39	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u40	That is why, Mr President, they come at the end of the legislature with a draft resolution in this sense can only be justified by pure political hypocrisy and because the elections are really getting closer. I am very sorry that this is so, Mr, because this is not a debate that is being held seriously by the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u41	Since no one has responded to the call for registration, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Gonçalves, to close the debate if you understand it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u42	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u43	No one had responded to the Bureau's call to sign up, something that must happen, as we know, until the end of the initiative proposer's intervention. For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a draft resolution by the Socialist Party which aims to recommend to the Government, which supports, which establishes mechanisms to limit wage disparities. This is a matter, I have already said and I repeat, which deserves our discussion and the deepening committed to serious solutions that effectively combat wage inequalities. The PSD will always be available for serious reflection on this subject, but, of course, we do not embark on simple fantasies and solutions, such as this one presented to us. In fact, it is surprising that the Socialist Party — who, for the most part, assumes this concern and says that it is included in its electoral programme — has only spent more than three years in the term of office, already at the end of the legislature, is now coming to grips with his chest and to blame me for this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u46	in the background, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is clearly the recognition of the failure of your policies over these three years. It is proved here and confessed that you have not been able to reverse or mitigate this trend that is getting worse and worse. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, wage inequalities are fighting the general increase in the lowest incomes and, in a cycle of economic growth such as this which we have been benefiting, we have found that the government has failed to correct asymmetry in income. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tax policy is, in itself, an instrument of excellence for the correction of wage inequalities. The fiscal policy which has been followed by this government, in which budget after budget, remains high the tax burden on indirect taxes, which, as you know, are blind taxes, without social sensibilities and, therefore, socially unjust, is not an appropriate policy to correct inequalities, rather, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a policy that exacerbates these wage inequalities. Therefore, in this matter, there is a need for a high level of commitment which is not enough for this Assembly of the Republic, it must leave this Assembly of the Republic, and the Democratic Social Party agrees that social dialogue is of great relevance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u48	We are very pleased that the Socialist Party has come to meet our position and now proposes that these matters have their discussion stage in social dialogue, although, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members, we all know the history of this draft resolution, which emerged when the bills were discussed, presented by the Block of the Left, on this matter, and be very clear, as it was also at the time that the Socialist Party remembered social consultation as an escape valve to not have to take a position.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u49	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. Social dialogue is only relevant to the Socialist Party when it is politically convenient for it to not have to make decisions, and that is what happened. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u51	The Social Democratic Party, on the contrary, argues that all matters in this area should be discussed and further discussed in social consultation, where the level of commitment is high and is more consistent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u52	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the setting of a limit on wage disparity in companies is a logic to combat the inequalities contained in the Government Programme, and I agree with it in general. Although this measure can be implemented by tax, as has already been mentioned, the proposed model is also possible. It imposes a limit on all companies and penalises those who do not. This penalisation takes place through a worsening of its contribution to social security and by limiting access to public support. It should be noted, however, that the implementation of this measure should refer to the average wage — and not the average wage, as the project shows — of workers. The project says « minimum, medium and maximum » and should say « minimum, medium and maximum ». In addition to penalty mechanisms, there should be the establishment of mechanisms to encourage compliance. Here, setting a bonus criterion for public procurement may be the most appropriate one. To conclude, these issues can and should only be made with the commitment of social dialogue and a clear distinction between companies in the public sector and private enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u54	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting to discuss a topic on wage disparities, a PS proposal, with the PSD agreement and with Paulo Trigo Pereira saying that it needs to be discussed in social consultation shows as soon as we are discussing a proposal that nothing will change very significantly. In fact, wage disparities are not distractions of the employers, the employers do not practice them, because they have become distracted, paying different wages. in recent years, in our country, has increased the difference between the salaries of administrators and workers and no one can deny that this difference is scandalous. In 2017, the presidents of the board of directors of the PSI-20 companies gained, on average, 46 times more than the average cost their companies took with the workers, i.e. a worker would be obliged to work 46 years to earn the value that the chairman of the board of directors earns in one year. We cannot therefore also say that problems and differences are not only wage, but above all between capital and labour and their respective incomes. At the end of September 2018, we discussed a bill with the same purpose as this draft resolution that the PS now presents. at the time, we said that the proposal under discussion reported a problem, but it did not point to an effective solution; it referred to the government to the definition of wage leques, without ensuring its application, for example, to groups of social communication, to the football sector, among others; it did not guarantee the application to multinational companies based outside the country, which, in addition to paying in Portugal, can pay wages to the same managers from another country; it did not guarantee a very important thing, which was that the reduction of wage leques would result in a real increase of wages for all workers, starting with those who take the lowest wages; and it did not guarantee that the reduction of wages would not result in a fiction that the remuneration of managers was reduced, while the wages of workers were still harmless, with the injustice that this entailed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u57	We are now putting all these objections to the PS draft resolution which, at present — in September, a short time ago! — we have noted with regard to the draft law, discussed here, of the Left Block, adding that we want to attach this question to the veto of employers' confederations, in social consultation, as if the employers wanted to discuss measures that prevent the scandalous practice of pay payments as disparate as today's ones. Exactly for this reason, we understand that the priority is not this discussion but, yes, the general increase in wages for all workers, the Public and Private Administration, being central to the increase in the minimum wage, as, moreover, we proposed that it increase to 650 € from January 2019. We also want here to point out something that seems to us deeply perverse. We note that there are wage disparities that should not happen, and the PS resolves this by aggravating companies, in the form of social security contributions, saying that there can be no wage disparities but that if there is an increase in contributions there can already be wage disparities. It seems to us that this has to be discussed seriously and not with proposals in this regard. Obviously, we will be here to make this discussion committed, never forgetting that we are discussing wage issues that certainly imply a class conflict between employers and workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u58	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u59	I'm done now, Mr. President. No, this is not a matter of distraction, this is a matter of class choice and the PCP will not fail to look at this matter as it is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u60	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the executive presidents of the companies of the PSI-20, in Portugal, exceeded the period of crisis and troika with an increase of 49, 7 % in their wages. in this period, the workers lost, on average, between 6 % and 10 % of their salary. Wage inequality in some of these companies more than doubled between 2010 and 2018. It is the example of Jerome Martins, where Pedro Soares dos Santos wins in two days what a worker of the same company earns in one year. in Pingo Doce, a worker who earns the minimum wage has to work more than 300 years to earn the same as the manager of your company. This is not fair, this is unacceptable, this has no justification! Francisco Lacerda, the manager who is currently destroying the CTT and proposes that there are 48 municipalities without post station in Portugal, is the same manager who earns a supersonic salary of 900 000 € per year. A CTT worker has to work 106 years to win the same as Francisco Lacerda wins in one year. Portugal is not only the fourth country with the greatest wage inequality in Europe, it is the country in which this inequality has not stopped growing, it is the country in which one quarter of the national wealth is concentrated by 1% of the population. There is no link between these absolutely astronomical wages and the performance of companies, either in operational terms or in terms of their quote on the Stock Exchange. We know that no measure alone ends with inequality. We need tax measures on income and wealth. We need public policies to distribute wealth. We need collective hiring, able to raise wages without blackmailing expiry. We need to increase the minimum wage. States, as a regulatory body of the economy, can and should do more. This is what the Left Block proposed in September this year, that a compulsory wage gap should be fixed and that any public support, tax benefits, contracts or public terminations should be excluded from any public support, companies which did not respect it. This was the measure that the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS dropped in September. Today, the Socialist Party gives us a recommendation, which is basically to make Parliament take no concrete decision, but not to recommend a debate on the subject in social dialogue. This is, in fact, a recommendation that makes Parliament resonate with an agreement of the bosses, which we already know does not exist, to take this action. The Socialist Party even believes that it is with the agreement of Francisco de Lacerda, Pedro Soares dos Santos, Pino Doce or Antonio Mexia, of EDP, that wage inequalities will be combated? Someone believes it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It's like asking the cook to decide together with the chicken what I was going to do for dinner! No one believes that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we, the Left Block, continue to propose that wage inequality be combated and that a maximum proportion be established between the lowest wage and the highest wage within the same company. We understand that Parliament can and should decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u62	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u63	That is why, because Parliament can and should decide on this matter and should not be held hostage by the veto of employers, we will rightly insist on the possibility of Parliament making a law that really fights wage inequalities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u64	To conclude the debate, Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I appreciate the contributions that have been made. Let us take them into account, one more than the other, necessarily. Mr José Soeiro, in the proposal he presented in September, the Left Block recognizes that this is a complex matter and that it must be regulated by the Government. This was also envisaged in this proposal, when it is assumed that the government is to define not only the wage leques that are defined for each of the sectors of activity, but also the form of penalisation of companies, after the implementation of this proposal. What the Socialist Party defends, precisely because this is a complex matter and in line with what had been discussed in the Socialist Party Congress and approved for more than two years in that same Congress, is that this matter goes first through social consultation, especially in relation to the establishment of a proportional ratio. Our proposal does not contain only this, however, but we believe that this issue should go through social dialogue, not so that Parliament is renouncing social dialogue, but because we think that this is the mechanism that favours consultation between the various sectors of our society and because we want a robust law, which is proof of all kinds of creativity, and which must therefore also pass on to the social dialogue in the first place. We understand that this is a first step for Portugal to legislate on wage inequalities. I want to tell the sides of the Social Democratic Party and the CDS that this government that values the factor « work ». This government has increased the minimum wage. It was this government that took away careers in the Public Administration. It was this government that made the taxes more progressive, increasing the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons). [[PSD laughter.]] It was this government that lowered the tax burden on those with lower incomes or that launched a large program to regularize precarious links in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u66	No one has said that, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u67	However, if you live well with wage inequalities, which we have been talking about today, that is there with you, and you will vote in accordance with that thought. What we understand is that companies today already have the means to pay their workers better. Today, companies already have the right to do so and do not do it on their own. Therefore, if there is a failure in the way the market is self-regulated, it is up to the State to intervene so that companies are forced to comply with measures, which are of the broadest social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u69	That is why the Socialist Party submits this proposal. We look forward to it being approved, because it is clearly worth a truly broad consensus in this Parliament, so that in a second phase we can legislate on this matter and make this issue much more fair from a social point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u70	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, with the general discussion of Bill Nos 1050 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Legalizes the cannabis for personal use and 1062 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the adult use of cannabis. To present your legislative initiative, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor. [[Pause.]] One moment, sir. I ask the parliamentary groups to take into account the following appeal: during the speech of the speaker, anyone who wishes to use the word, please sign up for it. Please, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A responsible country does not allow traffickers to define the rules of production, access and consumption of the one that is the most illicit substance consumed in Portugal — cannabis. If the State refuses to regulate this reality, then whoever regulates it will be the traffickers, as we know, with enormous damage to society. Illegality is the drug dealer's paradise. So they do what they want, as they like. Legality, which is what the Left Block proposes with this bill, that, yes, is the guarantee of public safety and health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u73	A responsible country, with a responsible policy, does not ignore the reality, does not ignore that there are half a million people in Portugal who use cannabis regularly; that these people are pushed into contact with traffickers, without their personal security; that these people are exposed to substances often adulteryd, synthetic, without any control, which are infinitely more dangerous to their health. A responsible country does not ignore the fact that there is no reported consumption in illegality; on the contrary, there is only misinformation, and problematic consumption patterns tend only to be encouraged. in a responsible country, it is not ignored that in illegality all problems get worse. Knowing all this, then, what to do? That is the question which is put to Parliament today. Leave everything at the same time? Sweep under the rug? To continue to pretend that it is all right, even if national and international reality proves, every day, the opposite? No, that's not a solution, it's just hypocrisy. What to do, then? Legalize! Legalizing cannabis is the responsible solution; legalizing combating traffic networks; legalizing, as proposed by the Left Block, allows control of production, prevents product adultery and allows until the State limits the level and concentration of THC (tetrahydrocanabinol) ; legalising establishes access and purchase rules that protect consumers and obliges informed consumption. Legalizing is not liberalizing. Liberalization is what exists now, where you buy, sell and consume without any kind of rules. Legalize is safe, as international realities demonstrate. In states of the United States, where legalization has been done longer, the data speak for themselves: there was no increase in consumption, there were no significant medical emergencies related to exposure to cannabis; in fact, there was a reduction in consumption and deaths related to the consumption of opiates. Security, health, information, responsibility—this is what is promoted by the bill of the Left Block. in this discussion, these values are condensed into a verb: legalize. Do we want to promote health? Legalize. Do we want to protect health? We must legalize. Do we want to minimize the risks? Legalize. Do we want to promote informed consumption? Legalize. The responsibility is to legalize and that is what the Left Block proposes. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u74	To present your legislative initiative, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has taken important and pioneer steps in dealing with dependencies. in fact, the approval of Law No. 30 / 2000, which described consumption, did not lead to substantial increases in drug use, noting a reduction in drug use that presented a higher individual and social risk. Still, cannabis has been the illicit substance that records the highest prevalence of consumption throughout life and the increase in some age groups, so it is necessary to continue a work of alerting and sensitizing the population to the impacts of consumption of this substance. It is also important to reflect whether the total ban on its sale is the best way to achieve this goal. The current picture benefits from illegal trade, specifically drug trafficking. Substances sold are not subject to any control and are absolutely unknown to the consumer to the origin of the cannabis or its level of THC concentration, which implies increased risks to consumption and public health. The NAP presents concrete proposals for a serious and free debate, on a path that must involve several representatives of society, which aims to reduce dependence in our country, combat drug trafficking, prevent and treat addiction more effectively and increase levels of information for the health and safety of all. in this measure, the NAP proposal provides that only from 18 years of age is allowed to acquire or produce cannabis; that cultivation be authorised by the competent authority and subject to supervision; that retail sale occurs in pharmaceuticals, neutral sales points, where a public service is provided, with informed professionals and empowered to provide any types of clarifications necessary, in particular with regard to potential health risks; that it is prohibited to advertise cannabis products; that only Portuguese citizens or foreign citizens with residence permits in Portugal may proceed to purchase cannabis, preventing tourism related to the consumption of narcotic drugs. It is therefore intended to regulate consumption, but it is intended to reflect an adult, free and informed use.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u76	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initial explanation of the draft laws of the Left Block and the NAP on cannabis consumption is clear, rigorous and relevant. It shows that today’s society has to address a challenge that affects hundreds of thousands of national citizens, millions of people from outside the world, and represents a pernicious business of hundreds of billions of euros. Several examples are given from countries such as Uruguay, Canada and some of the American states, where the use of cannabis for recreational purposes has already been legalized. I myself have been in Colorado and Canada recently, where I spoke with citizens and professionals engaged in these experiences. The legalization of the consumption of many drugs has history. Concern regarding the abuse of alcohol and tobacco consumption, as well as other medicines considered legal, evokes highly divergent opinions, some based on current scientific knowledge, others based on known ideological positions and others, also based on a broad range of personal experiences. Fortunately, the information we already have gives us a relatively robust level of safety, but we also know that some of the medium and long-term effects remain unknown. Why? Because such studies take time, involve extended populations and we don't always know what we are looking for, which makes it hard to finance. We know that we should protect pregnant women, but we do not know the effects of active cannabis ingredients on reproductive tissues in young people and adults and how plasticity and regenerative capacity of brain tissues are affected. We are unaware of the biological and social factors that lead to the progression to more "hard" drugs. The protection of young people up to 18 years old has a legal but not scientific basis, and can lead illicit traffic for this population. at this moment, thousands of researchers are looking for answers to these questions. The socialist governments have a long tradition of not being afraid to face challenges in the area of drugs and the PS has always been in line with that innovation. The 2001 law, based on the national strategy of the fight against drug addiction, was not only immensely innovative and courageous as it, over two decades, is serving as a model in many countries. The law on the use of cannabis for medical purposes, published in 2018 and regulated this year, is another example of this courage to innovate. But precisely because it is a very recent law and because the few experiences of liberalisation are also recent, we would like to be more prudent, to have time to accumulate more reliable data that can help to better assess the impact of these measures. It is not surprising that the Left Block and the PAN are two of the parties that most invoke the need to apply the precautionary principle in the most varied domains, do not want to apply it in this case, where many public health effects are still little known. in this case, the PS believes that this principle deserves to be invoked. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u78	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects we are discussing today refer to electoral programmes, ideological options for Members, empirical evidence and the practical dimension of the Portuguese case. Should the law prohibit the consumption and moderate production of cannabis? Or should the individual decide whether to eat? I am a moderate left-handed social liberal and answer this question saying that it must be the individual to decide. Canabis increases the probability of psychotic outbreaks and tobacco increases the probability of lung cancer. However, the overall level of cannabis toxicity is lower than that of tobacco and alcohol, with these more serious impacts on public health and society. What is needed — and I support what Alexandre Quintanilla said — is more analysis, more studies, training, information, regulation and supervision. Today, it is not a crime to possession and moderate consumption of cannabis and, in June 2018, this House approved, by a large majority, its drug use. It happens that the PS — and I was elected on PS lists — did not mention this topic in its electoral program. The following direction is therefore very clear. I believe that we must move towards liberalization, with progressive, sustained and politically transparent steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u80	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u81	I believe that this issue should be included in the electoral programmes and so I will abstain from voting on these projects tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two bills on the issue of the legalization of cannabis use and The Greens would like to say that they consider it very important to separate the use of cannabis for medical purposes and its recreational or personal consumption, as we wish to designate. When projects relating to the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes were discussed, The Greens voted in favour of a controlled and prescribed consumption by doctors. Today, this is not what we are discussing, but, yes, the recreational and personal use and the possibility of cultivation. However, this is not the first time that this question has been put in this way, it comes to the Assembly of the Republic. I recall that the Block presented, in the past legislature, the Bills Nos. 403 / XII / 2. a e 880 / XII / 4. a, which aimed to legalize the cultivation of cannabis for personal use and framed the canabis social clubs. Now, with Law Projects Nos 1050 and 1062 / XIII / 4. the, which are under discussion, goes further than the projects I mentioned earlier, in the logic of the form of consumption. I would like to say that the Greens will maintain their vote on the draft earlier legislation, i.e. abstention. We are sensitive to various arguments and, if we are serious in this discussion, there are valid arguments on both sides. Legalization is not effectively a strategy for reducing consumption, but to prohibit without a reduction and treatment strategy also does not produce results to this end. On health effects, if we are serious in the discussion, we know that there are studies for all tastes. One issue that must also be put on the table and discussed, given its relevance, is that of trafficking in the criminal world versus security in acquisition and consumption. On the other hand, there are concerns that are also legitimate, such as those concerning facilitation in the provision of cannabis, the experiences that are made with respect to this product, whether or not they can transport and incite other types of addictions and addictions. We also know that there are multinationals with economic interests in the legalization of cannabis. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are multiple arguments and the Greens are sensitive to them. What I wanted to ask was to read this Greens abstention as a form of caution in the progress we want to promote, but also as a predisposition for the debate to take place here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of this initiative confirms the evaluation made by the PCP a year ago, when discussing the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes; that is, the real intention of BE was not to approve its medical use, but rather to open the way for the total legalization of the cannabis. More: the discussion of this proposal was scheduled without the effective application of the law, since it was published and regulated only two days ago. The PCP fully disagrees with the BE and PAN proposals. We do not agree with concepts that devalue the danger of drug use and, in my view, cannabis use.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u86	Or alcohol!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u87	Canabis consumption, contrary to what is often said, is not harmless, causes passivity, demotivation and leads to aggravation of psychic problems. Cannabis consumption, for example, interferes with the study, work and driving of machines and vehicles. At the same time, the tendency of cannabis consumption in the country cannot be underestimated, as is evidenced by the reports of SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ). There has been an increase in the prevalence of abuse and frequent consumption, as well as an increase in the population with symptoms of dependence on their consumption. The proponents support their initiatives in international experiences, particularly in the American continent. however, contrary to what is intended to make believe, studies are still scarce, contradictory or non-existent. The initiatives now under discussion contradict Portugal's path towards reducing consumption among younger populations, reducing problematic consumption, including intravenous consumption, and reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) among drug-dependent populations, and contradicting the humanist spirit underlying the Portuguese model, which has led to its recognition and prestige in many countries. For the CFP, what would result from any approval of the legislative proposals of BE and the NAP would be the liberalisation of the trade in cannabis and the expansion of its consumption and sale. The objective of safeguarding Portuguese health and safety is absolutely unattainable in this framework. The CFP believes it is important for our country to pay attention to the evolution of the international framework in this regard, the different existing models and their studies and results. However, at present, the challenge facing the country is to continue and intensify the national strategy for the prevention and treatment of additive behaviours and addictions. Therefore, the CFP requires an effective strengthening of the services and the national structure, in order to fully carry out its mission and extend its response. For the PCP, it is also a priority to comply with the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic that recommend updating and deepening the scientific study on the effect of cannabis consumption on health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u88	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss two proposals, one from the Left Block and the other from the NAP, which aim to legalize the cannabis for recreational purposes, proposals, those that allow the autoculture of the plant. It is worth remembering — as has already been said — that we are not discussing the legalization of cannabis for medicinal purposes. This reality has already been discussed here and is now properly framed, being well clarified cases, fortunately limited, in which there is a specific indication for this medicinal use. Today, we are discussing a very serious issue, which has nothing to be mild or harmless, a subject that concerns the use of a substance that is clearly dangerous, that does not bring health benefits, which can irreversibly compromise the health of its consumers and achieve the common good, reach society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u91	What about alcohol? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u92	We do not talk about confabulation, we speak of evidence, because the negative effects are well known and, I insist, dangerous and irreversible that cannabis consumption can lead to, with truly destroyed lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u93	What about alcohol? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u94	So we can't see...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u95	What about alcohol? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u96	What about the game? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u97	What about casinos? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u98	If you'll let me finish... [[BE's protests.]] As I said, we cannot argue that something that has such a pernicious effect associated with it can be a good in itself. [[BE's protests.]] I understand that it bothers you, but you have to have a more democratic practice, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u100	They are as credible organizations as the SICAD, the Directorate-General for Health, the professional orders that lead us to have this attitude and consistent position. So it's not anything based on prejudice or whim.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u101	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u102	We don't move any prejudices,... [[BE's laughs.]] ... moves us the concern about public health, which should also move you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u104	So this is the central issue. There is no evidence that the legalization of cannabis in the two countries where it happened and in the few states of the United States where it occurs has contributed to the reduction of consumption, which is what we really need to achieve. [[Protests of BE Members.]] For us, it is clear that the strategy is not about legalization, but about the intensification of consumer deterrence policies. Therefore, we do not understand that legalization corresponds to any social premence; social premence is the reduction of consumption and the harmful consequences that any psychiatry service will easily tell you that it knows and that many families of Portuguese, unfortunately, know. Having said this, because we do not want to increase more business around the consumption of a harmful substance and because we have no evidence of benefit... [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u105	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u106	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, because we have no evidence of benefit in relation to cannabis consumption for recreational purposes, even more through autoculture, we will vote against these proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u107	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Left Block and the PAN on their initiatives, which allow us to have this extremely important debate on drug policy in our country. If, in fact, in the post-revolutionary period, the country has been plunged into a problematic drug-consumption crisis, which culminated in more than 100 000 Portuguese heroin consumption, leading to an increase in crime and the adverse consequences of the destruction of the social fabric. This country had the courage in 2000 to decriminalize drug use, which, contrary to those against it, had the impact of reducing crime, reducing consumption, in the sense that the increase in consumption is always below the European Union average, increasing the success of rehabilitation by leaving focus on criminalization and focusing on a public health strategy, giving consumers the opportunity to have access to health services with dependent problems. It was a fundamental step that puts Portugal on the front line today. If there were any doubts about the difficulties that the banist model brings, it was sufficient to hear the words of the former President of Colombia, who was responsible for the capture and death of drug traffickers Pablo Escobar, in the following sense: « We have erred. Overall, we are wrong to take prohibitionism as the way to solve the drug problem." This takes us to the canabis. Cannabis today accounts for half of the revenue of traffickers worldwide. In a market of EUR 300 billion, half lives on cannabis and therefore we have to take this forward. It is true that there are doubts and that many of them turn out to be a drug that is now in the sphere of illegality. The Social Democratic Party assumed that this was a priority and at the last congress it admitted that it had to present a solution, looking at the various realities and the studies that have been produced. There are cautions that need to be taken from the point of view of regulation, cautions regarding age, cautions regarding the models of prohibitionism as regards the way in which the product is sold and through which institutions. A number of proposals were therefore put forward, in particular that the discussion could be held in the field of technical debate. The Left Block and the PAN present projects that include the issue of autoculture. What was debated at the time was that it would be essential that any solution to be developed could guarantee the regulation of the seed to the end consumer, so as to ensure that all risks could be mitigated to the fullest extent. The autoculture does not allow it objectively, in addition to a set of other regulatory difficulties that the projects presented here bring us. So here is the appeal and I would even say the test, the cotton test, if you want, for the Left Block and for the PAN : of two, one, or want to make this debate a serious debate to check, listening to the competent entities, if it is possible, from a technical point of view, to consensualize positions and develop a bill that may deserve the extended support of this Chamber, of the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u109	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u110	... or if, on the contrary, they want to do only the political 'number' and force the vote where we, by virtue of the autoculture, can do nothing but vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u111	We're in democracy! There's still the specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u112	It is also in your hands to allow the technical debate to proceed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u113	They approve and discuss in the Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u114	To close the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for the various interventions. We are in 2019, at the beginning of the year, it is true, but many of the arguments used here date back to the beginning of the millennium, when the decriminalization of consumption in Portugal was discussed. As it is seen almost two decades later, many of these arguments that « will increase consumption », that « will be liberalisation », or, as at the time it was said, mainly by the CDS-PP, that « will be the paradise of traffickers », nothing has happened ; on the contrary, the benefits are many, the positive results are many and undeniable. In 2019, it is appropriate not to make the argumentary error that was used by some and some, at the beginning of the millennium, because neither of this will happen with legalization. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing whether we allow the introduction of cannabis in Portugal or whether we allow consumption. I have something new to give you: there are already cannabis, there is already consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u116	Many years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u117	So we're not discussing whether she's harmless or not, we know we don't. What we are discussing is that there are people who make this consumption, but because of the illegality in which they are doing it, this consumption is infinitely more dangerous than if it were regulated and legalized. That's what we're discussing here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing whether we legalize to protect safety, protect health and promote informed consumption. That's just it! In fact, the Portuguese Communist Party has even said — the cotton test — that is illegal, but has increased consumption in recent years. Now, there's proof of cotton: illegality doesn't work. So, let's face the reality: let's legalize and work on the subject. Finally, I will tell Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite the following: it is a responsible discussion that we want to have, a serious discussion and, therefore, we want to legalize. We are, of course, available to, with all parties, with technical inputs, with technical information, we will change our proposals, we will make amendments to our proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u118	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u119	I will now finish, Mr President. What we tell the PSD is that we approve this project now, in general,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u120	We don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u121	...and, in the specialty, we work on it, with the entire opening of the Left Block on the autoculture and on all aspects of this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u122	We will move to the fourth point of our order of business, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 436 / XIII / 3. a ( Live Animals Anti-Transport Platform ) — Abolition of the transport of live animals by sea to countries outside the European Union, together with in general with the Bill No 719 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Takes more animal welfare measures with regard to the transport of live animals, with Resolution Projects Nos 1214 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a regime in which the transport of live animals via long-term travel to third countries is permitted only in exceptional situations, 1215 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it do not include in the programmes to support livestock production the allocation of any public incentive to livestock production undertakings exporting live animals to third countries and 1594/13 / 3. a ( The Greens) — Limitation and adaptation of the transport of live animals and also with Bill No 1051 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — regulates the long-term transport of live animals. To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the petitioners for bringing this matter to Parliament. If in 2015 we exported about 10 000 animals, already in 2017 they were more than 150 000. It is clear that Council Regulation ( 1 / 2005 ), which explicitly states that, for reasons of animal welfare, the transport of animals on long-term journeys, including the transport of slaughter animals, should be limited as far as possible. Travel to Israel, for example, lasts, on average, nine days. Bad treatment takes place and complaints also. The Portuguese Government's disregard for these animals is evident. It is therefore important to give them greater legal protection. The NAP proposes that at least one veterinary physician be present on board; prohibit the export of animals to countries whose slaughter rules are extremely violent; increase in the number of inspectors of DGAV (General Food and Veterinary Directorate) on board or that ships should be equipped with stabilizers plates; finally, we advocate that the State should refuse to finance the animal production activity when they are intended for export rather than for national consumption and that Portugal ceases to promote this type of business with live animals, whether for legal or ethical reasons. It is false that the export of animals has contributed to the dynamisation of rural areas. on the contrary, it is only a business for some, consisting of about six large producers that strangle small farmers who do not have any ability to compete. I recall that the Members of the PS, the PSD and the PCP, as good representatives of the CAP ( Confederation of Agriculture Ministers of Portugal ) in Parliament, refused to listen to small producers in the Committee on Agriculture. The PS, PSD, CDS and PCP are nothing more in this debate than the political commissioners of cattle kings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u124	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u125	... to whom only the economic advantage is concerned, even if the profit is made at the cost of animal suffering. This is beyond the strong environmental impacts of livestock production. I recall that the Minister of the Environment has already stated the need to reduce livestock by 2050. It therefore seems to us that the country continues to promote the production of animals for export and, above all, we pay for this, contributing to an ethically distorted business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u126	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u127	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the protection and welfare of livestock, nothing new in Parliament. For PS, PSD, CDS and PCP are always all right, the worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u128	To present the legislative initiative of The Greens, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence of local consumption and food production is an ecological maxim that aims to move towards a society where production is made according to consumption needs rather than the disposal or economic interests. Local consumption and food production carries with it enormous environmental, social and economic advantages, mainly because it dispenses transport mainly long-term, but also in reducing CO2 emissions. Benefits also to small producers in the possibility of dynamising rural areas, ensuring better product quality, as well as to natural resources which can be preserved because they are not under the yoke of an intensive production model. In other words, animal breeding, slaughtering of animals and meat preparation/processing should be carried out as close as possible to each other, on a productive and commercial circuit of proximity. It is not entirely acceptable for animals to be transported from country to country, hours by end, under often deplorable conditions, by grossly compromising animal welfare. in fact, when we talk about this animal transport, we talk about trips, especially by sea, that last 6, 12 or even 20 days. And the worst thing is that often in conditions of overcrowding, without the necessary ventilation, without conditions of safety and hygiene, there are animals coming to the destination with serious injuries and some even dead ones. This is why we are concerned about the relationship between the transport of live animals and the necessary preservation of animal welfare. Furthermore, this transport can increase the risk of transmission and spread of diseases and cause levels of stress and suffering to animals, which eventually affect the quality and safety of meat that reaches consumers. Thus, and considering the importance of taking action not only to reduce but also to improve the conditions for the transport of live animals, the Greens bring a legislative initiative, without any fundamentalism, for the Government to draw up a specific report on the application of European and national rules on the transport of live animals; to establish as a rule the maximum limit of 8 hours for the travel time of animals intended for slaughter, either by road or by sea; to ensure that, in cases of exceptional travel authorisation for more than 8 hours, there is a substantial reduction in the volume of transport; and to promote awareness and training actions, with producers and transporters, on the appropriate treatment of animals and the promotion of animal welfare. With this proposal, The Greens intend to make their contribution to animal welfare and, at the same time, to meet the concerns expressed in the petition that prompted this discussion and whose subscribers, as well as the Anti-Transport Platform for Live Animals ( PATAV ), which I take advantage of, on behalf of the Greens, to greet. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u130	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating PATAV, which has made a remarkable visibility of the problem of ill-treatment and public health in the transport of live animals. Then I read two phrases that I hope you will hear well and internalize. The first says: « For reasons of animal welfare, the transport of animals on long-term journeys, including the transport of slaughter animals, should be limited as far as possible ». The second says: “No one can proceed or send animals to be transported under conditions which may cause them unnecessary injury or suffering”. These are two statements of Regulation No 1 / 2005 of the European Council. This Regulation also defines as long-term travel all travel exceeding 8 hours. In the transport of live animals originating in Portugal, it is also the responsibility of the Portuguese State to ensure and monitor the conditions of the ships carrying the animals, preventing the continuation of these trips, which do not guarantee the minimum conditions of animal welfare and public health, and must also guarantee the conditions on board the ship throughout the journey, and this is not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u132	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u133	Nevertheless, there are repeated complaints about dead animals that give to the coast, of animals that come in very bad shape to the destination and of irregularities on board. in this sense, in the lack of implementation of a slaughter system in Portugal for further transport of meat, which would be the most obvious, it is urgent to define legislation that guarantees the minimum of animal welfare, but also of the public health and consumption of these foods in destination. To this end we propose the existence of at least one veterinarian on board, but also of more space for animals and veterinarians to circulate, as defined by the European Food Safety Authority. It is also necessary to ensure that there are no animal mutilations and the existence of adequate food and a necessary life and a plan for cleaning a system of flow, ventilation and own spaces for medical-veterinary intervention. if these conditions do not occur, the transport must be cancelled and the animals must be transported to a shelter place under appropriate conditions, which we find simple and sensible. That is, in fact, the minimum, and it is in this simplicity and wisdom that you will understand the line between defending animal welfare and public health and that of the large producers who treat animals worse than cars do. These are not my words, sirs. Members, these words are from the Setúbal summerers, who watch these boardings every time they are carried out in the Setúbal port. So, what we present here is a measure so that the sun will not hit with the sieve and we will take responsibility for not letting these boats drift away. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u134	Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners first hand and saying that the draft laws, draft resolutions and petition present today to the discussion require that more restrictive measures be adopted in the transport and export by sea of live animals from Portugal, and that the purpose of these proposals is to prohibit the export of live animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u136	We didn't say that! It's the rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u137	The PS is, as it has always been, a defender of the measures aimed at animal welfare and is demanding that legal conditions of transport be always ensured.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u138	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u139	Starting in 2014, Portugal is today an exporting country of live animals to the Middle East, with more than 100 boardings in a total of more than 0, 5 million livestock heads. These animals are grown extensively, mostly by many small producers in the country. These exports of animals have led to price stability since then, in some cases, the sustainability of these farms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u140	Talk about the transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u141	Yes, sir. Members, we do not create livestock to admire them, we create livestock for slaughter intended to feed human beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u142	Get the fuck out of
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u143	This is the truth! Clearly, this market helps keep farms in the interior, which would otherwise be unviable and therefore contribute to fixing people in the rural world. Why? Because with profitable livestock farms people look, because the people who live inside don't live from the air, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they live with good recommendations. It's the defense of the rural world I'm talking to you. [[BE's protests.]] Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: it is the defense of the rural world that I speak to you. More: the maintenance of this market increases the guarantees of animal health, as the animals exported remain quarantined and are subject to a pool of analyses that prove their health and well-being. Yes, sir. Members, exports of live animals must continue. Why do we not consider it necessary to amend the legislation in force? Community regulations on this matter are demanding and are being complied with.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u144	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u145	The Directorate-General for Agriculture and Veterinary Services shall accompany transport and boarding, ensuring compliance with the law. Proof of this is the prohibition of some ships operating in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u146	Um!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u147	... for lack of conditions, in a total of 101 boardings, which allowed the export of 648 607 livestock heads, 184 651 cattle and 463 956 sheep. They died during the trip, on average, five sheep and 1, 5 cattle per boarding, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're talking about! of destination, only four notifications of 101 trips made of dirty animals have arrived in our country. Portugal is a good example and we must therefore demand that the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Veterinary, if possible, maintain the monitoring and control of the conditions of the vessel and its crew. We must continue to trust our producers to continue to create animals...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u148	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u149	I will conclude, sir! As I said, we must continue to trust our producers to continue to create quality animals, which are undoubtedly the main reason for the success of this market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u150	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, who today bring the debate on the transport of live animals by sea, requesting their abolition to countries outside the European Union. Certainly, the first and main concern of the petitioners will be animal welfare. However, what is now at stake here is the prohibition in practice of abolishing the transport of live animals by sea. We hoped, of course, that with this request they would seek to find and implement measures to ensure, mainly, animal welfare. What if the transport of live animals takes place within the countries of the European Union? Are the conditions under which the same is performed not relevant? What is the concern, the country of destination or the conditions of transport? For us, PCP, dignity and respect for animal welfare, as well as its safety, are concerns for which we have intervened and will continue to intervene. We have always expressed concern about animal welfare, and therefore we have always called for more means for the Ministry of Agriculture and other public entities to be able to carry out all the necessary checks and support for the legalisation of farms. For us, PCP, in the specific case of transport of live animals, whether by sea, land or otherwise, we demand the greatest and strictest compliance with national legislation, regulations and best scientific evidence in order to ensure that transport is carried out in safety and well-being of animals It is important to remember that animal welfare is also of interest to livestock producers. Therefore, to comply with the legislation and to implement the rules in the field of animal welfare and animal health is to ensure that animals reach their destination in the best conditions and thus ensure the best price, as the product is valued for quality and well-being. But we note here that the CFP will not embark on operations that aim to demonize such important productive activity for the country. We follow the concerns expressed by the draft resolution presented by the Greens Ecological Party, which are aimed at better understanding and monitoring the situation in reality. But we cannot follow measures which, on the pretext of defending animal welfare, have as a consequence major difficulties in a productive sector where, moreover, we are highly deficient. The rules exist! You follow the rules! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u152	Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I leave a word of appreciation, presenting my compliments to the petitioners for this initiative. All issues must be discussed in this House, whether they are uncomfortable or not, for this is the House of the supreme discussion of all cross-cutting issues to society. In this regard, it should be said that it is not possible at this time to abdicate the export of live animals for a period of more than eight hours. Of course not, it's impossible! Our livestock production system, already very fragile by the absence in the interior areas, would not endure, would have a negative dominant effect on the entire agricultural economy in Portugal. Therefore, it is not possible to say no to live export for more than eight hours. As has already been said, cattle exports are able to contribute to creating jobs, fixing people and combating the ageing of many areas within Portugal. Portugal therefore owes much to the production and the existing livestock production system at the moment. The population of Portugal, this House, we all effectively owe to livestock production the contribution to the existence of interior areas are still populated in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say that the legislation in force is being complied with, but we believe that this does not mean that it does not have to be improved. In other words, there are certainly situations that can and should evolve to improve animal welfare and health, something different is to prohibit, which is something that must be rejected. To improve, of course, we must all have the spirit open, the mind perfectly open to make improvements in the legislation in force. That's the way it should be. Whenever anything the legislator thinks that legislation has come to an end and does nothing, it is a legislator who has stopped in time and, of course, that we do not accept that. It is also interesting to state, so that no doubt remains, that the producer is the first and best friend of the animal,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u154	...because any producer knows that an animal that is ill-treated or that has no health is an animal that does not yield, that does not profit. Therefore, the producer cannot bear the expense and as the cost of other situations that are harmful and are that you alienate to himself. I repeat, therefore, that the producer is the first and best friend of the animal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u155	I'm so excited!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u156	It is also interesting to say the following: and I am afraid that some parties' voracity and insensitivity may evolve to ban the export of live animals, for example the Azores to the Continent or the Azores to Madeira. This would be the cluster of the clusters, but where we go and on the path of this insensitivity I no longer know... We cannot allow this trend, we cannot allow administrative ignorance to replace practical knowledge. in this case, it is even forbidden to prohibit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of initiatives resulting from a petition, whose petitioners democratically comply. The petition is very clear: it aims to abolish the transport of live animals. The arguments used to justify the petitioners' claim are, in most cases, transposed from a reality that is not ours or then left of wrong assumptions. I would also like to leave a note here to clarify that livestock is not an industry. Livestock is an economic activity of the primary sector. The transport of live animals results in exceptionality, which is the fact that they are meeting religious criteria in the countries of destination, which are very demanding criteria. This was confirmed by the Order of Veterinary Physicians in hearing in the Commission. This situation should be proud of all Portuguese, because it means that our farmers and our livestock producers meet demanding criteria and are basically with very high quality criteria, but unfortunately, for some parties, ideology speaks higher. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u159	The bills of the NAP and the Left Block basically come to propose what already exists in the current regulation, or then they propose some new things that, in our perspective, have no framework. Mr André Silva, let me tell you that in the speech that you made recently from the rostrum you again said a falsehood that I am here to correct: the CDS did not vote against the request, the CDS voted in favour of the request. So let this be clear in this House!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u160	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u161	The need for a veterinarian on board was not clear, since it was clarified in the hearings that there is no such need. However, it is clear that there is a need for training for operators on board, and that already exists. If the animals were ill-treated and traveled in conditions that were not the best, there would be no evidence of what we have already seen, i.e. a mortality rate of less than 0, 1 %. In fact, the projects have come to demand what is already required and to prohibit some of the things that are already forbidden and therefore many of them are redundant and even have some inconsistencies. For example, the NAP bill refers to stabilisation plates, when the representative of the Order of Veterinary Physicians was clear in saying that ruminants do not get sick. Therefore, these plates are not necessary for the transport of ruminants. He also spoke of the need for the transport area to have the size of 2 m2 per animal. I ask you if you can distinguish a cow from a sheep, because 2 m2 for a cow is not the same thing as 2 m2 for a sheep.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u163	In addition, he also said here that the number of inspectors should be increased in this case to four. Why four, sir? On what basis did he make that statement? [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Mr President, listen to me very calmly, because I also heard all the barbarities you said in your speech. So I ask you to democratically listen to what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u164	You mustn't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u165	The CDS is not obliged to agree with you. In fact, it seems to me that the honourable Member is in a minority in this House. Regarding the presence of a veterinary doctor at boarding and landing, as I have said recently, this need is not justified by anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u166	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u167	I conclude by saying that the only question that the CDS reiterates is that it is necessary, in order to address the increase in this economic activity, that DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) strengthens its inspection frameworks to ensure that all existing rules and those proposed here are effectively complied with. That's the only thing that's needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u168	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the fifth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 458 / XIII / 3. a ( Verónica Sofia Varela de Matos et al.) — Free medication available for spinal muscle atrophy. Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 4000 citizens who have subscribed to Petition No 458 / XIII / 3. the, whose object is the free provision of medicines for spinal muscle atrophy. Spinal muscle atrophy is a disease of low prevalence, but of great impact, manifested by muscle hypotonia and delay in psychomotor development. It has genetic origin and is characterized by muscular atrophy secondary to the degeneration of motor neurons. It is the second largest fatal recessive autosomal disorder and affects 1 in every 70,000 births, being more frequent in males and manifesting essentially between 6 and 18 months. These children are affected by muscle weakness, which predominantly affects the muscles of the lower limbs and the muscles of the trunk and symptoms of respiratory failure, scoliosis and fractures are frequent in response to minimal trauma. Spinraza is used to treat cases of spinal muscle atrophy and, although we know that it is not a cure, it contributes to substantially reducing the severity of the disease and improving the quality of life. In view of the high cost of the medicine — about €500,000 / case / year — there was a need for Infarmed to make a prior evaluation with the objective of all children with spinal atrophy may have access to the said medicine as quickly as possible, establishing the best conditions of acquisition and equity in access in good time and at the same time ensuring monitoring and control mechanisms for clinical risk. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has done what it is competing with and has approved in its Article 216 of the State Budget. the, the availability of the medicine for spinal muscle atrophy, thus ensuring financial availability so that in cases of favorable medical assessment the medicinal product intended to treat patients with type 1 and type 2 in all hospital units of the National Health Service is administered. This petition had a happy ending. There is hope for patients with spinal muscle atrophy: the current government and the Ministry of Health will make an investment of about EUR 10 million per year. This is a clear sign that the current Ministry of Health is committed to ensuring access to medicines that citizens need without needing desperate screams in the Assembly of the Republic as in other times of bad memory. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a message of confidence for all Portuguese, who know that they can count on the Socialist Party to improve their health, their quality of life and continue to make a better Portugal every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u170	Mr Luís Vales has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 4000 citizens who, precisely one year ago, submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, requesting the free supply of medicines for spinal muscle atrophy. This is a rare genetic neuromuscular disease, it is estimated that 1 case in every 70,000 people — in Portugal, affects little more than 100 patients — is more frequent in males and manifests mainly between 6 and 18 months of age. Despite its low prevalence, children affected by spinal muscular atrophy are living in a very difficult health situation, since this disease brings them great difficulties of autonomy, preventing them even from getting up and walking at the age of 1. This is therefore a disease that translates into a serious muscle weakness, which predominantly affects the legs and muscles of the trunk, and in respiratory failure, scoliosis and fractures in response to minimal trauma. In view of the seriousness and impact of this problem, the PSD could not fail to be aware and, in the preparation of the petition report today under discussion, it sought to inform the competent authorities of the possibility of satisfying the petitioners' request, i.e. of sharing the medicine used to treat cases of spinal muscle atrophy. We were then informed that the European Commission had already authorised the marketing of this medicine last year, and we were also informed that the Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) estimated that children with spinal muscular atrophy should be able to have access to this medicine even in the summer of 2018. It is true that this did not happen within the time limit, and therefore the PSD voted favourably, in the budgetary procedure, the proposal put forward by the Greens Ecological Party to be made available in all hospital units of the SNS this medicine for spinal muscle atrophy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u172	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u173	With half a year's delay in relation to the deadline, and already in the near future of publication of the State Budget law for 2019, the Ministry of Health authorized the financing of the first medicine for spinal muscle atrophy. Nevertheless, we feel that the State has done its duty before the citizens, now allowing better access to a drug needed for a disease that, being rare, does not fail to cause a profound effect to its carriers and their families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u174	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition which we are now discussing and which has an impact on a matter as important as spinal muscle atrophy. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns and purposes of the petitioners, because, in fact, as mentioned in the petition text, spinal muscle atrophy is a rare progressive and degenerative neuromuscular disease that is revealed by 6 months of age, or even before, but whose symptoms can also be revealed later, usually until about 18 months of age. As is easily understood, the emergence and availability of a drug that can help children with spinal muscular atrophy represents a more than legitimate expectation for these children, but also for their parents and mothers, in order to reduce future complications to those who suffer from this disease and to guarantee them more quality of life. That is precisely the feeling that is translated in the petition we are now discussing, whose object is « Help save the life of carriers of spinal muscle atrophy! A fatal disease! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In this regard, I remember that the Greens have been in solidarity, from the first hour, with the parents and mothers of children with spinal muscular atrophy. But they did not just express their solidarity, we actually committed ourselves and act immediately in this House of the Republic to make the medicine authorised by the European Medicines Agency, which is virtually inaccessible, and we feared that it could achieve considerable value, taking into account experiences from other countries, become accessible in our country. in this sense, Les Verdes presented, in March of last year, a legislative initiative, which was approved unanimously, which intended to make this medicine accessible in the units of the National Health Service. Later, but still during 2018, we questioned the government about the progress of this process on two occasions. Finally, during the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, and in the face of the government's liabilities with regard to the fulfilment of the Greens initiative, we actively battled to include in the Budget the guarantee of financial availability for the administration of the medicinal product intended to treat spinal muscle atrophy to patients with type 1 and type 2 in all hospital units of the National Health Service. And the Greens proposal even ended up being included in the State budget for 2019. That is why we must congratulate ourselves on having made an important and fundamental contribution to the resolution of this serious problem which is the central object of this petition, whose subscribers again welcome because it is always worth fighting. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first greeting goes to the more than 4000 subscribers of this petition, this civic act so noble and so constructive that it is the exercise of the right of petition. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Subscribers, that this happy outcome will not have been alien to the fact that this right of petition has been exercised by VV. Ex. Spinal muscle atrophy is a rare neuromuscular disease with a prevalence of 1 in every 70,000 born and most manifested between 6 and 18 months of age. It is a rare disease, it is true, but it dramatically affects children and, of course, their families. And the CDS is extremely sensitive to the suffering of children and understands the anguish of their parents and caregivers. We understand that access to the best treatments in good time must be guaranteed to all citizens, regardless of their pathologies, and in particular to which they represent high degrees of morbidity. Spinal muscle atrophy, as I have already said, is a disease of low prevalence but of high impact, so it has to have the government's commitment to the provision of adequate medication. Several resolutions have been adopted by the Assembly of the Republic since May 2018 and, in the context of the State budget, a proposal from The Greens has also been adopted unanimously, thus being enshrined in the forecast so that this year, 2019, if it could be made available as soon as the medicine was clarified and approved by Infarmed. last December, the news came to the public that the government approved funding of EUR 10 million per year for the medicine that exists for spinal muscle atrophy to be made available. Financial cabimentation has thus been safeguarded. Finally, only the necessary prior assessment of Infarmed was expected. Now, the pre-hospital evaluation of Infarmed is complete. The CDS does not doubt the competence of this body and we are sure that its assessment has been made with all technical, scientific rigour and meeting the highest standards of quality and safety. Yesterday, it was published on the Infarmed website that Spinraza obtained permission to be used in hospital, free of charge, as an indication for the treatment of spinal muscle atrophy in patients with categories 1, 2 and 3 of this disease. It is another step of science and it is certainly an excellent news for these children and their families. We now hope that these patients will have access to this medicine in a timely manner, so that they will be assured, as is the duty of the State, the right to health and quality of life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u178	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome, of course, the petitioners who have subscribed to this initiative and, above all, the parents of children with spinal muscular atrophy, who have been tireless in reporting and presenting the serious consequences of this disease in children suffering from it. The petitioners ask that the medicine be made available to patients and that this provision should cover types 1 and 2 and should be made in all hospitals of the National Health Service. The PCP, from the first time, accompanied these claims and made a set of demands that they were effectively achieved and realized. I recall that even before the petitioners had been heard here in the Assembly of the Republic, we asked the Government about this medicine, about its availability, about the evaluation work that Infarmed was doing. But we did not stay here: we also presented a draft resolution, which was approved in the Assembly of the Republic, which, among other recommendations, proposed the provision in the National Health Service to patients with spinal muscle atrophy of the most appropriate treatments, including access to the drug that was already approved by the European Medicines Agency. The CFP supported, in favour of voting, the proposal put forward by the Greens Ecological Party at budgetary level. The approval of the medicine by the national authority of the medicine, Infarmed, is indeed the recognition of the benefits that this medicine has and that it always has—and it is important to say so—the parents, anchored in those who were the clinical decisions of the doctors who accompanied these patients, thus informed us, being a victory for the parents and children with spinal muscular atrophy. It is expected — and the PCP expects and will effectively monitor this action — that these patients, patients with spinal muscular atrophy, be given access to the medicine and that it be made available in all hospitals of the National Health Service. We reaffirm here the commitment of always: to monitor this matter and to verify that these patients will have access to all the treatments and all the technical support and assistance they need to have a better life, so that this disease has fewer impacts, which are very serious, as has already been said, for these children who suffer from spinal muscular atrophy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u180	Mr Moisés Ferreira of BE has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group would like to greet and greet the more than 4000 petitioners who brought this important debate to Parliament on the free provision of medicines and treatment for spinal muscle atrophy. We also want to greet the petitioners because, with their initiative and this practical demonstration of what is participatory democracy, they have been able to considerably improve the quality of life of those who in Portugal live with a rare disease like this. With this initiative, petitioners helped to comply with a constitutional right, which is the right to health, and helped strengthen the National Health Service. Indeed, we can say that they have contributed decisively to these objectives, because the fact that more than 4000 signatures have been obtained from the population, that they bring this issue to Parliament, not only to the plenary but to Parliament, has meant that — and certainly things are not inseparable — Infarmed would authorize the introduction and availability of this medicine in Portugal. Your action also made the State Budget for 2019 approved in this House also approve the free availability of this medicine, as proposed by the petitioners, and also made the Government, after the approval of the State Budget for 2019, announce and make 10 million euros available to ensure the free treatment of dozens of people with spinal muscular atrophy in Portugal. In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a good example of participatory democracy and the real and effective power of citizens and is also a good example of what is the National Health Service and its importance, because without the National Health Service these medicines would not be possible nor would they be made available. We are now, here, Left Block, to ensure, for the present and for the future, that access to these medicines is effective and that all people who need these treatments will find no obstacle to access them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u182	Mrs. Members, let us move to the sixth point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of petitions Nos 431 / XIII / 3. a ( Jorge Van Krieken Mota et al.) — They call for measures to defend sustainable local housing and 441 / XIII / 3. a (Ana Gloria Setas Teixeira Lopes Ferro and others) — They request the adoption of measures in the context of local accommodation. For an intervention, Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank the subscribers of these two petitions, which emerged following a set of bills that had proposed to amend the Local Housing Act. This discussion will probably be adjusted over time, because the law has already been amended for more than half a year, but it is important to mention that these two petitions were framed at the right time and were integrated, by the PS proposal, into the set of hearings we did in the working group where we heard associations, entities and specialists. Therefore, the petitioners' contribution was precious, even being considered in some amendments that were made to the law. As they realized throughout the process, the final result comes from a set of various bills and many other amendments proposed by the various parliamentary groups. Still, we believe that the result has been positive, balanced and will contribute to a better functioning of this business area, which has proved very important for the development of tourism supply not only in large urban centres but also in middle size and rural areas. The fact is that today, half a year after the law comes into force, public opinion has serenou, the municipalities that have thus understood are making their regulations and delimiting the containment areas, a significant number of local housing establishments have come out of the clandestine and the residents, who are disturbed in their quality of life by local housing establishments in their condominiums, can in a more effective way resolve the problem. During the legislative process, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has set its position on four premises: that the activity of the exploitation of local accommodation is in fact an important asset for the success of tourism in our country and has a positive effect on the economy; that municipalities are better able to assess the impact of the local housing activity on their territory, and that is why we have given them the possibility to create mechanisms to control the number of local accommodation establishments; that the tourist establishes a neighbouring relationship other than that of permanent residents, which can contribute to the disturbances of the normal living of a condominium and, therefore, give them the possibility to oppose the existence of local housing establishments which systematically cause disturbances since we have proven; and that we should keep the system unburocratized as it is. We are therefore grateful once again for the contribution made by the two petitions in the conviction that we have met with many concerns that they have exposed and also taking advantage of some of the ideas they have suggested. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u184	Mr António Costa and Mr Silva of the PSD also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the petitioners for the act of citizenship expressed and also for the excellence of their petitions. They are indeed a great contribution to the Assembly of the Republic ; the Assembly of the Republic did not make the same contribution when it passed the legislation that has been in force for a few months and quickly failed to pay attention to these two requests. The first petition calls for measures to defend sustainable local housing and the second petition calls for measures to be taken within the framework of local housing. Although distinct, the two petitions meet the main concerns presented by the PSD in the debate we had a few months ago. In addition, while performing executive functions in the country, the PSD sought to legally frame the local accommodation as a diversified activity and, in certain circumstances, exercised illegally or clandestinely, introducing a legal framework that revealed an international case study. One of the main elements for success was that the law had clear application throughout the national territory and that it operated in a simple, little or no bureaucratic mechanism. That's how it was! I think we all recognize the great contribution that local housing has made to the country's consecration as an international tourist destination. We could also talk about the excellent contribution it has made to the regeneration, revitalization and recovery of many of our historic centers and, consequently, the creation of many jobs. We are still of the time when our historic centers were highly decadent, in which our historic centers were badly illuminated, degraded, dirty and highly insecure, in which our historic centers hardly attract residents or tourists. Everything changed, and everything changed with the previous law. All of this has changed with a strong contribution from local accommodation. The PSD has always understood that, in view of the experience resulting from the application of local housing legislation and from changing the reality of the applicant, some adjustments should be made. The PSD understands that the path recently followed by excessive process bureaucracy, of strong limitation to the exercise of the activity, of promoting the instability of the sector are unattractive elements for those who want to develop this type of activity. It should be noted that those who benefit most are families, microenterprises and those who seek local accommodation to do tourism. The PSD believes that some important measures should be taken in the activity of this sector, in particular allowing the activity to present more security guarantees, either for the holding ownership or for the tourist, or for third parties that may be affected by its exercise. And our proposals are in that direction. Finally, the PSD meets the vast majority of concerns presented by petitioners, expressed in these documents, in which they reflect the state of soul of a sector that has contributed much to the recovery of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u186	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all petitioners who subscribe to the petitions now under discussion and by expressing the full agreement of the CDS with the assumptions and concerns raised there regarding the local accommodation. In fact, the CDS, at its first discussion in this plenary on the legislative initiatives presented by the PS, the Left Block and the CFP, which aimed at amending the legal regime of the operation of local housing establishments, raised several doubts and concerns consistent with those which the texts of the petitions now under discussion bring us. Unfortunately, and with the vote against the CDS, many amendments to that regime were approved in this Assembly of the Republic by the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, and they have already entered into force last October. We believe that the amendments introduced little or nothing improve the regime, rather, many of them will only serve to complicate access to activity, introduce bureaucracy and generate numerous legal barriers. We already have several examples: the imposition of insurance which does not exist on the market; the supervision of condominium whose rules and procedures are unclear; the possibility of municipalities establishing a quota system, without the law establishing any objective criteria for its creation. These changes do not ensure stability, rigor or certainty and can contribute to returning to the parallel economy numerous local accommodation establishments, turning back over time. As the petition texts emphasize, we must not forget that the local housing depends on the survival of some tens of thousands of families from all regions of the country, who have found in this activity the only way out for the precariousness of their lives. In addition, local accommodation also promotes other sectors of activity, including restoration, trade and services, making a strong contribution to the local economy and being essential to tourism, which has contributed so much to the growth of our country. But it has also been fundamental in the rehabilitation of large urban centers, being a fallacy, begged by the left, which is responsible for the lack of housing in our cities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the various amendments that have been adopted regarding the local housing regime, the left, especially the PS and the Left Block, remain in their saga against this activity. It is sufficient to see what they propose in their initiatives concerning the Housing Base Law, in order to require a specific licence of use for the allocation of a property or residential fraction to the local accommodation, with all the constraints associated, including the difficulty of the subsequent allocation of that property, again, to housing. Thus, the concerns expressed by thousands of petitioners through these petitions remain today and should be duly considered by all, in particular by all political parties. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u188	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the CFP welcomes the subscribers of the petitions that are under consideration today on the issues of local accommodation. It is important to say that the CFP in this debate has always taken a position to try to reconcile the economic activity of local housing with the protection of the right to housing and the safeguarding of the specificities, experiences, characteristics of neighborhoods and communities. We believe that tourism activity is relevant to the economy and the country, but we also consider that the right to housing must be protected. It was in this respect that questions relating to local accommodation required weighting and reflection by the Assembly of the Republic. If it is true that the impact of this activity is not the same throughout the territory, it is also true that in places where it is identified that the impact is negative, it is in practice an obstacle to access to housing, and this impact is not summarized only in some areas. We have heard here, by the PSD and the CDS, references to the local accommodation activity, but about the deeply negative consequences on the right to housing and access to housing, also in the city centers, we have not heard a single word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u191	Instead of our cities being more attractive, we see today the people who have always lived in the cities, in the center, in the nearness of being expelled, of having to travel to the neighbouring municipalities, because they have no resources to bear the high costs of housing that occur at the moment in the city centers. That's what we're trying to prevent! It is important to maintain economic activity, but it is important to preserve and protect the population that has always lived in cities. The population guarantees the characteristics of the cities, guarantees that the city of Lisbon is different from the city of Porto and is different from any other city in Europe. It is the population who guarantees the characteristics of the cities and that is what also leads many tourists to want to visit our country and our cities. We therefore believe that the legislative process which took place in the Assembly of the Republic was a relevant process — many entities have been heard on this subject and the various sensibilities have been heard. It is precisely because the impact of local housing is diversified on the territory that the solution found, through municipal regulations, that can regulate and moderate this activity, seems to us to be correct, going to meet the specificities of each site.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u193	This solution does not impose any mandatory path, but allows the resolution of specific problems wherever they have been identified. That is why it has deserved our proposal, and of course also our commitment and final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u194	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u195	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, in fact, it is important to look at economic activity in these matters, but it is very important to look at constitutional rights as well. And the right to housing must be safeguarded and cannot be called into question! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u196	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, in January 2017, complete apartments and houses accounted for 91 % of the offer available on the local tourist market in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. in the SIGTUR ( Geographic Information System of Tourism), which contains tourist and tourist accommodation data in October 2018, and before the possibility of applying quotas to local accommodation, there were only 6751 local accommodation records in port, of which about 5000, i.e. 72 %, were in the Union of Freguesias of the Historic Centre of Porto. With regard to tourism enterprises, there were only 62 in the same Union of Freguesias. The discrepancy here is evident and the differentiation in taxes too, being the taxation and regulation of the most favourable local accommodation. in this same analysis, the tourist accommodation capacity was only in Cedofeita of 28 000 tourists, i.e. 63 % of the city's capacity. If we scale and compare the data with those of the 2011 Censuses, we realize that, for example, the ancient fregueses of Vitória, São Nicolau, Santo Ildefonso and Sé already have more sleeping of tourists, per day, than residents. Here is your fallacy, Mrs Ilda Araújo New : the historic center of Porto becomes, thus, an open-air hotel, with only a few sample residents, which are the few that can be maintained. Whoever defends the maintenance of this state of things closes his eyes to this and also forgets the original idea of local accommodation. Linked to the concept of sharing economy, this activity presupposed the possibility of temporary renting of the accommodation itself, or only of part, for certain periods, which opened up for the possibility of a supplementary income for those who welcomed the tourist. This idea is now largely subverted and has been assimilated by economic groups linked to tourism. Thus, important parts of the city housing parks were captured by local housing, decreasing the supply on the real estate market and increasing the rental and selling prices of houses to speculative levels, not compatible with the average income of residents. It is necessary, in fact, to protect local accommodation, but this protection is about making it again what is, in fact, the sharing of the house, no longer being a more favourable tax system of tourism activity. In several cities worldwide, local accommodation was limited to certain periods, for temporary sharing of own, partial or total housing, and occupied as tourist space only in part of the year. The other housing tourism arrangements which constitute investments directed towards an intensive tourism holding must be covered by their existing rules of tourism undertakings. In fact, if this is a hotel activity and lives to receive tourists, then it is a tourist activity, it is not a housing accommodation and therefore must pay the proper taxes. For the Left Block this is clear and this, yes, is the protection of housing, it is the protection of cities and it is also the protection of local housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-17.u198	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's work. It is only necessary to announce the agenda of the plenary meeting tomorrow, Friday, which will start at 10 a.m. Thus, the draft resolution No 1850 / XIII / 4 will be assessed in the first place. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to change the protection policy of children and young people at risk, relaunched family reception as a privileged measure between placement measures. Secondly, we will generally proceed to the joint debate of Bills Nos 963 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services and 1063 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Improvement of health conditions, in the working environment, of forces and security services. Third, the Drafts of Law Nos 935 / XIII / 3 will be discussed in general. a ( The Greens) — Disincentives the use of microplastics in current-use products such as cosmetics and hygiene products in order to safeguard ecosystems and public health, 751 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Determines the ban on the production and marketing of detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics, 1060 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the marketing and import of cosmetics and hygiene products containing microplastics and regulates their presence in other products and 1061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements a programme to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products, in conjunction with the Resolution Project No 1883 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a scientific study to address the impacts of microplastics on the environment, food chain and human health. Fourthly, we will appreciate Petition No 488 / XIII / 3. a — Recognition of the editions of the Portuguese Championship held between 1922 and 1938. Then we will also appreciate Petition No 498 / XIII / 3. a — Review of the curriculum programme of the Mid-term Study discipline. the cycle of basic education. Sixthly, motions for resolution Nos 81 / XIII / 4 are scheduled without time for discussion. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Portuguese Republic on Defence Cooperation, signed in Tallinn, on 1 June 2018, 82 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola to Avoid Double Taxation in Tax Matters on Income and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, 83 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola on Mutual Administrative Assistance and Cooperation in Tax Matters, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, and 84 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement for the Review of the Agreement on Air Transport Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique, signed in Lisbon on 30 April 2010. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 36 minutes.]]
