ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the public galleries. of the first item on our agenda is the general discussion of two draft resolutions, draft resolution No 1891 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the reorganization of the study cycles in basic and secondary education and draft resolution No 1936 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad and deep national debate on the reorganization of teaching cycles and the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization. You have the floor to open the debate and present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Basic Law of the Education System determines that compulsory education is developed at two levels of education, the basic, with nine years of duration, divided into three cycles, and the secondary, with a duration of three years. No. 1. the basic education cycle, and according to the Report of the National Council for Education ( NEC ) — State of Education 2017, school failure reaches peak 2. the year, with more than 7% of students reprobate each year. No. 2. the mean retention rate is 6 %. But it's the 7th. the year of the highest retention rate of all basic education cycles — above 11 %; almost 12,000 students to be rejected each year. One of the factors contributing to these results is this excessive division into autonomous cycles, with its implications in monitoring the course of students, in organizing the teaching service, in the curriculum and even in the physical organization of school spaces. This is also the view of the CNE, in the words of its current President, which I quote : « It would be to rethink the organization of basic education, particularly the old question of the 2nd. the cycle, given the difficulties indicated in the transition years'. In the past, in Recommendation 2, 2015, the NEC had criticized this structure by drawing attention to « brusque transition between 1. o and 2. the cycle, and these two years of 2. the cycle, in many countries, was incorporated in a longer and deeper primary education, facilitating the consolidation of basic knowledge and skills". At the beginning of this legislature, the CDS presented a draft review of the Basics Law of the Education System—leaded in this Chamber—which, among other things, proposes the reorganization of compulsory education in two six-year cycles. The objective was to establish a pedagogical sequencing that of this meaning and continuity in the course of compulsory education and not the acrytic persistence in a structure that is a blanket of flaps and that finds its main justification in history. Knowing the many and complex implications of a reorganization like this, the CDS proposes to recommend to the Government a previous study on the restructuring of teaching cycles, its implications and impacts. In essence, it proposes that the Government comply with the minimum of what it has entered into in its own programme; in essence, it leaves work ready for a next government to take informed decisions at the beginning of the legislature, the appropriate time for such amendments. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u3	You now have the floor for an intervention and for the presentation of the draft resolution of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the various teaching cycles have experienced multiple changes and, in particular, 1. the cycle was decharacterized and suffering various difficulties, due to years of successive government policy options — right-wing policies, we would say — which were exacerbating the situation due to disinvestment and also due to casuistic changes. This portrait could extend from 1. the cycle to the remaining cycles of basic and secondary education, in a scenario aggravated by the lack of workers, financial resources and a properly qualified and equipped school park, problems that have not yet been fully solved and that also contribute, in order to make the schools feel numerous difficulties that then affect not only the working conditions but also the conditions of success and attendance of students attending schools. In addition to the organizational issues, which we have to discuss, we have also put these structural issues, which cannot be left behind. But at the level of what we are discussing today, more specifically, there are multiple opinions, which are unfolding and are being known, so it becomes urgent and necessary to reflect on the structuring in force today, in relation to the organization of the teaching cycles and also in relation to another fundamental component, which is the curriculum reorganization and the adequacy of programmes, which needs to be rethinked. What the CFP Parliamentary Group proposes with the draft resolution presented here is, above all, the organization of a broad and deep national debate that equations three different issues and that involves the entire educational community, specialists, finally, a number of people and educational agents who are, in fact, fundamental to hearing in such a debate. We propose that this debate take three aspects into account: on the one hand, the organization of 1. the cycle of basic education, covering the reorganization of the school network, the pedagogical organization and the teaching regime, the evaluation and the formation of classes; on the other hand, the reorganization of the teaching cycles, in particular with regard to its duration and its articulation; and, thirdly, the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization and consequent adequacy of programs, schedules and objectives to be achieved, in order to meet the needs of the development of society and the formation of the integral culture of the individual. This question is not simple and requires, indeed, a broad debate, because there are many issues that arise not only from the Basic Law of the Education System but from legitimate doubts, which are raised, often even by the representative organisations of the workers themselves, in relation to the model to be followed, in the way this is going to be done, how it would be effectively articulated all these aspects and the teaching cycles, because there are risks that are underlying and that cannot be ignored. We therefore want a broad national debate to be held. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u5	Mr Odete João, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I leave a previous note: the Socialist Party's electoral programme does not include the reorganization of teaching cycles. Therefore, the draft resolutions of the CDS and the CFP, here under consideration, aimed at this reorganization have not supported the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u7	But there is to be a debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u8	It is good to remember the Basic Law of the Education System of 1986, which defined the current organization of teaching cycles and which deserved a broad consensus, the result of an extended reflection and a very fruitful debate. The basic law has been the guarantee of the stability of the system and has always been a lever for its improvement. He understands the CDS as 2. the cycle has a high retention rate and therefore its abolition would all solve. However, forget that the retention rate paragraph 2. the cycle increased from 8, 6 % in 2015 to 5, 8 % in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u10	Failure levels have been decreasing in all years of schooling, however, it is still in the early years, of cycle transition, which are more retentions. It is necessary to ask what has been done to reduce difficulties in cycle transitions. So, let's see. The National School Success Promotion Program invests primarily in the early years of the cycle, with very positive results, as we all know. The strategic action plans organized by schools have created dynamics between cycles and promote their articulation. The essential learnings, defined by the government, go in a logic of vertical and horizontal articulation. Curriculum flexibility stimulates the creation of pedagogical teams and the integration of knowledge; 25 % of the curriculum because it is managed by schools. The measures promoted by the Government are also not taken into account by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, which cannot omit the integration of the Artistic and Physical-Motor Expression, in addition to the Information and Citizenship and Development Technologies in the curriculum matrix of 1. the cycle. by doing so, you are ignoring the work of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to take into account the impact of any reorganization of the teaching cycles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u11	This is not about reorganisation, it is about debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u12	You can see what happened in neighbouring Spain by trying to do so, in which levels of failure have dramatically increased. This reorganization would, of course, have an impact and would bring problems to the organization of the recruitment groups of teaching staff, initial training of teachers and in the building, especially in schools. To conclude, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the conduct of studies and debates alone cannot be a negative issue, quite the contrary; however, it cannot be seen as a compromise, serve to create expectations or generate instability...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u13	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u14	I will finish, Mr. President. Studies and debates cannot be used to generate instability in the public policies implemented, which have already shown to ensure the quality of education for all and the reduction of rates of failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u15	The floor is now for an intervention by Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP and the CDS bring us today two draft resolutions on the reorganization of teaching cycles. The PCP project also has a proposal to correct the decharacterization of 1. the cycle and curriculum reform. The Left Block agrees with the idea that there is a need for a broad national debate, including schools, the CNE, the school community, which certainly includes Parliament and the parties, on the organization of teaching cycles and on school. Our educational system has anachronisms. Some of them are structural, others result from lack of political courage to reverse outdated educational policies, which were introduced by Nuno Crato,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u17	Oh, it had to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u18	... during the last term of office of the PSD Government and the CDS. If the organization of teaching cycles can be seen as a structural problem, which is pointed out by the CNE, for school failure, it is also true that the programs, goals and curricula of Nuno Crato...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u19	Oh, is the assessment coming? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u20	... are also pointed out as factors of school failure, it is also true that the culture of retention...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u21	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u22	... it is pointed out as a factor of school failure and it is also true that the excessive weight of national exams and the link between the completion of secondary education and access to higher education is pointed out as a factor of curricular care and school failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u24	All of this has to be discussed when we discuss the reorganization of teaching cycles. But, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I leave two notes regarding the CDS project. The first note refers to the fact that this project is the expression of a defeat, because the CDS, when it brings today the reorganization of the teaching cycles, leaves behind—and still well! — its draft amendment of the basic law, which was a draft of the GPS group agenda ( Management and Social Participations ). It was a project that required the State to finance the private and it was a project that introduced the teaching check into the basic law. It was a project for a law of unconstitutional bases, and although the CDS abandoned this project and now brings us only the change of teaching cycles, because it recognizes that this was a defeat. This project is also the recognition of an error, because when the CDS comes here to say that the excessive segmentation of teaching cycles is a factor of school failure, the Left Block agrees. The Left Block agrees! We may not have a fixed model and we may go to study the changes, but there is excessive segmentation. Do you know what didn't smooth the segmentation between cycles? Want to introduce exams #4. the year, I want to introduce exams in 6. the year and introduce exams in 9. year! Your Government, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, has introduced examinations in all cycles of basic education, up to the cycle that you say should not exist, because it causes excessive segmentation of teaching cycles. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] The Left Block, in the name of the pedagogical continuity that Mrs. Deputy brings here, will present a project to end the examination of a year that is currently anachronism in this segmentation that should not exist between teaching cycles. It is an anachronism that prevents pedagogic continuity and is on behalf of the fight against excessive segmentation, which the honourable Member here pointed out as one of the factors of school failure, is in the name of this pedagogical continuity, consistent with the arguments she presented, which we hope the CDS will vote in favour of this project to end the examination of the 9. year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS and the PCP present today draft resolutions with a view to reorganizing the study cycles. The subject is not new. The PSD has, moreover, had its own thoughts for many years on this matter. In fact, since the discussion of the basic law in 2004 in the time of the Minister of Education, David Justino, the question arises. At that time, a restructuring of the system was planned at 6 + 6, in which basic and secondary education would be universal, compulsory and free, organized together, constituting a joint, sequential and coherent course with a total duration of 12 years. But it was never our understanding to make changes in cycles in a vulva, punctual, torn or even disintegrated form of an overall view of education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u27	For this reason, many doubts remain regarding the projects presented today. The most prudent initiative of the CDS suggests a study with a view to the feasibility of restructuring the teaching cycles, replacing the current four-cycle partition, considering all changes and consequences resulting from and evaluating their impacts. The PCP, allow me, is at that stage when you realize that you don't really like the marriage to the PS anymore. In fact, it is dedicated to the identification of a set of defects of its partner, from criticisms of the most diverse nature: criticisms of Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, criticisms of the restructuring of the network, to the closure of the schools of 1. the cycle, to the implementation of the AEC ( curricular enrichment activities), to the change of the time load, to the curriculum reorganization, out there. The CFP recommends that the Government promote a broad national debate involving specialists and educational agents on the organization of 1. the cycle of basic education, covering the reorganization of the school network, the pedagogical organization, the teaching regime, evaluation and the formation of classes, the reorganization of teaching cycles, the curriculum reorganization, an endless number of themes. I would like to ask the CFP, considering the explanatory statement of its diploma, whether it defends the extension of monodocency to 2. the cycle. I think this is a question. And what would happen, however, to teachers of the 2nd. the cycle? And if you defend the end of the AEC and the whole school, I would like to remind you that you support a government that has promised, but has not yet fulfilled its enlargement to the 2nd. the cycle. What are we staying on? Something or something? The PSD position has been clear for a long time: after the extension of compulsory education by the previous government in 2014 - 2015, it makes sense to review the basic law in order to reflect on this issue of cycle review. But try, here and there, to make up this 1986 basic law with punctuation touches, in the taste of conveniences, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u29	It is necessary to ensure, as Mandela said, that «education continues to be the most powerful weapon to change the world». To that end, we must guarantee their integrity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u30	To close the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate I would like to give some clarifications and refresh some of the memories of this House. Starting with Mrs Odete João, who deserves the greatest respect, I will say that she will probably not remember her own Government Programme, which said in a chapter whose title is Combating failure at its root: « Promote greater articulation between the three cycles of basic education by progressively redefining its structure in order to mitigate the negative effects of transition between cycles ». So, finally, it is in the programme of your government, it is not being reorganized and redefined its structure and, therefore, it seems quite legitimate to me to infer that the Government Programme is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u32	That's being done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u33	However, there are statements from other prominent figures of the Socialist Party, former ministers such as Prof. Isabel Alçada, who said « I think that the structure of the three cycles for basic education should be rethinked», or as Prof. Júlio Pedrosa, who also says « today, perhaps it was a good time to conceive a first cycle of six years in compulsory education». In other words, there seems to be, within the Socialist Party — although there seems to be no consensus on what the CDS proposes here. With regard to the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua says she agrees—and I am very pleased with that—but then she says that she does not yet have a closed proposal. Perhaps it would be worthwhile to go back to 2003, because at that time they had a closed proposal. Mr. João Teixeira Lopes then said: "The Left Block presents a proposal that concentrates attention where everything begins in the early years of schooling. So,... » — listen well! — «... we argue that the first six years correspond to basic education, bringing together the 1. o is 2. or cycles’.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u34	Didn't you hear what I said? It was written!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u35	Perhaps it was a failed proposal, perhaps they were defeated at that time. But I invite you now to join the CDS and vote in favour, in the background, to prove your consistency. But in addition to the PS and the Left Block, also the PSD, Prof. David Justino, Prof. Joaquim de Azevedo, the directors of school grouping associations, all agree that it is necessary to do at least the minimum, which is to start this study and this discussion. That's just what the CDS brings to this House today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda. The joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 1833 / XIII / 4 is followed in general. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing the tolls on the Via do Infante, 1834 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25, 1835 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41, A42 and A29, 1836 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A24, 1837 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A23, 1359 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government move the « stadium gate » in order to safeguard the interests of the local economy of Aveiro and of all those who have to travel in the urban mesh of that city, 1521 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the resolution of RA No 63 / 2013 to study an alternative to the « stadium porch », defending the best interests of Aveiro and ending with a serious injustice towards the Aveiras, 1558 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of tolls on the so-called motorway of Pinhal Interior ( A13 section between the Enthronement and Coimbra and A13.1 linking the Condeix), 1827 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A23, 1828 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A24, 1829 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A25, 1830 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A22 / Via do Infante, 1857 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A25, 1858 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A24, 1859 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By abolishing tolls in A23 and 1861 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Way of the Child. To open this debate and present the PCP diplomas, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group today presents five draft resolutions recommending to the Government the elimination of tolls in A23, A24, A25, A28, A29, A41, A42 and Via do Infante, A22. From Viana do Castelo to Algarve, passing, among other districts, by Braga, Porto, Aveiro, Coimbra, Viseu, Vila Real, Chaves, Guarda or Santarém, all these districts have in common the imposition of a cost to the populations and to the economic fabric to use roads, roads that are fundamental and for which they have no viable alternative. There are several years, tens and dozens of years, to be paid to fill the pockets of the dealers. As we mentioned in our draft resolution on A28, which has taken place all these years, it is possible to conclude that in this process there were those who had won — the concessionaires — and those who had lost — the State, the regional economy, the workers and the general population. Thus, it is not the first or second time that we present these initiatives, but we insist, because the introduction of tolls in these ways was an injustice and the population feels well the consequences that the introduction of tolls has in its day-to-day. Today, a family, a worker, who has to travel from the Povoa of Varzim to the Port pays 40 € of tolls per month only to work. If the trip is from Viana from Castelo to Porto, then it is more than 160 € ; from Vila Real to Chaves are 150 € per month; from Lamego to Vila Real more than 70 € per month; Covilhã-Castelo Branco, more than 120 € per month only to go to work; Viseu-Guarda are more than 200 €; Silves-Faro, more than 60 €; Faro-Tavira, more than 90 €; Torres Novas-Abrantes, 68 €; Take-Coimbra, more than 200 €. That's what we're talking about when we propose removing the tolls. It is millions, many million euros taken from families, workers, to fill the pockets of dealers. As we mentioned in our draft resolution of the Via do Infante, A22 : « According to the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support of the Assembly of the Republic, in the technical note Public-Private Partnerships, total gross charges with PPP Via do Infante reach EUR 767 million. » This, in just one of the many road PPPs we referred to. So for the CFP Parliamentary Group, it is absolutely clear that it is important to stop this path, which urgently needs to be removed in these ways. And the solution presented by both the PSD Parliamentary Group and the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group do not solve the problem; they want to relocate it without going to the bottom issue, which is the urgent elimination of tolls in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u38	The CDS-PP enrolled two Members to intervene immediately, first Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, to present the projects, and then Mr.Hélder Amaral. Mr Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day when the payment of tolls in the SCUT is discussed in plenary, the CDS could not fail to insist that a huge injustice committed against Aveiro is corrected. In 2010 the Government of the Socialist Party, when deciding to collect tolls, placed porticos around Aveiro, and in particular in A25, between Esgueira and Aveiro-Nascente, i.e. we are talking about a portico that is clearly in an urban area, which leads to anyone wanting to go from the city center to the municipal stadium necessarily having to pay toll. What would it be, Mrs. Members, if here in Lisbon, to go to the National Stadium or to Benfica or Sporting stadiums would you have to pay a toll? Think about it. The result was, as is evident, the increase in traffic, especially on the national road No 109, in the parish of Cacia, an area of schools, generating rows that would take 1 hour to travel 5 km. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time for clarification. Who are you going to be with? Will they support or not the CDS proposal to modify the location of this portico further forward so as not to penalize the movements in relation to the Aveiro stadium? The gentlemen. Are Members of the Socialist Party going to continue or not to ignore this problem and not to solve it? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u40	Mr Hélder Amaral will speak more soon, so I now give the floor to an intervention to Mr António Topa of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 12 April 2013, the Assembly of the Republic adopted Resolution No 63 / 2013, which recommended that the Government promote an alternative study to the stadium portico, located in A25, in the city of Aveiro, before the exit to Aveiro Municipal Stadium and to the commercial and industrial area of Escueira. Considering that the first tolls in the SCUT were introduced by a socialist government in 2010, it is now also in the hands of the Socialist Party itself the possibility of reviewing and finding a solution for an old claim, which is the location of the portico near the Aveiro stadium. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] National road No 109 is strongly used as an alternative to A25, registering a traffic volume much higher than that existing before the installation of the portico, causing strong constraints to the population. It's a slow and dangerous alternative. in this sense, it is important to seek a new location for this portico in order to give a clear signal and a contribution to mobility and accessibility in the urban mesh of Aveiro, promoting both equality and social and territorial cohesion among the citizens of the municipality of Aveiro, which is fundamental to safeguarding the growth and economic development of the region. in this regard, and under the legal and regulatory provisions, the Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group renew the recommendation to the Government, through draft resolution No 1521 / XIII / 4. the, here under discussion, to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 63 / 2013, in order to conduct a study of an alternative to the stadium porch, defending the best interests of Aveiro and ending with a serious injustice for the people of veirense. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u42	Mr Fatima Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here for justice to be done. In April 2016, the Government announced the application of 15 % discount on tolls to some inland highways and also to the Algarve. What happened? He attributed these discounts but, at the time, he forgot the one that was called, even by a socialist government, of the Interior Pinhal, which serves the poorest municipalities in the country and that makes the connection of Taking Coimbra and Condeix. Through councils, indeed poor, in particular Ansião, Alvaiázere, Miranda do Corvo. In addition, it connects to A23 and connects to N342 and IC8, i.e. the Figueiró dos Vinhos, Pedrogão, and the Castanheira de Pera, a series of municipalities that, including, had been heavily fused by the fires and which are served by this motorway. What happens is that, as I said, this motorway was not included in these discounts. As you, from the CFP to the Socialist Party, certainly understand, it was indeed an injustice and, therefore, we have repeatedly warned about the correction of that injustice. Of course, the process has never been solved. Meanwhile, in April 2018, we introduced this draft resolution because it was urgent to resolve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u44	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u45	Now, in January, because we are in the year of elections, the government has announced a discount for the transport of goods, but these people deserve to see their business solved, because it is extremely important [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u46	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is in favour of all the draft resolutions presented here to abolish the tolls on the various routes. In my remaining time, I'm just going to talk about the draft resolution of the Left Block to abolish the tolls on the Kidney Way. With this, there are already nine times when the Left Block presents proposals to abolish the tolls in the Algarve, proposals that are always unfeasible by PS, PSD and CDS. Mrs. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS, it is time for them to redeem themselves. Will they again vote against the Algarve, voting in favour of maintaining the tolls? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we now know, according to data from the National Road Safety Authority, accidents are many in the Algarve. There are more than 10,000 accidents per year, with an average of 35 fatalities and 185 serious injuries — ever increasing numbers — a large part of the national road No 125, considered the « road to death ». In addition to economic damage, in addition to damage to mobility, this tragedy in the Algarve is indeed immense. Mrs. Members, it is time to vote in favour of this draft resolution if you want to be in favour of the Algarve. If you don't want to, then vote against this project. But don't forget, particularly the ladies. PS Members, whom Mr. Prime Minister, before the legislative elections, promised to end the tolls in the Algarve, besides also promised to abolish the tolls in the streets of the interior. He hasn't done it yet! It's time to keep the word. The word given should be an honest word! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u48	You now have the floor, for an intervention, on behalf of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cases on which the Greens present legislative initiatives today are a good example of how public policies, if they do not take account of the economic and social sectors, contribute to weakening the quality of life of the populations, causing the loss of competitiveness, with severe penalisation of the companies installed in these regions and considerably exacerbating the dynamics of these territories. In fact, in these routes that are located in regions whose socio-economic development indicators are lower than the national average and also because there are no alternative supply in the road system, there can be no cost for users precisely because the two assumptions justifying the non-application of tolls are present. It happens that's not what's happening. It is not, because — and here it would be appropriate for us to do so, Mr President. PSD Members — as is public, the introduction of tolls in these routes took place in 2011, and it was a decision of the PSD/CDS Government, which came to consolidate a resolution taken by the PS Government in 2010. In fact, despite the criticisms and counter-positions of the PSD and the CDS-PP during the election period in spring 2011, soon after the legislative elections, the completion of the process of introducing tolls in these ways was one of the first decisions taken by the PSD / CDS-PP government. Now, the introduction of tolls, for example in the case of A23, represented a backward decades in the accessibility of the districts of Guarda, Castelo Branco, Portalegre and Santarém, continuing to suffocate companies and users financially. The same is said about A24, reaching the districts of Vila Real and Bragança, which integrate, as it is known, the set of districts that in our country present worse economic and social indicators, or even A25, which serves mainly the districts of Aveiro, Viseu and Guarda, and whose populations have no alternative in terms of mobility, as in fact the populations served by the Way of the Child, where there is indeed no true alternative that allows the population to move to their territory without constraints. In fact, even with several works already carried out, the national road No 125 continues to contain bottlenecks and large accumulation of traffic, and has been, in fact, marked by the National Road Safety Authority, a large number of black spots along its path and therefore continues to be referred to as the « road of death ». It is therefore clear that the introduction of tolls in these routes is having very negative consequences for the people but also for local companies, becoming an obstacle to economic development, to the mobility of populations, which is already reduced, being a clear invitation to depopulation and to the definition of these areas in the interior of the country. For this reason, the Greens propose the abolition of tolls on the Via do Infante, on A23, on A24 and on A25, for the benefit of the populations, their mobility and the fight against desertification of the interior. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u50	The next intervention is Mr. Carlos Matias, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the introduction of tolls in A23, A24 and A25 was a harsh blow to the expectations of economic development in vast regions of our country. Although some price reductions have been introduced in the meantime, companies located in this interior continue with significant additional costs to place their products on the market, weakening them in competition with other implanted in the country's coastal range, a total setback, at the time when attempts are made to counter the depopulation of the interior. In the Tejo Medium, the tolls in A23 still have another and unique effect: as the Tejo Middle Hospital Center is divided by three complementary poles—in Abrantes, Torres Novas and Tomar—is given the case of a quick connection between them only to be able to do by means of worn roads. It must be a single case where, in a hospital unit, you pay a toll to go from Orthopedics to Pediatrics. There are no real alternatives in many of these motorways, here and there built on the path of previous national roads. Where this does not happen, the national roads pass through numerous localities, raising environmental and security problems, which is widely recognized by many autoarchs. The end of these motorways of the interior, in order to reduce regional asymmetries, reduced transport costs and increased traffic safety, are already required by such diverse entities as the Intermunicipal Community of Beira Baixa, the University of Beira Interior, the Intermunicipal Community of Beiras and Serra da Estrela, the Business Association of Beira Baixa, the Union of Trade Unions of Castelo Branco, the Movement of Entrepreneurs for the Subsistence of the Interior, the Business Association of Guards and the Union of Guard Trade Unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u52	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u53	Mr. President, I will finish. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block joins, here and now, the appeal to end at once the tolls in A23, A24 and A25. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before the next intervention, I would like to ask that the conditions be created so that we can work with less noise. Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that is being held gives the idea that if we abolish the tolls, the Portuguese will pay less. That's fake! The motorways have a cost and there are basically two models to finance it: either by tax or by the user-payer principle, which is through tariffs and tolls. What is at stake here is precisely the model. The Portuguese model led to a series of errors, we all know that. We've done more highways and now we have these heavy charges to pay. Abolishing tolls would mean renegotiating concession contracts and therefore the State would have to enter with taxes to finance these renegotiations. Of all the projects we are analyzing here, the only one that will deserve my support will be the PSD resolution project on the Pinhal Interior motorway. And why? Because for now it is the only project that talks about reducing tolls and because in 2016 the government has already promoted a reduction in the price of all the tolls that I will set out : A4, A22, A23, A24 and A25. There was a reduction of 15 % precisely with the justification for the country's economic and social development, of being depressed areas with low purchasing power, and, in the case of Pinhal Interior, as has been mentioned by Mrs Fatima Ramos, of being a fire-strike zone. We therefore do not deceive the Portuguese in these votes and in these projects. There is always a need to finance the highways that, in many cases, are bad in others, were built in this country. And there are only two models: either they are paid by the user or by taxes, i.e. by all Portuguese. The model we have on the table is what we know and therefore it is not worth deceiving the Portuguese on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u56	Thank you for your closing, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u57	Finally, Mr President, a final note on the Route of the Child and the national road No 125. Whoever walks on the national road No 125 knows that she has had very significant and substantial improvements and, therefore, if she is more congested is because it is an alternative to the Via do Infante, to A22, which can be used. It is in perfect condition, contrary to what has been said here. [[Cecilia Meireles and Hélder Amaral applause from the members of the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u58	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP will not vote against these initiatives, because it wants to see where the lack of shame of management goes — PCP, Block of Left, PS and Ecological Party « The Greens ». This has a origin. As Mr Trigo Pereira said now, the origin is the PS of the fat cows. The PS of fat cows caught the country of highways and sub-concessions, which disbalanced the public accounts and led the Portuguese taxpayers to despair. And now they've taken the country to the pre-bank. Now the PS of flying cows comes with a fiction of reductions that no one perceives, without fairness, without justice and without clarity. I would also like to recall the following detail: there is no need to be ashamed that, in the budget we have just voted on, this issue has not been put on the table and resolved. In fact, I want to remember that the management voted an increase of 0, 08 € / litre taken from the Portuguese pocket—many million taken from the Portuguese pocket. Do you know where? In the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) and at the carbon rate. Who voted for the increase in ISP and the carbon rate? The management! With regard to the single circulation tax, do you know how much more Portuguese pay? What about CO2 and vehicle tax? All of this was approved in the last budget — many million withdrawn from the Portuguese purses — with the positive votes of the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Green Party. And do you now say "you have to abolish the tolls throughout the country"? Oh, my God! In fact, there must be no shame! The CDS is available to correct small injustices: in the A28, in the portico of the Neiva, and in the portico of Aveiro, next to the stadium. And it is even available to find a model of toll reductions that can be balanced, that can be equitable, that take into account territorial cohesion. We had a tax benefit status for the interior, where there were reductions, directly in taxes, with transport expenses and with tolls, and it was all plummeted. The Portuguese are therefore aware that, during the Budget, you can solve the problem and do not solve it, and that they then come, without any decency, to make proposals that I hope the Socialist Party will say now whether or not it will approve. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u60	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Lack of shame will certainly have the PSD and CDS-PP, who had four years, three months and nine days in their last government, and have done nothing to solve these issues that they now put here. In fact, let's even remember Aveiro. Your Deputy Prime Minister, Paulo Portas, was from Aveiro. What did he do to solve these problems that came here to put? He was elected by the electoral circle of Aveiro! That's a shameless thing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, the PS assumes here what is in its Government Programme and is being implemented. The PS, in its Government Programme, argued that it would not introduce more tolls on any more motorways. It also argued that it would reduce by 15 % the value of tolls on motorways located in areas of the most disadvantaged territories. And it extended the time modulation regime and special discounts on economic activity also in the most disadvantaged territories. These are the measures that are being implemented. And they are being in a framework of territorial cohesion and social justice, in order to ensure the minimization of the impacts that, of course, the PS recognizes that they are negative to the territories affected by these tolls. Today, we are discussing 16 draft resolutions that propose the abolition of tolls in 10 motorways. And the question here is how it is sustainable to implement these measures, how it is possible to implement these measures. We need to be consistent, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We cannot move forward with measures that do not have the economic studies of the cost and the alternatives to finance them. Mrs. Members of the CFP and BE do not agree that the priority at the moment should be to strengthen investment in public transport, to strengthen investment in rail, in order to ensure that alternative means of public transport are available for the most disadvantaged territories, not only for passengers but also for goods? Or do they intend that the alternative at this time be to withdraw the investment on the railway and pass it again on to the highway? These are the issues that need to be clearly discussed. I wanted to make it very clear that the PS would certainly like to reduce the value of the tolls on the highways, I would even like to abolish the tolls on the highways. The big question is what is the solution at the moment from the point of view of what are the concession contracts in force and who would then ensure, from the financial point of view, the maintenance and preservation of the various motorways. In our view, the priorities that are currently being implemented by the government in this area are correct when trying to find solutions that mitigate the negative impacts of tolls on the development of territories and on the quality of life of populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u62	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u63	... preferring, of course, always, measures that give more favourable treatment to all populations and to all territories that are somehow affected by the existence of tolls. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u64	To make the last statement in this debate, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS and PSD have a very curious position. They criticize us for not solving the problems when they are the gentlemen who prevent us from solving them. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Join us in your vows and surely the problems will be solved. You don't want to, you don't. The designation « SCUT », given these motorways, meant precisely « without costs for the user ». And it was not by chance, because it was understood that the populations of the interior of the country should not be penalized with the imposition of tolls. That is, the balanced development of our country, and particularly of the interior, or the mobility in metropolitan areas where there were no other alternatives should be costed by the State to ensure precisely this mobility and the development of the interior of the country. Later, there were other values that spoke higher, including the interests of dealers, PPPs (public-private partnerships), which is what is at stake here, or the obsession with the deficit, which is also at stake here, with grave damage to the populations. The gentlemen. Members of the CDS, who cry crocodile tears for 3 cents in the gas oil, find it very good that the populations have to pay hundreds of euros of tolls. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] They no longer worry about hundreds of euros of tolls that families have to endure because you refuse to abolish the SCUT tolls. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, I do not know what justification you give your authorships, who throughout the country mobilise below-signed against SCUTs, approve motions in the local bodies against SCUTs, send delegations to the Assembly of the Republic to call for the abolition of SCUTs, participate in demonstrations against SCUTs. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I do not know what justification you give to these authorities, who understand the very serious problems that the imposition of tolls on SCUTs creates for their populations. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, then do not come "song the fairy" from the interior, do not "song the fairy" from the need to develop the interior, to avoid the desertification of the country. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] When you have the opportunity to take a concrete step to support the people of the interior of the country, you do not do so because the interests of the dealers, the PPPs, speak higher. But the people will have to be able to draw their conclusions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u66	That concludes this item on the agenda. We turn to Petition No 499 / XIII / 3. a ( Maria Teresa Saraiva Lopes da Silva et al.) — They call for legislation that grants the promotion, protection, full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with reduced capacity, together with the Draft Resolution No 1804/ XIII/3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the disabled person's life, accepted in all public services, and apply the National Functional Table for a fair allocation of the tax and social benefits to which the person with disabilities, chronic illness or disability may be entitled. To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the representatives, here present, of some 6,000 petitioners, in particular Maria Teresa Saraiva Lopes da Silva and Maria do Rosário Zincke dos Reis. The CDS-PP had the opportunity to receive and talk about the content of this petition. First of all, we wanted to say that in the CDS we have long followed the aspirations reflected in this petition. This petition deals with a reality with a large human impact, which affects a growing number of people, namely the fact that, when they are old, they lose their capabilities and therefore need a follow-up that does not necessarily lead to the abolition or even to the reduction of their rights. We are therefore talking about the autonomy, respect and dignity of the people who need to be accompanied. The CDS, together with the PSD, in the Government, presented—and we were the first to do so— several legislative initiatives that specifically aimed at responding to this situation, i.e. the respect and strengthening of the autonomy of the people with reduced capacity, and we did so, as I said, through legislative projects. It is true, however, that this year has now entered into force a regime which also plans to respond to this reality. from the CDS, we have put forward many proposals and we regret that many of them have not been followed, particularly because we believe that the regime that entered into force aims to respond and is more focused on the situation of the disabled than on the elderly. I believe that we could do more there, so in this respect, the proposal that came into force is not entirely in line with the aspirations of the petitioners. In this regard, what we have to say is that the CDS will, of course, continue to monitor and defend these aspirations for these people. We have also brought to this agenda what is an ancient aspiration and which has already been the subject of a draft resolution in this House, which has been approved and which has to do with the need to have a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the disabled person and which is accepted in all public services. Although it was approved in 2017, the fact is that the government has not yet taken concrete steps, it has not responded to this aspiration. We therefore renew this draft resolution and renew this request. I shall conclude, Mr President, by bearing in mind that, in the meantime, it has been approved in the National Functional Table and, therefore, this effort, now, of a single document, must take account of this circumstance. That is also what we are asking for here, and we hope that it will also be approved, as was the previous draft resolution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u68	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Falcato Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet the petitioners in the person of their dynamizers, because of their persistence and the importance of the issue they brought to Parliament. The amendment of existing legislation was an urgent one. As early as April 2016, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities had requested the Portuguese State to adopt the "appropriate measures so that all persons with disabilities who have been deprived of their legal capacity can exercise all the rights enshrined in the Convention, including the right to vote, marriage, to be a family and to manage goods and property". The Committee also recommended « the repeal of existing full and partial protection schemes, which eliminate or limit the legal capacity of the person and the creation of systems to support decision-making, allowing and promoting the effective exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities ». The law has been changed. New legislation is approved. However, as far as disabled people are concerned, it is necessary to go further. The law must respond to the requirements arising from the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is not yet a reality. of the 10 recommendations submitted by the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, eight were not received and two were only partially received. Therefore, during the discussion, in general, of the law, we warned about the existing failures and presented a motion for a resolution, which was adopted, on some aspects essential for the success of the application of Law No 49 / 2018. 11 months have passed and we do not know that something has been done to achieve what was approved at that time. Where is the system of support for the decision-making of people with disabilities, which enables, inter alia, informal support, especially by peers? Where do we find the register of those who support decisions of legal relevance and the system of regular monitoring of their performance? What specific training exists for people providing support, in particular with regard to rules and standards of behaviour that help the practical implementation of decision-making support systems? What steps have been taken to create informal support networks in order to help in day to day-to-day decisions? What training have judges and other justice professionals had on the rights protected by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Where is the script of good practices of the decision-making support system in order to guide the judicial authorities on how to avoid practices contrary to those stipulated by the Convention? Law No 49 / 2018 comes into force next week, but essential instruments will be missing to respect the rights of disabled people, to respect human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the petitioners for having brought the debate to the attention of the Assembly to produce legislation that enshrines the promotion, protection, full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with reduced capacity, proposing, for this purpose, a review of this regime in the Civil Code, considering that the old regime was blind, coercive and violator of the rights of citizens with reduced capacity, disregarding their will. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that at the time of the hearing of the petitioners, Law No. 49 / 2018, which was adopted after the admission of the petition by the Assembly of the Republic, came to create precisely the legal regime of the largest party, eliminating the institutes of the prohibition and incapacity provided for in the Civil Code, essentially corresponding to what is marked and proposed by the petitioners and recognizing, to this extent, the validity of the arguments that were brought. In addition, it is a law which has been assessed within a working group which has put forward other legislative initiatives, in particular the PSD Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD understood that the regime in force was inadequate and therefore ineffective. He therefore thought of a legal reform and supported it with a renewal and an essential complement to the social responses that our contemporary society requires, so that society is even more worthy and respectful of our fundamental values and rights. In fact, the PSD/CDS government even came forward with a proposal in August 2015 — that is true! — with a set of legislative initiatives also framed at the time in the Strategy for the Protection of the Elderly, a logic of legal reform, which was eventually rejected by the new majority here in the Assembly of the Republic, in December 2015. But the PSD continued to do its work and, in an improved version, also presented a new proposal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the system of the largest party is intended above all to give shape to various international principles, namely those listed in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, New York, and is still in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, since the current legal framework for disability does not meet these requirements. Thus, given the rights and principles also recognised in the New York Convention, an amendment, as has happened, to the legal regime of incapacity, as provided for in our Civil Code. PSD is a humanist party whose ideological and visionary essence of the world lies in the social concerns that integrate it. We are a moderate party and, therefore, we will never cease to be pioneers in these matters too. Regarding the project presented here by the CDS, I would like to add that of course we will associate ourselves with it because we understand that there must be a social commitment by the State to people with disabilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u72	For an intervention you now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 18 April 2018, a petition with more than 6000 subscribers was lodged at the Assembly of the Republic, a petition requesting legislation which enshrined the promotion of the full enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with reduced capacity, an initiative which constituted an exemplary exercise of citizenship and of which I had the honour to be rapporteur. at this moment, I want to make a very special reference and greet Mrs. Maria Teresa Saraiva Lopes da Silva and Maria do Rosário Zincke dos Reis, first subscribers to the petition, and, in their person, all the subscribers who accompanied them on this initiative. I do so with the same satisfaction as I did when I had the opportunity to tell you, at your hearing, particularly at that time, that the legislative process which had been de-written by Bill No 110/ XIII/3. the, which specifically promoted the revision of the Civil Code, with a particular impact on the institute of prohibition and disability, would be closed on 18 July, with the overall final vote, and that the objective and scope of the petition was assumed in this legislative process. The Government and the Assembly of the Republic, in the broad debate that they promoted, took the challenge and responsibility to take a set of concrete measures, including the revision of the Civil Code and related legislation, which allowed to change the paradigm set out in the Civil Code of 1966, with regard to the Institute of Incapacity. This ambitious reform, which will enter into force on Monday 12 February 2019, a reform adopted in August last year, took into account the experiences of structural legal orders close to ours and the binding international instruments of the Portuguese Republic, particularly the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of the United Nations, adopted in New York, on 30 March 2007, and responds to the meaning of demographic evolution and to the increase of the average life expectancy. This profound reform of our Civil Code is based on the principle of the primacy of the autonomy of the visa, whose will must be respected and exploited, to the extent possible, creating the figure of the greatest person accompanying it. The objective was to change our legal order and thus create the maximum capacity, in need and proportionality, guiding it always according to the interest and need of the people who want to protect, creating a new regime of supply of the so-called incapacity of the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the modification of the disability regime and its supply is based on the primacy of the autonomy of the visa, respecting its will, capacity and autonomy, responding to the challenges of the present. The path is that of valorization and respect for autonomy and will. This is the way that the Government and this House have taken, this is the way that you pointed out in your petition, this will be our path, a path that we will certainly continue to travel together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u74	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we wanted to congratulate the subscribers and subscribers of this petition and to say that in this debate two different subjects are being mixed up. The petition essentially refers to the need to review the regime relating to the prohibition and inability of the Portuguese Civil Code; the initiative that was dragged has to do with the shortcomings, although it is obviously an invaluable initiative. We have already found that, on the part of the proposers, there has been a request for a discharge to the committee without a vote and, of course, on our part, there will be all the availability to discuss this matter, which has to do with the creation of a single card confirming shortcomings. But the object of the petition itself makes all the sense and so much so that legislation is coming into force which essentially corresponds to what is requested. In other words, with regard to the institutes of prohibition and incapacity, which have been enshrined in the Civil Code since the 1960s, as a form of supply of disability caused by various reasons, such as ‘psychic anomaly’ or ‘denomie’ issues — using the old terminology of the Code — it has been found, with the evolution of the times, that are a rigidity which makes no sense, that is counterproductive and does not solve the problems which are clearly important. One of the major problems of contemporary societies has to do with the progressive loss of capacities of many people, depending on age, who no longer are fully able to solve their problems from day to day, although they have capacities that are important to take advantage, whenever possible. And indeed, the institutions of disability and interdiction did not have the flexibility necessary to accommodate these cases and to give the best treatment to situations where, having people lose some capabilities and need support for their full capacity to exercise rights, it is not justified in any way to resort to the prohibition, because this deprives these people, practically in all, of the capacity for the exercise of rights. This reform, which was carried out after studies carried out in depth within the Ministry of Justice, studies which were sent to this House at the time of discussion in the specialty, which was also a work done with much participation and depth, led us to changes in the Portuguese Civil Code, with regard to the treatment of the issue of disabilities, which we consider to be positive, creating in fact the figure of the "greater companion", in place of the old prohibition and disability. It seems to us that, essentially, the objective of the petitioners will have been achieved, except for a matter or other detail with which one can disagree, as is natural, but, essentially, the object of this petition has been achieved, and with this we must only congratulate ourselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u76	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on Petition No 499 / XIII / 3. a and the Resolution Project No 1804 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ), we move to the next point in our order of business, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 476 / XIII / 3. a ( Marco Diogo de Araújo Veríssimo et al.) — Recognition and appreciation of the nurses of the Public Administration as professionals to perform functions under particularly difficult conditions. At this time, the Bureau does not register, but I am sure that the parliamentary groups will quickly express their will to intervene. Thank you for doing so as soon as possible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u77	Mr President, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u78	You have the floor, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin this speech by greeting the petitioners and more than 5000 citizens who have subscribed to the petition. The petitioners are required to acknowledge and value the nurses of the Public Administration as professionals who perform functions under particularly serious conditions. Essentially, petitioners intend to extend to all nursing professionals the current incentives and bonuses, but that only apply to nurses who perform functions in units of psychiatry and oncology. For the PCP, nurses are central elements for the provision of quality, safety and timely health care in the National Health Service ( SNS ). The PCP recognizes that nurses develop their professional activity, in many cases, in situations of high penosity, with enormous physical and psychological overload and, in other circumstances, perform functions under risk and peosity conditions. We know that every day nurses face life-threatening situations and have to deal with events generating great stress and high emotional demands, so it is fair that they are recognized the exercise of the profession in conditions of penosity and risk. The publication in 1979 of Decree-Law No 62 / 79, which became known as the « diploma of quality hours », resulted largely in the recognition that the nursing profession is exercised under risk and penosity conditions and was then assigned a remuneration compensation for the performance of the functions under these conditions. On the payment of quality hours, it is important to remember, because we know that many want this to be deleted, that the previous PSD/CDS government has reduced it, and it was in this legislature, having the PCP very much contributed to this, that they have paid these values in full again. On the expansion of incentives and subsidies to all nurses, the CFP considers that this is a matter that can and should be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, but cannot dispense collective bargaining, but on the contrary, it is required that it be discussed in collective bargaining. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no National Health Service without health professionals, as there is no National Health Service without motivated, valued, socially and professionally, and integrated in their careers. The CFP will continue to fight and fight for nurses, and all health workers, to be integrated into careers and properly valued, to be given decent working conditions and adequate wages, to move towards the effective recognition that they perform functions in situations of penosity and risk and that they should therefore be duly compensated. This is the commitment that, once again, we reaffirm here to nurses and all workers in the public and private sectors, and it is for this commitment that we will continue to beat ourselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u80	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Guerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we are now debating, signed by more than 5000 citizens, which I am taking advantage of to congratulate, has now entered the Assembly of the Republic a year ago and, by single coincidence, is now appreciated in this plenary. The petitioners intend, in the bottom, the recognition and appreciation of the nurses of the Public Administration as professionals to perform functions under particularly harsh conditions. This is a fair claim, in our view, that deserves serious consideration. In fact, no one is well-faith and at least informed doubt that the professional nursing activity is generally performed under conditions of great penoness, not uncommon with manifest physical and psychic overload, as well as in situations of high risk. All these circumstances compete for a strong professional wear of nurses, the increasing majority of whom are forced to work in burnout situations. The excess work or the evident degradation of the conditions of functioning of SNS hospitals thus contribute to the undeniable demotivation of nurses. But this long and fruitless bargaining calvary that nurses' unions have carried out with a government, which systematically pushes the problems with the belly, only yielding under pressure, does no less contribute to it. It is a government that delays career progress and postpones payment of pay supplements due to those health professionals. It is a government that does not hire the professionals needed to ensure minimum quality and safety in health services, and thousands are needed, after reduced working hours, without the proper safeguarding of the effective needs of the services. Did the previous Minister of Health, Dr. Adalberto, not say recently that, and I quote, "the reasons of nurses are deeply accessible"? Oh, my God! They are, therefore, very attentive! They are fair, fair even, but, despite this, they cannot be treated, because the demagogy of three years of management is finally suffering the harsh shock of reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u83	That is why yesterday's civil request symbolizes the failure of a desperate government's negotiating capacity, the victim of the lie with which, over the last three years, he tried to deceive the Portuguese, making them believe that he had turned the page of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u85	The overwhelming degradation of public services, the non-existent investment in hospitals, the lack of clinical material, the brutal increase in waiting times for consultations and surgeries are well the brand of failed governance of the Socialist Party, with the complicit support of the Communist Party and the Left Block. On the side of the PSD, in these black days for the SNS, we appeal to the government to shake hands and stop wild adjectives, betting to turn Portuguese against Portuguese. That it is not the Head of Government to instigate, with manifestly unfortunate statements, a serious problem of overlapping rights and which requires much more common sense and capacity to negotiate and less inflamed language styles. from the PSD, we guarantee the intransigent defense of the absolute right of users to access the health services they need, the intransigent defense of the rights of users who suffer waiting for health care. For us, the centre of political activity is people and it is for them and for them we work for. Health protection is too serious and serious to become a political weapon. The Portuguese deserve and have every right to expect rationality, prudence and reasonableness both from the Government and from health professionals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u86	The next intervention lies with Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming, of course, the 5295 subscribers of the petition we are discussing today and which aims to extend to all nursing professionals who care in the Public Administration the recognition of the exercise of nursing functions under particularly painful conditions. It is important to begin by saying that, in the particular case of nursing, the law in force already recognizes this same special penosity for nurses who perform functions in psychiatry admission units and the cancer forum. In addition, it is also important to recall that, on the recognition of risk and health conditions in the exercise of nursing functions, unlike the PSD Government, it was the PS Government which, in this mandate, recovered the quality hours that had been cut in 2013 by the previous Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u88	On this matter in particular, it is important to say that penosity and insanity are not conditions alone inherent in the nursing condition itself. They are dependent on the concrete conditions in which the nursing profession is exercised, that is, penosity does not exist only because they are nurses. Certainly, all of us in this Chamber recognize that nurses who perform functions in psychiatry units or oncological forums units deserve the current recognition of penosity in the exercise of functions. But I ask: should it be so for all nurses, just because they are nurses? We don't think so! It seems to us that, in view of the current reality, it is not appropriate to generalize compensation for all nurses. To make this generalization would, in fact, violate a basic principle of the rule of law, according to which one must treat equally what is equal and different what is different. I believe that we all agree that we cannot treat equally nurses who are subject to physical and psychological overload, who work in shifts, and other nursing professionals in a different situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Angela Correia, if there is a professional class that was the target of the action of the PS and the government, it was the nurses.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u89	My name isn't Correia, it's War!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u90	I apologize for the mistake! in these four years it was not possible, it is true, to carry out everything that nurses asked for, but it was possible to move forward, contrary to what happened in the Government of V.E.a,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u92	... where they retreated, retreated and retreated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u93	It's all right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u94	We advanced in the number of professionals, advanced in working hours, advanced in quality hours, you cut, advanced in pay supplement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u95	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u96	... we advanced in professional categories of specialists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u97	Tell that to the petitioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u98	...we advanced in the return of income. Everything, getting back what you guys cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u99	Tell that to the patients who are waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u100	But, in particular, on the subject matter of this petition, the Socialist Party still considers that, despite the fact that it is not desirable, for the reasons added, the widespread recognition of penosity is possible to move forward. It is possible to discuss, in future, whether or not it is justified to consider the exercise of functions under particularly harsh conditions for other nursing professionals who are currently not covered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u101	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block, I would like to greet and greet the petitioners and, through them, also, all the nursing professionals, all the nurses of Portugal. I wanted even to take advantage of the discussion of this petition to remember that nurses are one of the fundamental pillars of the construction of the National Health Service, and they are - also - when working in complementarity with the other professions. There are no SNS without nurses, I repeat, there are no SNS without nurses, who work together with other professions and therefore we cannot replace this joint work and this joint construction of the National Health Service by fights between professions where some seem to want to dive. I leave a second note to remember that the National Health Service has strengthened, strengthened and will strengthen, where the demands of nurses improve the conditions of the users and the services provided to users in the National Health Service ; and will not be strengthened when the focus of the user is lost to place it or concentrate on the personal agenda of any staff. This will not be the way to strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u104	We believe that there are very few who and those who do not want to strengthen the National Health Service and therefore we speak to most nurses, once again recognizing their work and stressing the importance of their demands for the National Health Service. Going to the object of the petition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u105	Oh, right now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u106	... the profession of nurse is a profession of sharp wear, it is a profession with marked penosity. No one has any doubt about it! But also no one has doubts or can forget that quality hours have been restored. The PSD and the CDS-PP voted against in the State Budget, but quality hours have already been restored. 35 hours were also returned. The PSD and CDS-PP do not agree with them—they are not very interested in this debate! — but were returned at 35 hours. However, there is still much to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u107	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u108	There is no need to guarantee the hiring of more professionals, no doubt;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u109	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u110	... there is no guarantee—and this is fundamental! — the fair progression in the career of nursing professionals, and I remember that it could already have been guaranteed in the State Budget for 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u111	They should have made their bills before!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u112	... but the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, and even the PCP, did not follow a proposal from the Left Block that guarantees the fair counting of service time ; and it is also necessary to ensure that shiftwork and nightwork relate to the retirement age and still ensure the reduction of working time. From that point of view, and to this end, the Left Block has a bill under discussion at this time in the Assembly of the Republic on shiftwork and nightwork. If this bill is approved, it will apply-CL to all nurses and all professionals who, due to night work and shift work, have a special penosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u113	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u114	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the challenge, to all parliamentary groups, is that they approve the bill of the Left Block in this sense. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u115	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by greeting the more than 5000 subscribers of this petition, in the person of Marco Veríssimo, the first subscriber. Focusing on what the petition, the petitioners and the citizens who address us basically want, what is at stake here is to extend a set of incentives and bonuses that already exist for certain types of functions, in the profession of nurses, to others. This, on the basis of the argument that penosity, wear, basically, those reasons that justify the existence of this exceptional regime for some members of this professional class apply to all of them. Therefore, although they do not invoke it expressly, it is a logic of principle of equality — contrary to what has been said here! — the same enlargement is intended. It is a serious issue, which must be debated in a responsible way, without any kind of manichisism, diabolisms, personal accusations, one against another, as we have seen here, seeking to defend what is essential: the right of users, the right of Portuguese to health and, of course, the right to fair and equitable treatment of these professionals, specifically nurses. It is, of course, with this responsibility that I will say, on behalf of the CDS, that this claim has a short-term difficulty. This short-term difficulty has to do with the financial impact it would have on the current State budget and the fact that it can only be envisaged in the following year, particularly under the labour law. You have to tell people things sincerely, because if you don't, then people stop believing in what we say...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u117	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u118	...and perhaps, sometimes, with some reason. It is not enough to have good intentions about the National Health Service, to say that people are right and to say that, on the side of the Left Block, there is a project, but then we know—because we all know! — even if it was approved, only in 2020 could this project come into force and people see its problems solved. It is a complex issue, it is a matter that deserves thought, it is a question which, perhaps, even deserves enlargement—even if this enlargement may not be complete, for all cases—but it is a matter which does not hide what we cannot but say today, which is the state in which this majority and this government are leaving the National Health Service. And you have to say it clearly! We live in a state where people are often left to give up in hospitals — an essential function of the state! — in which the Government, instead of trying to negotiate with the partners and seek to reach conclusions, has a kind of arrogant attitude, with ticks even authorities, in which it insults those who should be the first to seek to raise awareness of the delicateness of the matter, on behalf of the National Health Service, which says so much to defend, but which then, in practice, does little to maintain and strengthen. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear - and with this I conclude, Mr President - the law is to comply. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u119	The law is to comply and it is to comply for all. The general principles of law are for everyone to fulfil and I do not see any more important principle in an executive function, in a government function, provided for in the Constitution, than that of social dialogue. It is the principle of seeking solutions and not problems, of not accusing and not labeling people. And in this, this government is failing all over the line! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u120	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate on Petition No 476 / XIII / 3. a. We now pass to the assessment of Petition No 494 / XIII / 3. a (Margarida Tavares Peralta Couto dos Santos et al.) — Letter for public participation in health. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and the petitioners who are in the galleries and who bring to the Assembly of the Republic this idea of creating a letter for public participation in health. I stress, firstly, that the very construction of this letter — the very construction of the documents that instruct this letter, which justify it — is a great example of citizen participation in public health policies, because it involved hundreds of people, involved dozens of organizations, involved debates throughout the country, one of them so far in the Assembly of the Republic, in which all parliamentary groups participated. This is therefore a good example, which would be important to replicate within the National Health Service. The Constitution of the Republic also provides for this participation of citizens and citizens, with or without disease, in the definition, conduct and management of public health policies, and makes sense that this is so, because the National Health Service is a conquest of democracy, is a popular conquest and has been made for people. Therefore, people, users, citizens, should participate more within the National Health Service, not only as users, when they need health care, but also in the definition and management of health policies, of what is everyone's, which is the National Health Service. Often, it is said that the National Health Service has to have the user in the center, and we fully agree, but in order to have the user in the center, then we have to have the user of the National Health Service to define health policies. This is not just about having the user at the center of the doctor's, nurse's or other health professional's point of view, but about having the user at the center as a political agent, which defines what the National Health Service should be. The Block of Left therefore accompanies the claims and the objective of this petition: to recognize and create the charter for public participation in health, to promote the participation of citizens in the National Health Plan, to deepen and implement definitively the participation of citizens in regional health administrations, to deepen and implement definitively the participation of citizens in the community councils of health centres, to promote and deepen the participation of citizens in the advisory councils of hospitals and to train all people to participate in health. We fully monitor all these objectives and therefore presented a bill that points to the realization of all of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u122	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u123	I conclude, Mr President, saying that unfortunately we cannot discuss and vote on this project today because of amendments to the rules of procedure to which the Block objected, but the project has entered and will be discussed as soon as it is scheduled to carry out what the petitioners are asking the Assembly to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u124	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP, I would like to greet the thousands of signatories to Petition No 494 / XIII / 3. the, which bring, in this legislature, to the Assembly of the Republic the important concern of public participation in health. For the PCP, the participation of users in health services has been more than a concern, has been a constant struggle. The draft basic law on the health policy of the CFP is proof of this, because it makes it clear that it is for the State to encourage the democratic participation of populations, local entities and authorities in health policy, at national, regional and local levels. It understands the PCP that populations, health professionals, their associations and professional orders contribute to the pursuit of the objectives of the Health Bases Act. It should also be noted that in the previous legislation, the Assembly of the Republic has consolidated legislation on the rights and duties of health service users, through Law No 15 / 2014, where it can be read, in Article 10. o « The health services user has the right to constitute entities that represent him or her and defend his or her interests» and « (...) may constitute entities that cooperate in the form of associations for the promotion and protection of health or groups of friends of health institutions. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is also important to say that user movement and user committees, as well as patient associations, have played a very important role in defending access to health care and the National Health Service. We can conclude, then, that it is not because of the lack of legal provisions that users do not contribute in a manner involved in health decisions, but conditions need to be created for these rights to participate, in fact, to be realized. It is therefore fair that conditions are created so that users can contribute to ensuring that health care is adequate to their needs and priorities. in this sense, the PCP argues that the strengthening of the general, universal and free SNS is also achieved through public management, decentralized and participated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public participation in health matters is really important, but before, it is necessary to assume that public management is the only model of management that serves the National Health Service, users and professionals. There will only be room for user participation if management is public. Only with the intransigent defence of the right to health for all, regardless of their socio-economic conditions, can equality, quality, security and participation be guaranteed to all Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u126	For an intervention, Mrs. Isaura Pedro of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners and congratulate them warmly on this initiative. In fact, the petition we are discussing today is no petition whatsoever. If it is true that all petitions deserve serious and careful weighting, the appeal of the more than 4000 citizens subscribing to Petition No 494 / XIII / 3. it is to increase the public participation of citizens in the field of health, regardless of whether or not they are in the context of disease. This petition also brings together the support of about one hundred representative associations of people with and without disease, a fact that demonstrates well the importance it assumes with the organized society in the health sector. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party fully shares the aims and objectives of the petitioners, since, like them, it considers that the participation of citizens in the decision-making process in health is essential to achieve fair, balanced, transparent decisions and, above all, in the service of the common good. It is true that there are already some institutionalized forms of citizen participation in the field of health, as well as projects and programs aimed at users and even their representative associations, but we must recognize that much is still to be done. For this reason, in the draft basic health law presented by the PSD at the beginning of the year, whose discussion will take place in the near future, we consider as a fundamental guideline the participation of people and the community in the definition, monitoring and evaluation of health policies, as well as in the planning and control of the functioning of services. The PSD naturally recognizes the right of persons to constitute entities that represent them and defend their rights and interests with health services and in particular the Ministry of Health itself. Be these associations of health-care users, of people with disease, of informal caregivers, whether they are meant to promote health and prevention of the disease or simply leagues of friends from health institutions, we consider them welcome and even fundamental to good health practice in the various dimensions that it always assumes, from the legislative level to regulation and even operational. For us, PSD, the participation of citizens must be ensured and even promoted, preferably in a concrete way, in everything that respects people's rights and interests in the context of health. in this sense, the institution of a letter for public participation in health, as petitioners today propose, can prove to be a decisive tool to strengthen and improve the involvement of citizens in the process of the functioning of services and other entities that intervene in the health sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u128	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u129	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is with this strong conviction that we once again greet the petitioners in the certainty that their appeal deserves acceptance and constitutes a challenge for all political decision makers, especially the Ministry of Health, to see an ally in the citizen and to find in their participation an opportunity to improve the health system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners and thank them not only for the petition themselves, but basically what the petition proposes, this letter for participation in health. This is a very involved document, which contributes to what we want from the construction of citizenship in Portugal, and the very definition of the project has many organizations and many meetings, so we should welcome the liveliness of civil society in this process. This letter for public participation in health meets what must be a fundamental pillar of health services in the 21st century, the most relevant theme being the moment we discuss in this Parliament a new law of health bases, which is intended to be adapted to new times and new realities. WHO ( World Health Organization ), the Council of Europe and the European Union advocate the need to ensure public participation in the health system. The government's proposed basic health law wants to focus the SNS on a public response, in people as centers of all public health policy, and meets the recommendations of international organizations and this petition. The government's proposed basic health law, together with other bills, presented by all banks, is at the stage of work in the field of specialty. The letter for public participation in health should be framed by the basic law and therefore it is the Socialist Party's understanding that it should be legislated on public participation after the adoption of the new basic health law. However, the Socialist Party considers it essential to take an immediate step to promote more and better participation. For this reason, we have already presented a draft resolution that recommends to the Government that it implement and develop transversal and effective mechanisms of public participation of people, with or without disease, and its representatives, in the definition, implementation and evaluation of health policy in public, private and social services. We hope that this draft resolution will be accompanied by all the banks, with the commitment that, after the adoption of the new basic health law, we will revisit the possibility of legislation of another nature, so that this letter for public participation in health becomes a law of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u132	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the representatives here today of the more than 4000 signatories of this petition and thank their civic participation and their example of citizenship, with which we can of course only congratulate ourselves. The CDS subscribes and accompanies the need for public participation in the definition of health policies and to promote, increasingly, health literacy, so that citizens are less and less passive and increasingly active subjects, in an alliance model, which, in our understanding, must preside over the promotion of health and zeal for the health of themselves. In fact, for us, health policy should be a cross-cutting concern in all areas of public policy, something that is also reflected in the draft basic health law that we have presented. Therefore, this is the occasion to reinforce that we have no doubt about the need for public policies to be the guarantor of the right to health protection, but these are, as I said, transversal policies to all areas of governance, policies of the health system, which obviously go beyond the public response, even though we are today, sadly, without means, with complex situations guaranteeing citizens access to the best health care, since, being public response a pillar, it is not the only one. Therefore, it is central to us that health policies guarantee the right to health protection, but it is important that the results are focused on citizens and not on ideological obsession, which leads to the results that we are seeing and which are far, far from ensuring the right to health that must be maintained. So, Mr President, and I will finish, I mean that we obviously welcome the letter for the public participation of the citizens. This is the same thing that is contained in several of the bases that we have maintained and that we have underlined in our draft health-based law, but we hope that, indeed, and this has to be said, there is an investment to make literacy in health a reality, because, unfortunately, it is not what we have been watching either. The literature for health, the promotion of literature for health requires investment in these matters and, therefore, we hope that, in order to meet your petition and the real needs of the citizens, this investment may go beyond project and pass on concrete investment in these matters and in these activities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u134	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on Petition No 494 / XIII / 3. a. We will enter the voting period, so I ask the services that operate the electronic quorum verification system. Before we begin the voting, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill Nos 181 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes the regime for the settlement of disputes between judicial courts and administrative and tax courts, regulating the composition, competence, functioning and proceedings before the Court of Conflict, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 182 / XIII / 4. a — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by accepting the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, which goes down to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Bills No. 1111 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of persecution, allowing the application of the preventive measure for the prohibition of contact with the victim, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1112 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Encourages renting rooms to students by amending the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions, approved by Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 in the current wording, which falls to 5. the Commission, 1113 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Determines greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence crimes, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1115 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in the value of scholarships in public higher education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1116 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — establishes a transitional system for the exemption of propines in public higher education, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1117 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Determines as the only consequence of the failure to comply with the payment of propines the non-recognition of the academic act, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1118 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of taxes and emoluments in public higher education institutions, which falls to 8. a ( PCP ) — Phased elimination of propines in public higher education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1120 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary temporary accommodation plan for students in public higher education, which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 1121 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing debt regulation mechanisms for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions. He entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 110 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 3 / 2019 of 11 January: eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 1 August — access to the activity and market of taxi transport. Finally, they also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos 1972 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government resolve the delay in the processing of pensions, which falls to 5. the Commission, 1973 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Prevention of soil contamination and remedy to safeguard the environment and public health, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By an expansion of the Lisbon metropolitan network articulated with the mobility needs of the Metropolitan Area, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1975 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government more public participation in health, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1976 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement measures to prevent and combat domestic violence, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1977 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Improving the housing conditions of displaced students, which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u136	Mr Duarte Pacheco, thank you for this effort, even above under inadequate noise conditions in the Chamber. Now, yes, we are going to check the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 209 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members João Oliveira, of the PCP, and Cristovão Norte, of the PSD, making a total of 211 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with Vote No 716 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS, PSD, PCP, BE, and CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Commander José Arruda, who will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u137	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of the President of the National Directorate of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, Commander José Arruda. Born in 1949, in the city of Movene, in Mozambique, José Arruda conducted the commercial course at the School of Commercial Lourenço Marques, where he developed a promising career as a basketball athlete until 1971, when he was forced to join the compulsory military service until 1974. In 1971, he was injured during the Colonial War which occurred between 1961 and 1975, in an accident resulting in blindness and amputation of the upper left limb. It was therefore in 1973, during his stay in the annex to the main military hospital, that he actively participated in the movement to support the creation of the Statute of the Deficiencies of the Armed Forces, having participated in the first general assembly of the newly created Association of the Deficiencies of the Armed Forces ( ADFA ), which emerged following the April 1974 Revolution. He returned to Mozambique and finally returned to Portugal in the early 1980s, period from which he was resolutely involved in the movement of people with disabilities and in the fight for human rights, not only in ADFA, but also in the Association of Blinds and Amblyopes of Portugal, in the Federation of Sports for Deficients, in the Association of Support for the Former Combatants Victims of War Stress and in the Association of Deficient Youth. Of the various representations and executive positions he performed, José Arruda was still distinguished in 2004 with the Order of Merit in 2008 decorated with the Order of Freedom in 2014 with the Medal of National Defence and, in 2016, thanks to the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. With the motto ‘all in the same trench—no one stays behind’, Commander José Arruda was an unmistakable reference to the universe of national defense, but also to Portuguese society, which owes him much due to the tireless work of active combat and always determined by the rights of persons with disabilities, especially in the Armed Forces. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to a life of citizenship and struggle for the rights of the disabled and manifests to the family, friends and comrades of José Arruda the most sorry for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also associated with this vote. Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now pass to Vote No 730 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PSD Members ) — Unfortunately for all women victims of domestic violence in Portugal, which will also be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u139	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Throughout the world, the overwhelming majority of victims of domestic violence are women, and women are also the victims of the most aggressive forms of violence. During 2018, 28 women were murdered in Portugal in the context of domestic or gender-based violence, 8 more than in 2017. Since 1 January of this year, 9 women have already died in a domestic context, which represents double the same period and almost a third the same period in 2018. Women who have fallen into the hands of lovers, husbands or even former partners, in crimes that leave deep marks, and often irrecoverable, in families, especially when there are children involved. In addition to deeply worrying, these growing numbers of violence in Portugal deserve our deepest condemnation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret for all women victims of violence in Portugal and for the increase in the number of deaths in the context of domestic or gender violence. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now pass to Vote No 731 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members ).............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "Violence against women and, in particular, domestic violence is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations and we are faced every day with reports of cases that demonstrate the need to act persistently in preventing and combating this phenomenon. This is a crime with enormous social impact and, unfortunately, violence against women continues to be considered as a private matter, leading many women to hesitate to denounce it, or to be deterred from doing so, by their family or by the community. This year alone, in our country, 10 women have already died, murdered within their families, a significant and worrying increase in relation to the homologous period of last year, meaning that this phenomenon is sadly far from diminishing. In the fight against domestic and gender violence, Portugal has been internationally recognized for its good practices, implemented in the promotion of public policies, through which successive governments have been implementing national action plans with measures to prevent and combat this phenomenon. in this sense, it has been consensually assumed, by political decision makers, the need to invest in strengthening prevention and combating domestic violence. However, we know that there is still much to do, particularly at the level of system-wide improvement, coordination of all actors and effective implementation of victim protection measures, whether direct or indirect victims, such as children exposed to acts of inter-parent violence. Violence against women and domestic violence are neither acceptable nor acceptable and, in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, regrets the victims of domestic violence crimes and reaffirms its commitment to preventing and combating this serious violation of human rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is Vote No 732 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — I regret the victims of domestic violence, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u143	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Domestic violence is, in the category of crimes against people, the most deadly crime in Portugal. In the last 15 years, 503 women died and nearly 600 were victims of attempted murder, and in 2019, in just one month there were already nine homicides and the death of a child. Like other crimes, such as rape, this is a gender-based crime that affects women, taking their lives and, when that does not happen, destroying personal, professional and family life. Besides women, children are also victims of this heinous crime, either because they themselves are victims of aggression, or because they are used and manipulated. This is a reality that should serve, for example, if it ended the myth that a parent can simultaneously be an aggressor and a good father. Eighteen years ago, it was legislated to ensure that this crime was a matter of everyone and everyone. After all this time, there is still much to do, many women and many children to protect. For every woman who dies at the hands of the one in whom I should trust, for every child who is subjected to this atrocious violence, there is always the question: what could have been done to avoid? Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret for all women victims of femicide in the context of domestic violence in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u144	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we passed to Vote No 734 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by members of the PS, PSD and PCP of the Subcommission for Equality and Non-Discrimination and subscribed by other members of the PS and PSD727) — Condemning and weighing for victims of gender-based violence and their families. I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « In 2003 the United Nations declared February 6, day of zero tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation ( MGF ). In 2019 the theme chosen is ‘ Translate political decisions into concrete actions at national and grassroots levels to achieve the goal of zero tolerance to MGF by 2030. ’ UNFPA, UNICEF and UN Women, three United Nations agencies, on International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation, presented a joint call for action to eliminate female genital mutilation by 2030. Female genital mutilation violates the human rights of women and girls which, under no circumstances, can be justified by ancestral practices. According to United Nations data, there are more than 200 million women and girls in the world who are victims of this practice and if nothing is done by 2030 it will be more than 15 million. In Portugal it is estimated that about 6,000 women mutilated live in the country, from countries such as Guinea-Bissau, Guinea-Conakri and Senegal. Portugal has since 2007 plans of action to combat female genital mutilation, now integrated into the National Strategy for Equality and Not Discrimination 2018 - 2030, Portugal + Equal. The Portuguese Parliament has been an active voice against female genital mutilation either through the Parliamentary Group for Population and Development and the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination, either through legislative initiatives following the Istanbul Convention, affirming the universality and respect for the human rights of women and girls, inalienable and indivisible according to the international conventions ratified by Portugal. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, says about female genital mutilation, that with the dignity, health and well-being of millions of girls at stake there is no time to lose. Together, we can and must end this harmful practice. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reaffirms its commitment to make every effort to combat female genital mutilation in the fulfilment of the United Nations Agenda 2030, so that no more girl will be mutilated and no one will be left behind. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u146	Mrs. Members, there was a small confusion, because what has just been read was Voto No. 727 / XIII — Congratulations on the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation. Therefore, when this vote is taken forward, it will only be voted on. I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed, then, at the reading of vote No 734 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by members of the PS, the PSD and the PCP of the Sub-Commission on Equality and Non-Discrimination ) — Condemnation and concern for victims of gender-based violence and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "Violence against women is one of the greatest obstacles to achieving equality and democracy. In Portugal, prevention and combating domestic violence have taken political priority in all governments. We have been in line with the signing and ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which implies a holistic approach, since the prevention of violence to the protection of women and girls at risk of violence, criminalization of aggressors and adoption and promotion of integrated policies. General Recommendation No. 35 of the CEDAW Committee, adopted in July 2017, also explicitly states that violence against women constitutes a manifestation of historical inequalities in power relations and is one of the main obstacles to the full realization of equality between men and women. Despite the existing legislative building, the truth is that the spiral of violence persists and still dies women victims of this overwhelming crime, which always takes on borders of particular perversion and violence, reaching the entire family sphere and children, in particular. It is urgent to comply with the recommendations of the team of Retrospective Analysis of Homicide in Domestic Violence and GREVIO and establish as an objective the strengthening of the effectiveness of the judicial system, the imperative need for coordination and follow-up of all cross-cutting strategies to combat gender violence, emphasizing the actions of training, awareness, prevention and deepening of knowledge, as well as the proper articulation between the various entities involved in this area — security forces, the judicial system, health and social protection mechanisms. In 2018, according to data from the UMAR Women's Observatory, 28 murders were recorded in the context of domestic and gender violence and the year 2019 has already registered 10 victims, one of which is a two-year-old child. These numbers that take themselves as dramas and attacks on human rights must embarrass us and call upon us to act courageously so that no more women die because they are women. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation and its deepest sorrow for all these deaths and human dramas associated with them, aware that each victim asks us to look for the deep and structural causes of this phenomenon that seems not to give in and summons us all and to all. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u148	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we keep a minute of silence concerning the five votes of regret, I report that are in the galleries the widow and the children of Commander José Arruda, as well as the new President of the Association of Armed Forces Deficients. So let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Vote No / XIII / 4. a ( presented by non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP and subscribed by PS and BE Members ) — Condemning threats to the physical integrity of political office holders and human rights activists in Brazil, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u149	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The threats to the physical integrity of political office holders and human rights activists are threats to democracy and deserve the surveillance of all democrats. Jean Wyllys, Federal Member of the House of Deputies of Brazil, announced the decision not to take up the third term for which he was re-elected in 2018 and to leave Brazil. This decision was justified by the intensification of death threats that have been targeted, together with their family since 2011 and by the dissemination of defamatory campaigns that have contributed to the intensification of these threats. The imminent risk situation made Wyllys, since March 2018, forced himself to live under police escort and to travel by armored car. In November 2018, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States recognized that Jean Wyllys was in a situation of gravity and urgency that put her life and physical integrity at risk. Jean Wyllys, the only assumedly gay Federal Member, stood out for the defence of human rights and the causes of minorities and, in particular, of the LGBTI community. To also highlight its fight against harassment and violence against women, as well as to defend the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. In 2012, in recognition of his work, he was decorated with the Order of the Judiciary of Labour. Democracy assumes that political office holders are assured of the effectiveness of their fundamental rights and, in particular, the right to have all the conditions necessary for the exercise of political activity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its condemnation of all acts contributing to the intolerance and deterioration of fundamental rights and the security conditions of holders of political positions and human rights activists in Brazil. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u150	Let's vote the vote that just got read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against the favour of getting up. [[At the moment, three PSD members (Carlos Páscoa Gonçalves, José Cesario and Miguel Morgado) rose.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain, please stand up. [[Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP have now risen.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I'm asking you to stand up. Members who vote in favour. [[At the moment, the members of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 3 members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, Assumption Cristas and João Pinho de Almeida) rose.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote was approved. He voted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Greens, PAN, Non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 3 CDS-PP ( Ana Rita Bessa, Assunção Cristas and João Pinho de Almeida ), votes against 3 PSD ( Carlos Páscoa Gonçalves, José Cesario and Miguel Morgado ) and abstentions of PSD and CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u152	Have you asked for the floor to what effect, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u153	Mr President, it is for a quick appeal to the Bureau. I have been a Member of Parliament for many years and I think that at the time of the vote, the Bureau should appeal to the honourable Members. Members in the sense that there are no separate words, loose words and expressions said out loud. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that, at the time of the vote, we must respect each other's individual will. That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u154	Madam Member, thank you very much for the advice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u156	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u157	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed to Vote No 728 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community in Venezuela and of condemnation of the position taken by the Portuguese Government in support of the ongoing coup d'état against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u159	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The recognition by the PS Government of Venezuela's self-proclaimed ‘Interim President’ constitutes a grave precedent in the international relations of the Portuguese State, a clear violation of the Portuguese Constitution and a challenge to the sovereignty and independence of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, the Venezuelan people, the Charter of the United Nations and international law. by openly supporting the coup against Venezuela, in the wake of the interests of the country and the Portuguese people, the PS government aligns itself with the most reactionary sectors and becomes responsible for the escalation of aggression, carried out by Trump administration and supported by the Latin American extreme right and by the European Union, and for its serious and dangerous consequences for the people of Venezuela and the Portuguese community there. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] « The interests of the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese people, including the Portuguese community in that country, do not defend themselves by aligning themselves with those responsible for attempts at coups de state, violence and terrorism, sanctions and economic blockade, illegal confiscation of Venezuela's goods and financial resources or provocations at its border with the so-called ‘humanitarian aid’, or with the threat of Trump's military intervention. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : Condemns the recognition by the Portuguese Government of the self-proclamation, manufactured by the Trump administration and supported by Governments such as Bolsonaro, a Venezuelan extreme right-wing leader as Venezuela's ‘ interim president’ ; Condemns attempts at coup d'état, violence and terrorism, sanctions and economic blockade, illegal confiscation of goods and financial resources and threats of military intervention by Trump administration against the Venezuelan people; It considers that the defence of the peace and aspirations of the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community in Venezuela can only be assured by respecting the right of the Venezuelan people to decide, without external interference, their future. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u160	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[PCP protests.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to respond to Mrs Roseta's call to the Bureau to respect the vote, which is an important moment of our work every week, perhaps even the most important. We will proceed to vote No 729 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by a PSD Member ) — From solidarity to the Portuguese community in Venezuela and from greeting to the efforts for the democratic transition in that country, which will be read by Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u161	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: " Venezuela is experiencing a situation of enormous political and social instability. While on the streets there is increasing support for the democratic transition with increasingly expressive manifestations of support for the end of dictatorship, the reaction of the Maduro regime by not responding to numerous calls for free and democratic elections is a source of tension and significant concern. in this context, it is relevant the progressive, and ever wider, recognition of Juan Guaidó as interim President, in order to ensure the democratic transition and the holding of free elections. The overwhelming majority of the countries of Latin America, the United States and Canada, the European Parliament, as well as most of the countries of the European Union, among which Portugal has — and well — expressed support for the Acting President Juan Guaidó and for this position in favour of holding free elections. The issue in Venezuela today is between democracy and dictatorship, in a scenario of extreme conflictality and complexity, in a country where, as a result of the Maduro regime, there is an extreme shortage, almost everything is missing and millions of Venezuelans have already left the country. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: 1 — Welcomes the international recognition of Juan Guaidó as Acting President of Venezuela, joining his voice to all those who have done so before, thus recognizing his decisive role in the democratic transition in that country; 2 — Expresses solidarity with the Portuguese and Luso-descendants and their concern with that community, supporting the strengthening of all efforts to ensure that they receive the support they need, including urgent drug support, considering that it is still essential that all those who want to return to Portugal can do so, and that they are assured and supported their integration into Portuguese society. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u162	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, PCP and Os Verdes and abstentions from 4 PS Members (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Isabel Alves Moreira, Porfirio Silva and Sérgio Sousa Pinto).]] The following vote No 733 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PSD and PS ) — Of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and of concern for the political situation, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u163	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The strong political, economic and social instability experienced in Venezuela over the past few years has been a constant concern of the Assembly of the Republic, particularly due to the significant Portuguese and Luso-descendant community there. Portugal, following the position of the European Union, called for the democratic resolution of the political deadlock, recognizing Juan Guaidó as acting President, so that he could, within the democratic framework, convene new presidential elections, giving the Venezuelan people the opportunity to freely and democratically express himself in the choice of the new President of the Republic. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : Reaffirms the importance of respect for the democratic way, through the auscultation of the highest will of the Venezuelan people in free elections, duly accompanied by the international community, as a way to overcome the grave political crisis in Venezuela ; Expresses its deep solidarity with all the Venezuelan people and, in particular, with the Portuguese community, calling for the establishment of an effective international humanitarian aid plan, with the aim of supporting the population; Recognizes the importance of the role to be played by Juan Guaidó, as Acting President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, with the task of convening and organizing free, inclusive and democratic elections in accordance with internationally accepted democratic practices in accordance with the Constitution of Venezuela ; Follows the efforts of the Portuguese Government in the International Contact Group to support the democratic resolution of the political impasse in Venezuela ; It follows the efforts of the Government of the Republic, the Regional Government of Madeira and several authorities and institutions which have supported and followed the integration of the Luso-descendants who have returned to Portugal ; Recalls the need for the European Union to create a plan to support the return of Europeans to their countries of origin following the political and economic crisis in Venezuela ; He recognizes the very delicate mission of diplomats and other Portuguese officials in Venezuela, who have been able to perform their duties with high professionalism and sense of public service. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u164	Let us now vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira voted against BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u165	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u166	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u167	Mr President, it is to inform that Mr Porfirio Silva, Mrs Isabel Moreira and I will deliver a statement of vote on the votes that have just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed to Vote No 727 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the members of the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development and subscribed by PSD, PS, NAP, CDS-PP, PCP and BE. ) — Congratulations on the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation. Once this vote has been read, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1971 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1548 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends urgent registration and notary measures to the Government. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1935 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the memory of the three members of the Congress of the Portuguese Republic who died as a result of fighting in the Great War of 1914 - 18. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the Bill No 1048 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Adequate Food and Nutrition Basics Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u169	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u170	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u171	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, during the morning, an application has been submitted to the Commission without a vote for a period of 60 days, which has also been distributed to all banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u172	Mr. Deputies, I didn't have that information. We shall therefore vote on the request made by BE, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a vote for a period of 60 days on draft Law No 1048 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Adequate Food and Nutrition Basics Act. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore drops to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 481 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes a special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for workers of the pier. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 520 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the special scheme for access to the invalidity and old-age pension of workers of stone. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We also generally vote for Bill No. 894 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Stipulates that farm workers have access to a special scheme for the allocation of invalidity and old age pensions. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u173	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u174	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u175	It's going to be unregistered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u176	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last three draft laws. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u179	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u180	Mr President, it is also to announce that, with regard to the vote on the last three draft laws, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u181	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the vote, so I would ask you to avoid dialogues between the various banks or between the various Members. We now vote in general on draft resolution No 1891 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reorganise the curricula in basic and secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and PS and PAN abstaining.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1936 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad and deep national debate on the reorganization of teaching cycles and the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members if we can vote via the draft resolutions or if we have to vote individually. Can we vote them together?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u182	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u183	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u184	Mr President, we are not opposed to this voting mechanism 'green way'. It is necessary to vote on the projects of each route which are exactly the same, because they are not all the same. in this case of removing the collection of tolls, I believe that we can associate the draft resolutions of the various parliamentary groups that concern each highway.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u185	Let us then vote together, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 1833 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing the tolls on the Via do Infante, 1830 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A22 / Via do Infante and 1861 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Way of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u187	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u188	Mr President, it is to announce that Members Jamila Madeira, Fernando Anastácio, Ana Passos and I will present a statement of vote on these three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then have three draft resolutions on the elimination of tolls in A25. We can also vote them together if there is no objection. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1834 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25, 1829 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A25 and 1857 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A25. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 9 PS (Elza Pais, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, João Marques, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, Marisabel Moutela and Santinho Pacheco) and abstentions of the PSD and CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue to vote jointly, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 1836 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A24, 1828 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A24 and 1858 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A24. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 9 PS (Assent Simões, Elza Pais, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, João Marques, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Marisabel Moutela and Santinho Pacheco) and abstentions from PSD and CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we will proceed in the same way, voting jointly, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 1837 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A23, 1827 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A23 and 1859 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By abolishing tolls in A23. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 13 PS Members (Edite Estrela, Elza Pais, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, João Marques, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Margarida Marques, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos, Marisabel Moutela, Miranda Calha, Odete João and Santinho Pacheco) and PS abstentions, CDS-PP and 3 PS Deputies (António Gameiro, Hugo Costa and Maria Lopes).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u191	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u192	Mr. President, it is to announce that I and Mr. Mr António Gameiro and Mr Maria Lopes will present a statement of vote on the A23 votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u195	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u196	It is for the same purpose, Mr President. It is to be announced that I will give a statement of vote on the vote of six diplomas, in particular those relating to A23 and A25, on my behalf and the honourable Members. Mr Carlos Peixoto and Mr Manuel Frexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u197	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u198	I also call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u199	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u200	Mr President, it is to announce that I will give a vote on the draft resolutions on A23, A24 and A25, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u201	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1359 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government move the « stadium gate » in order to safeguard the interests of the local economy of Aveiro and of all those who have to travel in the urban mesh of that city. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and 6 PS (António Cardoso, Ascension Simões, Carla Tavares, Filipe Neto Brandão, Porfirio Silva and Sérgio Sousa Pinto) and abstentions from PSD, BE and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1521 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 63 / 2013 for a study of an alternative to the « stadium porch », defending the best interests of Aveiro and ending with a serious injustice towards the veirenses. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and 6 PS (António Cardoso, Ascension Simões, Carla Tavares, Filipe Neto Brandão, Porfírio Silva and Sérgio Sousa Pinto), votes against PS, PCP and Os Verdes and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1558 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of tolls on the so-called motorway of Pinhal Interior ( A13 section, between the Enthronement and Coimbra, and A13.1, which links the Condeix ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 4 PS (Elza Pais, Isabel Cruz, João Gouveia and Pedro Coimbra), votes against the PS and abstentions of 5 PS (António Gameiro, Hortense Martins, Hugo Costa, Maria Lopes and João Marques).]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u202	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u204	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I and Mr. Elza Pais, Isabel Cruz and João Gouveia will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u207	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u208	Mr President, with regard to the last vote, I do not think you have mentioned my name as I have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u209	Mr President, when I asked those who voted in favour, I said 'the rest', so it is one of the others! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u210	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u211	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u212	Mr President, it is to announce that I and the Members themselves. Mr António Gameiro and Mr Maria Lopes will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In reply to Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I must say that in the rest of the group, for example, were also the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP. Mr. João Marques, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u214	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Hortense Martins on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1835 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41 / A42 and A29. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 2 PS (Carla Sousa and Maria Conceição Loureiro) and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u216	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u217	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u218	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u219	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u221	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u222	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to the vote already taken, of draft resolution No 1521 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ), the PCP vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u223	All right, Mr. Deputies. The amendment to the vote of the CFP does not alter the outcome of the vote. The diploma was approved and continues to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u224	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u225	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u226	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u227	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u228	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u229	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u230	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present a statement of vote not only on this last vote but on all the votes relating to the abolition of tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u231	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1804 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP )...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u232	Mr President, I believe that, in due course, a request for this draft resolution will be sent, without a vote, to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u233	We shall then vote on the request, which had not reached hand, submitted by the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge of the Health Commission, without voting for a period of 45 days of draft resolution No 1804 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability, for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person, accepted in all public services, and apply the National Functional Table for a fair allocation of the tax and social benefits to which the person with disabilities, chronic illness or disability may be entitled. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1946 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates on January 31 as National Sergeant Day. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u234	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u235	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u236	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 149 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the application of the tax enforcement procedure to the compulsory collection of costs, fines, fines and other amounts charged in court proceedings. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in management and public administration bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u238	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u239	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u240	Mr President, with regard to this Bill No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ), in fact, what is written in the script is the overall final vote ; however, presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group, there is a lawyer in the specialty of a standard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u241	The rule relates to another bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u242	Mr President, with regard to the Proposal for a Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ), there is a single standard that has to be voted on in the specialty for then if you can make the final overall vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u243	There is a request from the PSD Parliamentary Group to be voted on in plenary Article 4 ( 3 ( a ). o Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). What the Rules of Procedure say is that counsel by the plenary must be deliberate by the plenary itself, it is not enough for a parliamentary group to ask for. We shall therefore vote on the request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 4 ( a ) ( 3 ). o Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in management and public administration bodies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the vote on Article 4 ( 4 ( a ). o Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 2 Members of the CDS-PP (Assumption Cristas and Isabel Galriza Neto), votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PCP and the Greens.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 116 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in management and public administration bodies. [[Subject to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 2 Members of the CDS-PP (Assumption Cristas and Isabel Galriza Neto), votes against 10 Members of the CDS-PP (António Carlos Monteiro, Cecília Meireles, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Pedro Gonçalves Pereira, João Pinho de Almeida, Patrícia Fonseca, Telmo Correia and Vânia Dias da Silva) and abstentions of the PCP, of the PSD (Miguel Morgado) and of 4 Members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, João Rebelo, Nuno Magalhães and Teresa Caeiro).]] [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u244	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u245	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u246	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u247	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u248	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u249	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u250	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present, on my behalf, a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u252	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u253	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u254	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present, on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Angela Guerra, a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u255	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Cristas told the Bureau that she would make an oral vote at the end of the debate on the following vote. [[Pause.]] As indicated in the script, the vote on the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 117 / XIII / 3. it would have to be done by means of the electronic vote and by a majority of two-thirds of the Members present. However, 1. the Commission, which had conveyed this information, now recognizes that this type of vote is not necessary and therefore we can normally proceed to its vote in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u256	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u257	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u258	Mr President, it is not necessary to proceed in plenary to vote on the speciality, since it has been done in the Commission's office. If there are no lawyers, we could move on to the global final vote, but by means of the electronic vote, with an absolute majority being required.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u259	Therefore, it is not even necessary to vote for the plenary of the indexary votes which took place in the Commission. I call on the services to prepare the electronic voting system so that we can carry out the next vote, which requires an absolute majority of Members to be effective in their duties. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who must vote electronically, using the green button to vote in favour, the red button to vote against and the white button to abstain, while standing up to express their vote. [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 117 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the law of parity in the organs of political power. [[After the vote, the votes of the absolute majority of the members in office effectiveness were recorded 184 votes in favour (83 of PS, 79 of PS, 18 of BE, 1 of PAN, 1 of non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 2 of CDS-PP), 24 votes against (10 of CDS-PP and 14 of the PCP) and 8 abstentions (2 of Os Verdes, 2 of PSD and 4 of CDS-PP).]] [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u260	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u261	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u262	Mr President, it is to inform me that I intend to present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u263	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u264	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote at the end of the sitting on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas had already signaled the same intention to the Bureau. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u266	Mr President, it is to announce that I will give a statement of vote on this last vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u267	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is not over, we are still voting, so I ask you not to stand up. Mrs Eurídice Pereira asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u268	Mr President, it is to say that I voted in favour, even though my vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u269	You are now registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u270	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u271	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u272	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u273	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft Law No 855 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — The fifth amendment is made to the Framework Law on Environmental Controls to establish the principle of no prior notice of inspection and monitoring actions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 713 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the transparency of remuneration with a view to eliminating wage inequalities between men and women and 1177 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value of work. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series Nos 20-24, concerning plenary meetings of 22, 26, 27, 28 and 29 November 2018, and paragraphs 25 to 33, concerning plenary meetings of 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 19, 20 and 21 December 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall therefore proceed to a period of oral explanations of vote, some of which have already been announced. To give your statement of vote, you have the floor of Mrs Assunción Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u274	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As you know, I am a strong advocate of quotas, but I hope that we do not need them in the future and that we arrive at the time when they are not necessary to ensure that women and men can reach all places according to their merit and their work. That is not yet the portrait of our country and therefore I have remained faithful to the principle I stand for. However, I wanted to record the deep unpleasantness in relation to the way this process was conducted. Many Members and many Members of my bench would have even wished to be able to change their sense of vote, but that did not happen for a number of reasons. Firstly, we still have serious doubts as to whether some of the standards of the text which has been adopted are in accordance with the Constitution, particularly with regard to the issue of sanctions, only to mention one. In addition, adopting relevant amendments to electoral laws in the year of the elections itself is contrary to all the principles of political and democratic wisdom,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u275	So why did you vote in favour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u276	... in particular to the international recommendations of the Venice Group and the Council of Europe, of which Portugal is part.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u277	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u278	Therefore, this approval violates the international recommendations that aim not to change the electoral law in the year of the elections itself in which this law is going to be enforced.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u280	I say this with all the will to lead a party that has the most parity parliamentary group in this House,... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u281	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u282	... considering that, in 18 Members, we have 10 men and 8 women, i.e., we have 44 % women,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u283	But they have little arithmetic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u284	... and that it has adopted internally rules to seek as much balance as possible in the establishment of lists for the forthcoming legislative elections. Therefore, I regret that it was not possible to arrive further in a wider consensus and regret that there is this atrocity to the best international recommendations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u285	We're in a democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u286	... joining the central block, perhaps with other interests that have nothing to do with strengthening the representation of women. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u287	Madam Member, do I really need to ask you a question: has your statement of vote been made on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group or on an individual basis?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u288	On behalf of the individual, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u289	It was therefore a statement of vote on behalf of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u290	If it were, it couldn't have been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u291	Then it couldn't have been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u292	In order to make a statement of vote, Mrs Rita Rato wrote. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP has no objection to the form of the equality law imposed on electoral laws such as those put by the CDS. The CFP's objection is to its content, because we do not follow the idea that what determines the political choice of each election is its sex and not its ideological choice by the way the world and society sees. Furthermore, Mr President, we wanted to record that, despite the previous legislation having had a very significant presence of women here in Parliament, it was the Government of this legislature that paid more attention to women's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u294	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u295	Many women sitting here voted in favour of increasing working hours in the Public Administration, where most workers are women! Specifically, the Member of the Christian Assumption was Minister of one Government, in which another woman was Minister of Finance, who imposed wage cuts on employees of the Public Administration, who are the majority of workers in the Public Administration,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and who cut pensions for pensioners in this country, who are the majority of pensioners in this country. So, Mr President, we wanted to say that the law of parity lies in an ambush, which is to be the sex of each of the electors who determines the fairness of the proposals; but no, what determines it is the political choice of each one, is the commitments to progress, to economic and social development. Making the sex of the person correspond to the highest equality in participation or political choice is an ambush, and the PCP will not fail to register. We are here, internally, in our party, as in society, to fight every day for the strengthening of women's participation, first of all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by reducing working hours, which allows women to participate in the country's life. The reduction of working hours and the revocation of hourly banks allow for better conditions of participation in the country's life and, therefore, we will be here to hold this debate every day, not only as if it were a flower in a hat, but also in what is structural in a democratic society: women's rights and citizenship rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u296	For a statement of vote, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u297	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The participation of women and men in equality is a key factor for the development of any society, but more than that, it is a matter of human rights. Combating the exclusion of women in all aspects of public and private life and, specifically, in the decision-making and leadership bodies of the State is therefore a fundamental requirement for social transformation and the necessary path for a healthy, just and equal society. The reality is to show us, however, that the participation of women, especially in leadership and political decision-making, remains a minority: in more than four decades of democracy, we had 484 ministers of men and only 34 ministers of women; today, in this House, in 230 seats, we have 150 men and 80 women; in local power, disproportionateness is even more flagrant. We do not deceive ourselves: we know that if today 80 women are sitting in this House, I owe it to the law of parity of 2006, or to the deceit, as they have already called it; nevertheless, 13 years later, we continue to meet only the legally demanding minimum. These initiatives that we have adopted today are therefore another necessary step towards equality between men and women. The Left Block considers that an opportunity has been lost to go even further and to ensure effective parity representation. We know that 40% reflect European recommendations, but we also know that they do not reflect reality. In society, half are men and half are women, and it only makes sense that it is also in the political decision-making bodies. However, we do not fail to welcome this further progress in deepening equality and democracy in Portugal and we hope that, from one year to another, the women sitting here do not correspond to only 40% of seats — that is, not only 92 women, the minimum of the minimum — but many more.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u298	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u299	If that happens, and when that happens, then we will know that we are on the right path. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u300	For a statement of vote, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u301	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, so that you do not think this is just a cause for women, I think it would be important for a man to come to say what his parliamentary group, in this case the PSD Parliamentary Group, thinks about this. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD strongly defends the principle of increasing women's participation in public life and political life. It is obvious that this logic does not invalidate another logic, which is that of merit. So what we understand, after the proposal that was put before us by the government, is that we should be the moderate party, of wisdom, convincing the Socialist Party, as we are convinced, to drop some norms that seemed radical to us and that did not meet people's feelings, nor the recommendations of Europe. So we understand that today, with the approval of this diploma, this good sense, this moderation, that balance has triumphed. And the balance comes from the benches of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Party, but also from some Members of the CDS-PP, which was, in fact, decisive in approving the previous law, the one we recently voted, of parity in the Public Administration. So what is at stake here is a principle, a philosophy, a logic that has nothing to do with parties, not much about ideologies, but about the positioning that each one of us has in relation to these matters. Mr President, to conclude, I would also like to say that these laws, being good, have no time to enter into force. Good laws must apply immediately, bad laws must never enter into force. And we understand that there has been a great achievement for the country and for the participation of both genders, women and men, in political life and in public life with the approval of the diploma we have voted here today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u302	For a statement of vote, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are writing another important page in the history of equality. Today, in this Parliament, and in this House, we move again on the path of equality and make a very important step forward on two fronts: in the area of public administration, direct and indirect, where we can now have a more balanced representation between men and women and also in local administration, in public institutions and foundations and in public higher education. It is a significant step forward, because, as we know, there was a sub-representation and a difficulty of women in the Public Administration to go to top positions, although they are majority and although they have skills and qualifications for it. The PSD Parliamentary Group also welcomes the fact that it is possible to represent 50 % women, 50 % men in the collective bodies in the Public Administration, since the first candidates cannot be of the same sex. This is an advance we welcome, since we have been accompanied by party forces in this Parliament, regretting the withdrawal of the Democratic Social Party from this parity of 50 % women, 50 % men in the Public Administration. In the field of political participation, we achieved an important advance of 33, 6 % to 40 %, going against the Council of Europe recommendation and we also made progress towards sanctions being, in fact, the rejection of the whole list and not a monetary penalty that has not made any way. at the same time, we have also achieved that the scope of the Parity Law is now extended to the lists of vowels to the juntas de frégesia and to the tables of the deliberative organs. We would like to have gone further, but the required majority and the consensus did not allow the lists for legislative bodies and subsequent elections to be made up of 50 % of women and 50 % of men. This is a path that we will continue to pursue, since in the next legislature we will continue to move with 50%-50% towards these polling stations. Mr President, I would also like to say that it is a matter of fundamental justice for women to participate in equality, in political life, alongside men. It's a constitutional imperative! This is a debate that takes place in democracy, and democracy today is more of a quality because it will have men and women to participate in equality and always in freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-08.u304	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 13 February, for 15 hours, and on its agenda there is a PS marking on the theme « Combating poverty and inequality - A social priority ». I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 26 minutes.]]
