ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Allow me a very brief word to say that I am sitting in this chair with only one certainty and that only certainty is that I will do my best to ensure with exemption and rigour that everything continues to be discussed in this House and that everything continues to be discussed with all freedom. I would ask the authorities, please, to open the galleries. I give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau to read the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u2	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Bureau entered the following draft resolutions: No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government account for the evaluation obtained by the former military in the years in which they performed functions in the Armed Forces, after entering the Public Administration, for the purposes of the Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System ( SIADAP ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; point 38 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Adopts the recommendations of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, promoting the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 39 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for strengthening the protection of workers in the disease when it involves particularly serious economic circumstances, which falls to 10. the Commission ; paragraph 40 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthening care in pregnancy and childbirth, which falls to 9. the Commission, and paragraph 52 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the establishment of a national control plan for the invasive water species, which falls to 11. the Commission. Draft Rules of Procedure No 3 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 1. the Commission. The following bills have also been entered into the Bureau: No 58 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 61 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers, ensuring the accounting of all points obtained, which goes down to 8. the Commission ; No 63 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the disease allowance for tuberculosis, oncological disease and chronic disease ( Sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004 ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation ( Sixteenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 65 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms ( Tenth sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 66 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Free of charge from the Multi-purpose Incapacity Medical Test, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 67 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Regulates access to assisted drug death, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 68 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Returns amounts and calculation rules on termination of the contract of employment and dismissal, which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 69 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends lease contracts for 10 years, ensuring greater stability to tenants, which falls to 6. the Commission ; paragraph 70 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for public control of TTCs, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and No 72 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines the non-repercussion on users of municipal transit and subsoil rights rates which fall to 6. the Commission. Mr President, in terms of file, that is all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. We will start the discussion of six petitions, stressing that the petition is one of the most interesting parliamentary instruments we have and to which we must give due importance, since it is the one in which the Portuguese people tell us what we are discussing in this House. Let us then begin with the discussion of Petition No 507 / XIII / 3. a (Laura Ramos et al.) — by the end of obstetric violence in the birth blocks of Portuguese hospitals. I give the floor to Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u4	Mr President, if I may, since there are two draft resolutions accompanying this petition, I believe that the parliamentary groups that presented them have priority in their presentation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u5	All right, Mr. Deputies. We then have to follow Petition No 507 / XIII / 3. a (Laura Ramos et al.) — by the end of obstetric violence in the birth blocks of Portuguese hospitals, the Resolution Projects 31 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth and 40 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening care in pregnancy and childbirth. Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the more than 5000 petitioners who have signed Petition No 507 / XIII / 3. because they have brought this important issue to debate. The NAP has often brought this subject to discussion. During the past legislation, we presented several initiatives aimed at strengthening women's rights in pregnancy and childbirth, following those that are the best recommendations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ). We highlight the approval of Law No 110 / 2019, which guarantees pregnant or married women the right to a birth plan. This law clearly counted on the contribution of the NAP. We want to say that we follow the claims of the people who brought this petition to the Assembly of the Republic. A greater and better attention to the quality of care for women during pregnancy and childbirth is essential for NAP, ensuring full respect for women and full maternity experience. In 2015, the Portuguese Women's Rights Association in Pregnancy and Parto published the results of an online survey involving 4000 women on their birth experiences and which is quite elucidative of the way that is still going on. In fact, more than 40 % of the women surveyed have shown situations of abuse, disrespect or use of unauthorized practices. We cannot ignore, for example, that Portugal has an episiotomy rate — a medical intervention which involves an incision to expand the delivery channel — of 73 %, the second country of Europe with the highest rate, far and far, of the recommendations of the World Health Organization that recommend that the rate of this intervention not exceed 10 %. Recently, the Council of Europe has adopted a resolution, with recommendations we accept on this project, for the promotion of human care, respect and dignity. Therefore, we argue that this House can recommend to the Government that it welcomes the good practices identified by the World Health Organization, which aim to promote education and awareness-raising strategies on all types of gender discrimination and violence, in which obstetric violence is inserted, as well as the implementation of legal mechanisms to combat these practices. We also see as essential the strengthening of the training of health professionals that addresses, inter alia, gender equality issues, the concept of informed consent and the promotion of the most humanized approach possible in the care provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u7	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u8	Yes, Mr. President. I'll finish. Finally, we believe that a study should be conducted on situations of abuse, disrespect and the use of practices not consented during pregnancy and delivery in health institutions and that a working group should be established that integrates the associations of health professionals and civil society and makes recommendations for the promotion of humanized delivery and delivery process. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u10	of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ENP welcomes the subscribers of the petition today under discussion, which is entitled « by the end of obstetric violence in the birth blocks of Portuguese hospitals». The birth of a child is an undeniable moment in the lives of mothers and parents, but it is particularly overcome in the lives of any woman. It is a moment of intense emotions and unique experiences. We know of the many advances that have been achieved in this area of medicine in recent years in our country, translated into one of the lowest neonatal mortality rates in the world, the result, to a large extent, of the effort, dedication, quality and professionalism of workers in the sector. However, we take good note of the claim of the petition and the ENP intends to contribute to ensuring always better conditions of care for pregnancy, childbirth and the postpartum period and we are well aware of measures that can effectively contribute to ensuring these improvements. in this sense, The Greens present today a draft resolution, which recommends to the Government to be drawn up within three months, by the Directorate-General of Health, a phased plan to overcome the serious deficiencies of personnel and technical means in the National Health Service, in the speciality of obstetrics, which should be delivered to the Assembly of the Republic. The Directorate-General should ensure that the questionnaire for the satisfaction of maternal and obstetric health services is made available to all pregnant women, without exception, and should promote clarification campaigns on prenatal and postpartum follow-up, with clear and simplified information, to ensure that confidence in health professionals and obstetric health services is guaranteed. It is also important to promote in health centres and hospitals, throughout the country, forms of support for women who clearly show that they have undergone a non-positive relational experience in obstetric health services, if this is their will, and finally that the acceptance and valorization of delivery plans by hospital institutions become practice and aim at action in a more human care logic focused on women and their families. For these practices to be a reality it is necessary that the investment in the SNS (National Health Service) regarding the acquisition or modernization of materials, the hiring of health professionals or the works that are so necessary in some hospitals. There is an urgent need to strengthen and improve the answers needed. We know that all health areas are affected by underfunding, including obstetrics, one of the most sensitive for both pregnant women and the professionals who accompany them in the pregnancy process until delivery. We also know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even to be born and born in conditions it is necessary to step up the logics of Brussels to continue to cut into public services! [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Greens, Member of the Green Party. Now, yes, for an intervention, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you allow me, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by congratulating the more than 5000 petitioners and petitioners who ask this House to discuss measures to ensure that the woman and her will are respected at the time of delivery; so that, for example, there is no instrument without need; so that there are no cesarean women without justification and without the permission of the woman; so that the woman is involved in all decisions and is not considered a mere passive object during childbirth. The Left Block obviously wants a more humanized National Health Service and therefore we cannot ignore the fact that Portugal has a high rate of cesareans — which is not recommended anywhere in the world and is not recommended by WHO — to have a high instrumentation, to often have a practice of women's lack of information and consent. This, indeed, cannot happen. This petition we have discussed today has at least two merits on the ground and which have been implemented. The first is the merit of alerting this reality and raising the debate on this reality; the second is the fact that, even before the petition is discussed, it has already produced effects, because, in the past legislature, a law has already been passed which strengthens the law of women in pregnancy and childbirth. This law, which has since first deserved the support and the favourable vote of the Left Block at all times of voting, strengthens the right of women to follow up at all times, including hospitalization; strengthens the contact of the health institution one week after delivery and, therefore, the monitoring of women by health institutions; strengthens the right of preparation for delivery; creates a questionnaire of satisfaction on maternal and obstetric health services; strengthens the right to information and informed consent of women. More: it creates something very important, also claimed by this petition and its petitioners, which is the birth plan, where the will is expressed on how childbirth should take place and where it is said that this will should be respected during the moment of birth. There have been very important steps, and now it is necessary to ensure that they are met. The Directorate-General of Health, the regulatory entity, the administrative bodies of the health institutions now have the responsibility to put the law into practice. The commitment of the Left Block is this and it is very concrete: the Block will do everything to monitor the application and implementation of this law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u14	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u15	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the Block will do everything to implement this law and will do everything—it will be here for that—to deepen these rights, whenever necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Bento, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u17	Mr President, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to congratulate Mr Vice-President and Mr Fernando Negrão on being this the first time he presides over plenary work in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating all the petitioners present in the gallery and, through them, the more than 5,000 citizens who signed this petition for the end of obstetric violence in the birth blocks of Portuguese hospitals. This petition has an important theme, present and prevailing worldwide, emphasizing the need to be discussed and implemented laws that protect women in the right to dignified and respectful care during pregnancy and childbirth. The World Health Organization, in 2014, published a statement on prevention and elimination of abuses in health institutions and, in this document, admitted the existence of physical violence, deep humiliation and verbal abuse, coercive or unconsensible medical procedures, lack of confidentiality, among others, constituting all this a violation of human rights. in this context, it is important to remember that in 2018 the World Health Organization issued new guidelines to establish global care standards for healthy pregnant women, also recommending the reduction of the number of unnecessary medical interventions. in domestic law, Law No 110 / 2019, published only two months ago, establishes the principles, rights and duties applicable in matters of protection in preconception, in the procreation of assisted medicine, in pregnancy, in childbirth, in birth and in puerperium. This law strengthens women's rights in pregnancy and childbirth, guaranteeing them the right to be treated with dignity and respect and to be free of any form of violence. in this sense, there are among us standards of care that should be monitored and met and that are discriminated against in this law, among which we can highlight the following: all unnecessary medical interventions should be reduced; all medical procedures should be explained and consented by the woman; women have decision-making autonomy on pain management and the positions to be adopted, provided that they do not compromise the health of the mother and the baby; in the case of cesarean procedure, they should be explicit both in the clinical process and in the pregnancy bulletin the reason why this procedure was necessary. Finally, I believe that this will also be an important fact, that the Directorate-General for Health should provide an electronic questionnaire of satisfaction and should make annual disclosure of the results accompanied by the following recommendations. These are aspects that, somehow, already contemplate...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u18	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u19	... the concerns of petitioners and go to meet the guidelines of the World Health Organization. Mr President, I am now referring to the fact that it is important to comply with this law, which ensures and consolidates quality care and ensures respect for sexual health, reproductive health and women's rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u20	Mrs Cláudia Bento, thank you very much for the sympathy of your reference. I give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I began by greeting the petitioners in the galleries, as well as all the petitioners and all the petitioners who signed this petition for the end of obstetric violence in the delivery blocks of the Portuguese hospitals. This petition was submitted to Parliament in May 2018. As already mentioned here in July 2019, a law was adopted in this Chamber unanimously, which answers many of the questions that the petition raises, in particular the questions of the need for birth plans, the questionnaire of satisfaction of women in the postpartum period, information at all times of the process and special attention to vulnerable audiences. This law was published in September 2019 and entered into force in October 2019. The resolutions of the NAP and of the Greens accompanying this petition are, in our view, hasty, because it is necessary to give time to the Ministry of Health and the Directorate-General for Health in order to implement the measures provided for in the law. We must have this sense of responsibility and allow legislation to make its way. If the legislation does not make its way there, yes, it makes sense to make recommendations to the Government. We don't think this is the time. I would also like to make a reference to the NAP resolution. I was confused — I have to say here — that the NAP, in all the resolution, makes no reference to the law passed in this House in July of this year. It confuses me because it was a very involved law by the NAP, with concrete projects presented, which, in fact, contributed positively to the law having the contours it had and was approved in this Chamber. I would like to conclude by saying the following: a meeting is taking place in Nairobi on the 25th anniversary of the Cairo Conference on Population and Development. With regard to this conference, there are statements by the United Nations Population Fund that say that Portugal is the sixth best country to be pregnant and to be born. This is positive, but it is also necessary, as we know, and as a result of what the petition refers to, that we work and do everything in order for women to have their rights guaranteed, at such an important moment as the moment when they have their babies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u22	For an intervention, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition, signed by 5654 petitioners, which we welcome, has entered the Assembly of the Republic in May 2018, as already mentioned. On this matter, it is important to start by saying what is factual and what should pride us all, moreover, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has already mentioned it: Portugal has one of the best indices in the world with regard to maternal and child health, resulting in large and continuous investments and improvement of prenatal health care during birth and puerpery. I believe, as I said, that it is a matter of pride for everyone. Of course, this is not an impediment to continuing this work, a work of improvement and humanization of care at this time, of clinical care, duly recognized, accredited and technically sustained, which is provided to women. As has already been said and not to repeat too much, in the previous legislation, it was first approved in a working group and then in the plenary, unanimously, Law No 110 / 2019 of 9 September 2019 laying down the principles, rights and duties applicable in matters of protection in the area of preconception, in the production of assisted medicinal products, in pregnancy, in childbirth, in birth and in puerperium, by making the second amendment to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March. This law came into force about a month ago and, therefore, it has not yet had time to make its way. In any case, this law — it is already a merit of this petition — incorporates many of the petitioners' requests, going to their meeting, so it seems to me that there is already a cause for this measure. It seems to us, too, in the CDS, that it is not a good legislative practice to make draft resolutions to enforce a law that has not even had time to be lived and applied. in this sense, without prejudice to our understanding that there is a way to be done, without prejudice to the fact that we have voted in favour of this law, we believe that it is not yet time to present new draft resolutions, on a law that has to be applied, and that, if it is not in its proper terms, it will deserve proper supervision in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u24	Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to congratulate all the subscribers of the petition we have discussed on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party. In fact, the birth of a child, all the planning made around that child, anxiety, but also the desire to have a child is a unique moment for women, a unique moment for parents. We believe that conditions should be created for public services to be able to respond, from a health point of view, with all quality, but that they can be humanized public services, public services that respect women's rights, which respect the right of pregnant women at the time of delivery. The consecration of the constitutional right to health and the creation of the National Health Service allowed that, in our country, if there had been a very positive and very significant evolution in relation to maternal and child health. in a short period of time, we have evolved quantitatively and qualitatively in terms of the great reduction not only of infant mortality, today reaching the lowest levels at the level of Europe, but also of maternal mortality. These were elements of great progress in the provision of care and were great advances, too, with regard to sexual and reproductive rights. We believe that it is necessary, however, to resolve a set of constraints and constraints that persist in public health services and obstetric services of several hospitals: inadequate facilities, obsolete equipment, lack of health professionals. These are generators of limitations, often ending up because they do not give the most suitable response for women, for pregnant women and at the time of birth. That is why we also say today that we need to invest. It is necessary to invest in the National Health Service, to invest in the hiring of professionals in need and to ensure that public health services and, in particular, obstetric services are endowed with human resources, but also with technical means, so that they can provide quality health care to all women. We must also move towards respect for women's rights, respect for and ensure sexual and reproductive health throughout life and in all its dimensions. But we also wanted to leave this point, which we consider fundamental: we are talking about the relationship between human beings. We are talking about the relationship of women and their families, at an absolutely crucial moment in women's personal and family life, and of course we consider it essential to invest and create conditions for the humanization of obstetric services. It must move forward in exactly that direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u26	We move on to point 2 of the agenda, with the discussion of Petition No 558 / XIII / 4. a (Mónica Alexandra da Cunha dos Santos et al.) — They call for legislative amendments, particularly regarding the impartiality and independence of judicial judges, following recent events in Portuguese football club. Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u27	Mr President, I welcome you in a special way at this session. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The football that is here today because of this petition is the worst football ever. It is the football of complicity webs between the SADs, economic powers and institutional powers. It is football associated with extreme-right hordes and commentators with them articulated. It's football, not rivalry, but war and rot. To this football, I counter the end of the 1969 Cup and the huge safan that gave to fascism in Portugal. I counterpose the football of Korean democracy and its face to the military dictatorship in Brazil. I counterpose the football of Eusebius and 5 - 3 to Korea. I counter above all the football that, here and everywhere, redeems lives and projects to the social degree. Yes, we must ensure, as this petition requires, that the political and judicial powers are absolutely exempt from football. That was the case, in fact, that this Assembly of the Republic did in the recent review of the Statutes of the Judicial Magistrates and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Left Block completely repudiates any temptation to drag the Assembly of the Republic into the war football wars and reaffirms our commitment to work, legislatively and politically, against the increasingly abject and increasingly dangerous association, between some football, organized crime and extreme right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u28	Mr. Manuel Pureza, thank you very much for the greeting. I now give the floor to Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u29	Mr President, I would also like to congratulate you on your first conduct of the work. I also congratulate the subscribers of this petition, who wish to make legislative amendments, in particular on the impartiality and independence of judicial judges, following recent events in a football club, referring to the Sporting Club of Portugal. We have to put this petition in time. She was subscribed to a time of great conflict, which, in fact, led to the removal of a club president. however, that is not what this House should talk about, because politics and football should not mix with either left or right or center. Soccer is football, politics is political, and so on. when they present this petition, they refer to the petitioners—and that is what I want to talk about — who are concerned about the lack of independence of the judges, so they ask to proceed: to amend Article 120. the Civil Procedure Code, in order to include in it the violation of the duty of discretion ; to the statutory prohibition of judges integrate bodies of managers of professional sports clubs ; to the reformulation of the crime against sports truth, to include, in their type, the so-called fraudulent taking of social bodies of any club and there also including the intrusive practice of collecting information, with violation of the secret of justice or only with violation of the protection of personal data, in a manner suitable to the prospect of any utility or advantages in the relationship of sport competition. It is worth noting today that about a year ago of the delivery of this petition, which has been given body to many of these requests, through the review of the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates. however, it was not given body to all requests, because, as the petitioners should know, the Constitutional Court has already pronounced itself on this matter and created some obstacles to these total prohibitions being incorporated in this regard by saying in Judgment No 457 / 93, which declared unconstitutional the proposal which provided that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy could prohibit the exercise of activities foreign to the function, not paid, when, by its nature, they were liable to affect the independence or dignity of the judicial function. So this is, of course, an embarrassment. It is urgent — and that, yes, it is important — that the government act in sports, so that football is more and more a family football and family football, not a case football, not a news-opening football, not a media-focused football, because of the worst sport. It is urgent for the government to act so that sport is sport and that we can all, while Portuguese, regardless of our club sympathies, enjoy it. It is important that sport—and football—is always a joy, as it was, for example, at the end of the Euro 2016, in which we were champions. Yeah, it's football and sport, not the thing that brings us here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u30	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Francisco Oliveira, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u31	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, it is with enormous satisfaction and sense of responsibility that I address for the first time to this respectable Assembly, thus starting my interventions in the House of Democracy. The theme of this petition affects the impartiality and independence of the judicial magistrates, following various events in Portuguese football club. I greet, from now on, all petitioners, about 4450. Thus, and translating into football language, it is up to us to step out. It is essential to stress that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group attaches great importance to the subject of the independence of judges. The guarantee of the independence of the courts is constitutionally enshrined in Article 203. that of the Basic Law, and reflects a subjective right of the judicial judge to independence, also containing the right of the citizen to claim independent judicial acts. In turn, Article 216(5). the Constitution determines the possibility of the legislator to establish other incompatibilities with the exercise of the role of judge, in addition to those provided for in this legislation of the Basic Law. Under this principle of impartiality, provided for in Article 266. , paragraph 2, of the Constitution and, among others, Articles 6. o-C, 7. it's 8. the -A of the Statute of the Judiciary Judges — which, respectively, enshrine the duty of impartiality, impediments and incompatibilities extended by Law No 67 / 2019 of 27 August 2019 — are only deserving of protection, behaviors that may, even in abstract, generate suspicion of affecting or achieving the impartiality and objectivity of a judge. The judge should therefore be cautious about the possibility of a conflict of interests in such a way that his decision is not considered to violate his personal and functional duties. Having a relationship of the magistrate with specific situations, of the court or persons in their participants, which may endanger their impartiality, the existence of an impediment must be considered. Different from the question of impartiality is the creation of true incompatibilities. In this respect, the new draft of the Statute of the Judicial Judges, which comes into force on 1 January 2020, closes the news, thus solving the concerns expressed in this petition. We can quote Article 8 here. the -A, paragraph 5 of that Statute, which states: « It still has no authorization from the Superior Council of the Magistracy, which is granted only if the activity is not paid and does not involve injury to the service or to the independence, dignity and prestige of the judicial function(...) the exercise of non-professional functions in any statutory bodies of entities involved in professional sporting competitions, including their shareholders companies». The same applies to the participation of judges in functions in the social bodies of sports federations. If there is a solution in the new Statute that confers on the Supreme Council of the Magistrate competence to assess these hypotheses, this body should be given the opportunity to properly implement this new legal solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u32	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u33	Mr. President, I'll be done. The application for amendment of the grounds of suspicion of the judge, as set out in Article 120. the Civil Procedure Code, in order to cover the violation of the duty of discretion, seems unnecessary. Article 120. it has already established the possibility of the parties, on obvious grounds of suspicion of the judge, to resort to this impartiality, and the list presented there is merely exemplifying. We therefore believe that the legislation in force and the novelties resulting from the Statute of the Judiciary Judges will answer the questions raised in this petition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u34	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u35	Mr President, my greetings to you, Mr Ex.a, at this time that you take the Chair for the first time. We wanted to say that we understand as a matter of principle what is raised by the petitioners, that is, in fact, the judicial magistrates should not involve themselves in — let us say the words — wars raised by their membership to social bodies of sports clubs. The Assembly of the Republic must not, from our point of view, be involved in these same wars and therefore should not take positions which can be understood as taking sides on any side of any conflict that may arise in any club or sports society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u37	Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic, too here, must maintain, like the magistrates, its exemption from these proceedings. It should also be said that the legislator is not alien to this issue and, when the recent review of the Statute of Judicial Judges, this question was effectively equated. And it was, even, in the light of a concrete proposal made by the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges itself, to be very clear about limiting the possibility of judges being able to be members of social bodies of clubs that practice professional sports competitions, including their shareholders companies. That was very clear, and I'm glad it did! Indeed, this question has been proposed, it has been raised, precisely for reasons which are on the basis of the petition we are considering today. In other words, there is a general feeling that the role of the judiciary cannot be embellished in its exemption by the involvement of judges in unbuilding conflicts, involving the sport that is practiced at a professional level. We therefore consider that concern is fair, but it is important to say that the Assembly of the Republic, particularly when, in the last legislature, the problem of the Statute of the Magistrates, whether judicial magistrates, or judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office — since a similar provision has also been approved for them — has not passed along with this problem, has equationd it and has found a legislative solution that seems appropriate to us. So, what we have to say is that, regardless of any position regarding any conflict in any sports club, this problem of guaranteeing the exemption of judicial judges, with regard to this type of conflict, was effectively prevented by the legislator. Therefore, we believe that the claim expressed by the petitioners was welcomed in the final part of the previous legislation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u38	Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for the greeting. Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u39	Mr President, I would also like to begin by saying a special greeting to you. You have already been my Chairman in the BES Committee of Inquiry and, with great joy, I now see you in these functions. I would also like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Members and, with regard to this petition, begin by saying, like many of the Members. Members had the opportunity to point out, that it had been raised by a specific case and expressed concern about the impartiality of judges, particularly judges. As has been said here, it is important that with regard to various things, but above all, and also, with regard to football, not only the judges are impartial, but also the Assembly of the Republic and politicians generally remain in their impartial political activity. Therefore, in my speech, I would like to comment on what is requested in the petition and not precisely on the specific case to which it originated and on which I think we should not and must not pronounce ourselves. What this petition is asking for, concerns — and that, yes, is the subject on which the Assembly of the Republic has to legislate and which it has to worry about — has to do with the impartiality of justice and justice. It therefore proposes an amendment to an article so as to include the violation of the duty of discretion between the grounds of the judge's suspension, the statutory prohibition of judges to integrate professional sports club management bodies and the reformulation of the crime against sports truth. As has already been said here, there has already been a change to the status of judges, judges and magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and several of these concerns have already been addressed. Therefore, the object of the petition is, in this matter, fulfilled. in addition to and with regard to the review of some crimes and the typification of a particular crime, the position of the CDS in this matter is already known. We are in favour of the establishment of a working group or a committee for the revision of the entire Criminal Code and the entire Code of Criminal Procedure, because it seems to us that these two codes have often been subject to amendments, small amendments and it is necessary, systematically, to look at the whole system, to make the necessary changes, but also to ensure that everything is consistent, both in the typification of crimes and in their criminal frameworks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, for your greeting. At the end of this item on the agenda, we will now proceed to the discussion of Petition No 557 / XIII / 4. a (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) — by the right to defrosting higher education teaching careers, together with, in general, Lein. 38 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( ENP) — Materializes the right to a mandatory change of pay position to public higher education teachers, 56 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Clarify the system of wage progression of higher education teachers, 58 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers and 61 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers, ensuring the accounting of all points obtained. To present the bill of The Greens, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin to warmly welcome FENPROF for the initiative to promote the petition that demands the right to defreeze higher education careers, a matter of great importance and which unfortunately remains current, in a framework where the wage progression of higher education teachers continues to freeze to the vast majority since 2005. The Greens have guided their action by the attention they have given to the specific problems with which education, their professionals and teachers in particular confront, namely the freezing of careers, the time of service accomplished but not counted, the wear of the profession and ageing, the precariousness of work, the professional instability and the overload at work, the physical and mental exhaustion of so many teachers, and also for the question of the necessary democracy in the management of schools and the threat that constitutes the municipalization of education. in the previous legislation, which was marked by the return of income to workers in general and by various defrostrations of careers, The Greens contributed to the inclusion in the State Budget Act the effectiveness of the career progressions of employees of the Public Administration. Despite this, the Greens remember that by pushing responsibilities between entities or by budgetary options, which call into question the rights of workers, always losing them, this situation led to the fact that in a universe of about 14 000 university and technical career teachers have only progressed about 28, 46 % of teachers in 2018. On the basis of the principle that it is essential and unwarranted to do justice to these workers, the Greens have delivered in the previous Parliament a bill proposing the materialization of the right to a mandatory change in the position of remuneration to teachers who, following the thawing referred to in Article 18. the Law No 114 / 2017, of 29 December, to which it is entitled. We believe that these teachers, like other workers, must be applied the fairer regime, and the fairer can only be the one who considers all workers more favourably, avoiding inequalities. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u42	To submit Bill No. 56 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the more than 4000 people who have signed this call for initiative from FenPROF and we thank you for bringing this subject to debate. in fact, the NAP has already brought this issue to discussion in the past legislature, through the Bill No. 1171 / XIII, going to meet the claims of the petitioners, bill that was, however, rejected. But the problem remains and, therefore, we bring back to the discussion a bill that aims to clarify the regime of wage progression of higher education teachers. In fact, most of the leaders of higher education institutions have expressed their doubts about the remuneration progression criteria applicable to teachers of their institutions. This is because the General Law on Public Works states that there is a mandatory change to the pay position immediately following that in which the worker is in when he has accumulated ten points in performance assessments, but the statutes of the university teaching career and of the teaching staff of political higher education establish that this change is mandatory only when a teacher has obtained, for a period of six consecutive years, the mention of "excellent". There are doubts whether these rules apply together or not, the vast majority of institutions have changed their pay positions only in the cases provided for in the statutes. This interpretation may have as a consequence, for example, that a teacher can spend 42 years of career without ever making any progress, if he has, for example, 36 years of « excellent» classification which were interrupted for six years of « very good», which, being a good classification, ruined his chances of progression. We cannot agree with this interpretation. For the NAP, the mandatory change in the remuneration position occurs whenever the teacher has obtained ten points in the performance assessment process during the period that remained in the same pay index or when he obtains the mention of "excellent" for a period of six consecutive years, regardless of the category or rate of pay. The General Law on Public Works on this matter determines that it will not only apply to higher education institutions if there is a special law otherwise, which in this case does not occur. We also understand that the provisions on remuneration progression provided for in the statutes should be interpreted as awarding the most qualified teachers and not penalizing the generality of teachers or even not recognizing them the right to progress when they achieve ten points in successive evaluations, as is the case with other public workers. The restrictive and penalizing interpretation of the legislation, carried out by higher education institutions, promotes negative discrimination against all other public officials and has resulted in unequal treatment situations among teachers themselves. Thus, we see the approval of the NAP project, which we are discussing today, as essential to end this injustice and to dignify the teaching career. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u44	To submit Bill No. 58 / XIV / 1. a, you have the floor Mr. Luís Monteiro. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the State budget for 2018 a set of measures was approved which guarantee the so-called « defreezing of public service careers ». these measures were also incorporated public, university and technical higher education. It was thus guaranteed, at the state budget for 2018, the fair and universal remuneration progression for all higher education teachers who complied with the Law of Labour in Public Functions and what it rightly determines on the issue of career progression and defrosting. this same year, around May / June 2018, we also had the opportunity to call Mr.Minister of Higher Education and Technology to come to the Education Commission in order to say what was beginning to be a bad and wrong application of the State budget law. We know that the statutes and regulations change from institution to institution, but what does not change is that each public higher education teacher is hired under the Public Service Labour Act and from the moment it is under the same law it is the obligation of the State, the Government and each higher education institution to ensure the scrupulously compliance with the same law. What is happening today in the overwhelming majority of higher education institutions is that internal progress is being promoted, in a discretionary way, that does not meet what has been approved in the budget of the State and that, in fact, they are deeply adulterating what should be equal opportunities, equal rights and equality in the treatment of what are, in many cases, 20 and 30 years of careers of teachers, who, in these circumstances, and in this abusive reading that the Government has done in relation to what has been approved and in relation to what must be the remuneration progressions, the overwhelming majority will not be entitled to them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have today is not only a misapplication of a government policy or a government error; what we are discussing today is whether or not we want a higher education that motivates its teachers and its professionals, because they guarantee the quality and excellence that we have in public higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u46	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u47	I'm done now, Mr. President. What we're discussing today is if we break up, once and for all, with the logic of dividing to reign. But in order to break this logic it is necessary for the government to have the courage to hear more of the Assembly of the Republic than the Council of Rectors and the political presidencies. This would be a giant step towards this legislature. I would like to congratulate FENPROF on the organisation, the promotion of the initiative and, of course, all the signatories. That is why we are here today to discuss this issue. Let us hope that the government will also hear what the signatories say. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u48	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to submit Bill No. 61 / XIV / 1. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome FENPROF for the dynamization of this petition, which brings to us today the issue of the right to defreeze the teaching careers of higher education, a petition which has collected more than 4000 signatures and which, in fact, brings here a situation of flagrant injustice and which the CFP has been reporting for a long time. Not only in this Parliament as in the past, since the first hour we have revealed concerns about the compliance of budgetary rules with this matter of defrosting career progressions, saying, including that it would be terrible to spot something positive like the recovery of rights and income, which is operated by the regulation, by a flagrant injustice arising from the material situation of this application in higher education institutions. Thus, we have been accompanying the demands of higher education teachers regarding respect for their rights, as regards the progress resulting from the application of Article 18. the State Budget Act for 2018. What we have always been saying was that the Socialist Party, which was in government, and the Government had all the powers, all the tools in hand to issue clear guidelines that would allow all higher education institutions to have a orientation, a thread that would lead to an application of the remuneration rule, in the right way, that would effectively respect the rights of workers. But for this, we also had to do something else that we did not forget: to ensure the necessary budget allocation that would meet the increase in charges for higher education institutions. The truth is that we have been confronting the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education quite often, in plenary and Commission, and this situation has never had a positive development. The CFP considers that there can be no different solutions for situations that are equal. There can be no harmful teachers in relation to other teachers, there can be no work that is equal and that is considered differently, the pretext of the autonomy of the institutions. Autonomy, yes, sir, but not as a shield that generates inequalities, and that must also be clear. We therefore advocate the application of the fairer regime, which considers all workers to be more favourable, avoiding inequalities, according to what is, in fact, in the State budget itself. Another problem that we have brought here with the presentation of our bill, and which has been increasingly denounced, is that of not taking into account the points that were left to be used in the previous amendment for future change of the remuneration position. In other words, in the case of a worker who has been in an institution for 10 years and who during that period has had the required points for progression and who, later on, does not end up using the remaining points, is also a flagrant injustice which is not considered that working time, which, of course, must also be respected. We believe that all points should be accounted for for for all possible legal effects and that, in particular, the surplus points should be used in future changes in remuneration positions, thus respecting the work done by the teacher, which effectively corresponds to the evaluation and which also gives rise to full respect for all workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u50	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Lopes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all the signatories of the petition under discussion, which I think are present here in the galleries. Request No 557 / XIII / 4. a — by the right to defreeze the teaching careers of higher education today, and signed by more than 4000 petitioners, was presented in October 2018. The theme of the career progression of higher education teachers was accompanied with particular attention at the Commission in the previous legislation. In addition to the hearing of the petitioners, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities, the Coordinating Council of the Political Higher Institutes and the National Union of Higher Education were also heard. PSD has always been faithful to the central values of merit, autonomy and responsibility. in this sense, he presented in his own time a draft resolution which was approved in this House, with the votes against the PS, and which was embodied in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 108 / 2019. This resolution recommends that the Government clarify the criteria for the remuneration of higher education teachers. The PSD urged the Government to clarify, unequivocally, and within 30 days, what criteria the institutions must adopt for remuneration progression, ending with the injustices between teachers and institutions, and to ensure that the government guarantees to the institutions the funds necessary for the payment of the remuneration advances of public higher education teachers. The PSD is aware that, due to differences in orientation and lack of clarification of the criteria, as well as the capitulations and cuts of Minister Centeno, higher education institutions face great difficulties in fulfilling their obligations. It is our understanding that the Government, in the next State budget, has necessarily to strengthen the funds for higher education, thus ensuring the institutions the necessary amounts for the payment of the proper progress payable to their teaching staff. It is up to the Government to guarantee the funds necessary for the institutions to fulfil their obligations. It's up to the government to rule! in public higher education, it was passed from automatic progression, every three years, to the real possibility of never progressing. It is up to the government and nobody else to end this inequality of opportunity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u52	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting FENPROF and all the petitioners, expressing the recognition of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the fundamental role of the trade union movement in social dialogue. Having said this, on the subjects under discussion today, it is important to point out that the petition and the initiatives presented here today are, in fact, not about the defrosting of the careers of teachers of higher education, but about their model of evaluation and progression. in fact, this comprehensory thawing of which the petition speaks was made. It was achieved in the previous legislation, the result of the work of the government and the parliamentary majority and is proof of the path that has been taken to value careers and to strengthen the dignity of higher education teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We would also like to comment on the proposals under consideration because, the trailer of a alleged clarification, we observe in the proposals under discussion the temptation to converge the system of progression in the career of higher education teachers for the model of evaluation and progression of general careers of the Public Administration. The Socialist Party is clear. We cannot agree that this is equal to what is different and much less we can agree with a path that devalues the specificity of the career of higher education teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we cannot agree with the projects presented today because they simply want to force a SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration) in the evaluation of higher education teachers, a SIADP sui generis, because these same teachers could choose another alternative system if it was more convenient, so I ask whether we will do the same to all the workers to whom SIADAP applies and whether the general career workers can choose an alternative system if it is more favourable to them. [[All right!]] Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins ( PS ) : - The defense of a country based on knowledge, science, certainly requires the valorization of teaching in higher education, but the defense of a country based on knowledge also requires that we have the ability not to yield to solutions that devalue the specificity of careers. The Socialist Party believes that there is a road for valuing work and science, but not through subversion of specific performance assessment regimes, which are fundamental to the structure of our higher education and science system. That is certainly not the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u54	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing this petition, which brings together more than 4200 signatures, which is unfortunately a recurring issue here in Parliament. I say 'unfortunately' because in the previous legislation, the remuneration of higher education teachers was widely treated either in plenary or in the Education Commission, having been heard by the CRUP (Council of Directors of Portuguese Universities ), the CCISP (Coordinating Council of Higher Institutes Polytechnics ), the unions, specifically the FenPROF (National Federation of Teachers), on 9 January 2018, as well as the SNESup (National Trade Union of Higher Education) and Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, but so far it has not been possible to find an effective solution. The CDS has since said that it recognises that there is a problem, created by the government, given the inconsistencies between what was set out in the 2018 State Budget, which refers to the General Law on Public Works, and what is foreseen in the statutes of teaching careers. In view of this, the vast majority of the institutions, within their autonomy, have applied the rules contained in their internal regulations and many teachers have already obtained the right gainful progression. But there are still injustices, adding to other limitations of career progression that current statutes allow, but once again it does not seem to us that the proposals under discussion are the right and complete instrument, since they would lead Parliament to make the table of autonomy of the institutions, imposing a budgetary burden of dubious legal possibility. We insist that it is up to the Government to clarify what needs to be done, even if it has to recognise a legislative error. It is up to the government to discuss career statutes in order to solve many persistent limiting situations. And it is up to the CDS, in exercising its powers, to demand that response from the Government. That is why we voted in favour of a draft resolution of the PSD in the previous legislative session, as mentioned earlier. In addition to the CDS, the Block, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN voted in favour, except for the Socialist Party, who voted against. in this resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, the government should, within 30 days—where they are already going! — to clarify unequivocally the institutions as to the criteria to be adopted for progress, ending with the relative injustices between teachers and institutions, as well as ensuring the necessary funds for the subsequent payment of these same wage progressions. None of that happened. We maintain our position on the CDS: it is the government and, in this case, it is exactly the same minister who created the problem and that from it it it continues to resign that the situation can be resolved and made the necessary clarifications. It is not for the Assembly of the Republic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u56	We move on to the next point in our agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 560 / XIII / 4. a ( Sandra Marisa Lourenço Gomes Pimenta and others) — They request equality in counting the time of service of ex-military in conjunction with the Resolution Project No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government account for the evaluation obtained by the former military in the years in which they performed functions in the Armed Forces, after entering the Public Administration, for the purposes of the Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System ( SIADAP ). First of all, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u57	Mr President, this petition, also signed by more than 4500 petitioners, has an essential objective, as it has been said: whether the time of service is counted within the Ministry of National Defence or within the framework of the Armed Forces for career and progression to those who, being ex-military, then have joined the Public Administration. from the point of view of the CDS, this is a fair claim, it is a serious pretension and it is a pretension which, of course, we subscribe. The CDS, moreover, already in the previous legislature, did a work on this subject: it promoted several meetings, several hearings, heard many of these military or ex-military, because it had the opportunity to meet with them, and for that reason it presented, and now again, a draft resolution allowing this House not only to discuss the petition, as it has a legislative instrument to rule on this same decision. I would also like to say, Mr President, that the claim is fair, because it is a time of service to Portugal, for more in the Armed Forces — a time of service to the homeland, literally saying — and therefore it is absolutely fair that this time and the assessment corresponding to that time be counted. Secondly, it is useful because, obviously, with this, we are doing what the country should do, which is to value time and service in the same Armed Forces. Finally, Mr President, although it may in some way have an indirect effect, this measure can have a positive effect. We all know today, because for a few years now, it is a serious problem of the Armed Forces, of the difficulty of recruiting the Armed Forces, that the Armed Forces have a recruitment deficit, a deficit of young people available. It is clear that if we say that the time they will serve in the Armed Forces, whether integrated, is under a contract regime, counts and is a form of entry and progression into a future career, it is clear that this can work as a stimulus. It is not here that the problem is solved, as it is obvious, or it is not only here that the problem is solved, but it can be counted as an incentive for younger people to join the Armed Forces and of course also to serve our country there. That is basically what I have to say, Mr President. We therefore present a draft resolution, obviously hoping to obtain the House's consensus so that it will be approved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u58	Mr Rui Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u59	Mr President, I begin by congratulating about 5,000 petitioners and saying that our Armed Forces are having a very serious problem in their basic pillar with the small number of effects. We all recognize that it is urgent to implement attractive policies that lead our young people to enter the military career. One of these factors is the implementation of a stable career, which has not happened and which this petition well reveals. This petition refers to ex-Militaries who, after terminating their contract and volunteering schemes, have not been counted that time of service for the purposes of career progression, as well as have had any compensation for unemployment benefits. The Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR) is clear in its Article 48. the, by saying that the time of service provided under contract or volunteering shall be counted as effective service time. It also determines Article 46. the EMFAR that should be counted as time of service provided to the State the time of military service increased from that provided in the exercise of public functions. In the previous Legislature, the PSD was in favour of the recovery of service time effectively provided to any state body, as is the case with the Armed Forces. With this petition, it is clear to the PSD that, at the end of four years, this Government can no longer postpone the resolution of the numerous problems that are gratifying in the social sector of the Armed Forces. at the end of four years, this government can no longer close its eyes to the constant degradation of the IASFA ( Institute of Social Action of the Armed Forces ), in a state of total financial asphyxiation. at the end of four years, this government can no longer allow the Hospital des Forces Armadas (HFAR ) to fail to meet the services for which it is designated, with a medical framework of excellence, because this financial asphyxiation does not allow adequate management of resources, as well as attests the fact that not a single user of the National Health Service ( SNS) has been operated at the Hospital des Forces Armadas, as a result of the protocol with the National Health Service. at the end of four years, this government cannot continue to forget the disabled of the Armed Forces, where ADFA ( Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies ) is seen, every day, alibi in its activity, because its respective funds are not transferred to it. at the end of four years, this government cannot devalue ex-combatants, nor the former military, as well as attests to this petition, because it is hypothesizing the image of the Armed Forces as an attractive structure for young people who must see, in this, the possibility of a stable professional career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u60	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u61	I will now finish, Mr President. This government only has to contribute quickly to keep our Armed Forces intact the prestige achieved over the centuries, immortalized on the most beautiful pages of our history and our literature, which travel our collective imagination and which today are confirmed in bravery, professionalism and effectiveness, in the war scenarios of the Central African Republic and in the peace missions in the Mediterranean and Afghanistan. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u62	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who brought this petition here, collecting some 5000 signatures, in which they demand equality in the count of former military service time which, under contract and volunteering, served in the Armed Forces. In fact, these people, many of them young, with or without higher education, when they return to public administration, feel and are discriminated against by the fact that they start their lives on the basis of career, serving them no good at all the evaluation obtained in the military institution. in this wish, here is the constitutional principle of the right of equality, an injustice that should be repaired as soon as possible. Even if the evaluation in public service is different within the scope of SIADAP, it is not justified, in the opinion of the Left Block, to start over from zero. As it is known, the incessant wage cuts and career freezes that characterized the period of the PSD/CDS government, at the orders of the troika, have imposed far-reaching consequences for workers and for the generality of Portuguese society. We have as an example the overwhelming suppression of social and labour rights, the worsening of living conditions and the consequent normalization of precariousness, which also focused on military and former military. Some have ended up being deprived of the right to promotion, others have had cuts in the proportion of two twelfths with the transition to the recruitment reserve, have had cuts in the unemployment allowance or have not been able to compete for internal competitions in the Public Administration. Unfortunately, the former PS government did not take the necessary steps either. It is enough to see that you have rejected the full count of service time of military, teachers and other special career holders, which has brought complete frustration and disappointment to these sectors of our society. It is time to move forward with concrete measures and repair injustice, and this government has conditions for that. The incentive scheme should take into account the expectations of people when they leave military life, when they are re-entered into civil life, being considered the assessment obtained for the purpose of progress in the public career, even because, Mrs and Mrs. Members, SIADAP has generated many criticisms and is not the oversupply of perfection, containing several mistakes and failures. For the Left Block, the draft resolution on this matter, presented here by the CDS, seems to go in the right direction. thus, the Government should adjust the legislation, considering the petitioners' claim in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u64	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Diogo León, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes some 5000 petitioners and, in these cases, all citizens who have served in the Armed Forces in recent years, on a voluntary and contractual basis, and who, above all, deserve to hear from the voices of this Parliament the following words: thank you very much for your service to Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this petition leads us to the fundamental themes of the valorization of the effectives of our Armed Forces and the attractiveness of military service provided in the voluntary and contract regimes, in which a convergent effort has been made to address the problems of recruitment, retention and reintegration into civil life. First, we must not fail to point out that the amendment of the special contract scheme for the provision of military service in 2018 is a naturally positive step, which has come to simplify and increase the areas where this long-term contract can be applied, adapting it to the real needs identified by the military leaders. It should also be pointed out that the Action Plan for the Professionalization of the Military Service, presented in 2019, whose fundamental objectives are exactly to recruit, retain and reinstate, and in which a set of measures to be adopted and targets to be achieved is a solid commitment of the national defence and the Armed Forces to the adequacy of the actual effective to the necessary effective, increasing it to the capacity of the authorised effector and ensuring that the number of new admissions to the Armed Forces is at least 20 % higher than the number of exits scheduled for the conclusion of contracts. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendments which the Government made in 2018 under the Rules of Incentives to the Provision of Military Service in the Different Contract Schemes and in the Voluntary Regime, where, just to give some examples, there is a very significant increase in the percentage of vacancies to former military personnel for entry into the security forces and for the criminal police bodies, professional firefighters, municipal police and forest guards. This, in addition to various positive discriminations and preferential rights to support the reintegration of these military and ex-military. On the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group addresses the difficulties in implementing the measure—as the CDS and the PSD well know, in fact, that they have never implemented when they were government—and pay attention to the jurisprudence of the Ombudsman on the subject. I conclude, Mr President, by believing that the country has taken firm steps and in the right direction to considerably improve the dignity of the military under voluntary arrangements, under contract and under special contract arrangements, thus promoting greater and better professionalization of our Armed Forces, and this mirrors the political option of the Government with the creation of the Secretary of State of Human Resources and the Former Fighters, which we publicly welcome here and which will certainly reassess and consolidate all these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u66	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reasons for this petition, whose subscribers naturally greet, help to understand the reason for the lack of effective in the Portuguese Armed Forces, particularly in the voluntary and contract schemes. Indeed, the failure of young people to adhere to voluntary schemes and contracts in the Armed Forces is largely due to the subsequent failure to comply with the commitments made to these young people when they were invited to join the voluntary schemes and contracts in the Armed Forces. In fact, a number of expectations were created that they would have access to careers of the Public Administration and that they would have access to qualifications obtained in the Armed Forces which would then have the necessary equivalences when they completed their contracts. however, what has happened — and over the years, the Assembly of the Republic has had many testimonies of this — it was that when the young people ended their contracts with the Armed Forces, they were in a state of unemployment, of little value to them the qualification and appreciation they obtained in the Armed Forces. Now, this is a situation that helps explain why military leaders systematically tell us that there is a huge lack of effect that has already caused alarm signs in the Armed Forces to sound about the imminent shortage of frames in order to be able to carry out those that are their own missions. So, what we are requested here is that there be a look from the Assembly of the Republic on this matter, on the concrete question of whether the time of service provided in the voluntary arrangements and contracts in the Armed Forces as an accounting time of service for those accessing the Public Administration after having served in the Portuguese Armed Forces. This is a reasonable issue. Moreover, in the context of PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the Pre-Care Bonds in Public Administration ), this issue has been equationd, so we see no reason why it is not for those who have provided a service to the Portuguese State, corresponding to it — I would not say a concession, because that is not what it is, since the defense of the homeland is constitutionally a duty of the Portuguese citizens — an appeal made to young people to serve in the Armed Forces with certain guarantees that have finally been cheated. We therefore consider it important for this House to look at not only the existing status for voluntary and contract schemes but also the situation in which these young people remain after the termination of their contracts, so as not to create situations of frustration that then lead young people not to want to join the service of the Armed Forces. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the draft resolution presented here, hoping that, in this legislature, in particular through the National Defence Commission, there may be a careful look at voluntary schemes and contracts in the Armed Forces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u68	We will move on to the fifth point of the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 566 / XIII / 4. a ( Liliana Brito de Lima et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the mandatory availability of conditions for children's sextas until entry into primary school, together with the Resolution Projects 28 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school education establishments, 38 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adopts the recommendations of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, promoting the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children and 47 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the conditions for the effective possibility of 6th anniversary of pre-school education in the public network of the Ministry of Education. To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u69	Mr. President, Ex.mos Srs. Members and Ex.mas Members : I begin by thanking the authors and authors of the petition and the more than 4700 petitioners for the relevance of the topic, since the sixth from three to five years is a very important part of this stage of childhood. The imposition of the newer of the accelerated and very busy rhythms of adults is a sign of the current times and makes a shallow table of all scientific evidences that have long pointed to the different stages of the physical and psychological development of human beings. To shorten steps or anticipate them is not only penalizing and stressful how it compromises the development of the next steps. Changing biological rhythms and the way a child incorporates external stimuli can compromise its physical and intellectual development.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u71	With this, we want to say that there is an age to play and play, and thus interact with the world, an age to start the more structured learnings, another to learn philosophy and at least another to study Quantum Physics. More and more, children from three to five years of age have the possibility of attending preschool education. This reality, which is a civilizational advance, occurs in a system that is not physically and structurally prepared, because it corresponds to preparation for 1. the cycle, socializing the child for the school and its rhythms, from then on with learning activities and depriving them of the sixth. Two decades of growth in pre-school education have not yet raised the necessary reflection, neither as to the model with educational tendency and the deprivation of sex, nor as to the resolution of the logistical difficulty of dropping groups of children at the same time and in the same space. According to the Portuguese Sono Society, sleeping is essential in any stage of life. The idea of restorative sleep refers to the following multiplicity of their functions, which occurs while we sleep: the restoration of biological systems, the body growth in the case of children and young people, the regulation of body temperature and immunity and, most important in terms of defense of school success, the promotion of cognitive functions and the ability to learn, such as memory, imagination, creativity, verbal fluency and the development of vocabulary. We can thus say without exaggeration that the success of the 12 years of schooling is related, in a part that we should not neglect, with what is agreed on in the frequency of preschool education. The deprivation of the sixth is accompanied by increased tasks and activities of schoolchildren, with less and less time for the play and for the game at these ages. If, in all this, we add the long hours of work of the parents and the shorter time to be in the family, it becomes clear — as the experts and the studies say — that Portuguese children are the ones who sleep the least, revealing symptoms of sleep deprivation, such as emotional instability, tiredness, difficulty in concentration and learning, lack of attention and hyperactivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u72	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u73	I'm done now, Mr. President. Instead of wanting to anticipate stages of development and deprive children of the sixth grade, we should consider this stage of development of the person in order to find and outline educational projects adjusted to age and not to think about the next cycle. The Left Block Parliamentary Group therefore recommends that the Government consider the importance of this sixth level of education and apply it cross-borderly to all pre-school education establishments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u74	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners who have signed this petition for bringing to this debate the issue of the importance of biases for children. The NAP had already presented a legislative initiative on this subject in the past legislature, but, given the rejection of the parliamentary majority, we now return with an initiative that, welcoming the concerns of the petitioners and the recommendations of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, aims to create conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children. In 2017, the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics released a set of recommendations for the practice of child sex, with the aim of uniformizing and promoting the best practice for day sleep or child sex, from 3 months to 36 months of age, at daycare, and from 3 years to 6 years of age, in pre-school education, in public or private institution. Given the existing scientific evidence on this subject, this entity recommends that the sixth is facilitated and promoted in children up to 5 / 6 years of age, highlighting the consequences of sleep deprivation in children's health, which can cause a wide range of organic, physical, psychological and emotional disorders, sometimes with consequences, in the short and long term, in the health and well-being of adolescents and adults, consequences that can even be irreversible. In fact, deprivation of sex and failure to perform total hours of daily sleep has been a cause for concern for families and paediatricians. For example, the pediatrician Mário Lambeiro, in an interview with the media, argued that «a good kindergarten has an obligation to have two rooms, one for children, of any age, who need to sleep sixth and another where the rest will be played», while remembering that sleeping the sixth is a physiological necessity. Despite the recommendations in Portugal, most children are unable to complete the recommended sleep time for their age, a situation that gets worse when they leave school and start to attend pre-school education, which, compared to the other European countries, makes Portugal in the country where the total daily sleep time for pre-school children is among the lowest, especially between the four and five years old. The Joint Order No 268 / 97 of 25 August defining the pedagogical and technical requirements for the installation and operation of pre-school education establishments states that among the minimum spaces to be considered in the establishment of the facilities there must be a multi-purpose room that may serve as a rest room. Despite all this, a large number of children do not have access to sexism in pre-school education, a situation that worsens in public institutions. In conclusion, following the guidance of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, we recommend that the Government provide adequate conditions for all pre-school-age children in order to ensure that they are able to take the sixth. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u76	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers of Petition No 566 / XIII / 4. the, with more than 4000 signatures, which defend the possibility of having sex in pre-school. It is a situation that the CFP has been accompanying since the beginning and, for this purpose, in the past legislature, presented a draft resolution proposing that, in fact, steps could be taken to ensure that this realization of the possibility of the sixth from three years onwards, in preschool education, especially in the public network of the Ministry of Education, could be a reality. This initiative of the CFP and other parliamentary groups led to the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 178 / 2019, which recommends that the Government consider the possibility of introducing the sixth in pre-school education. Indeed, today, this issue needs to be more advanced and that is why the PCP resolution project now presents, in this legislature, new elements, taking into account the various scientific research works and the various elements that have been gathered from that time up to now and that demonstrate that the issue of healthy children's sleep is intrinsically linked to the quality of life and to the question of their emotional, social and cognitive development. In fact, as has already been said, the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics has a very clear opinion on the issue of the fulfillment of the sixth and its promotion in preschool, and in Portugal these children do not normally carry out the sixth, especially those attending public institutions. This is because they have no conditions, because the rooms are small, because there is no equipment, because there is no proper joint so that this can happen with all the quality that children naturally need. There are clear indicators that there is an important sleep deprivation in Portuguese children, a widespread problem at national level—it will not only be a localized issue—with around 10 % of children presenting a sleep duration much lower than the reference values in other countries. This situation is not disconnected from the lives of families themselves and several researchers have talked about issues that the PCP has long been defending and denouncing. It is urgent to promote reflection and assertive measures on school hours, but also on the working hours of parents and educators, so that it is possible to meet earlier among children and parents at the end of the day, allowing family coexistence with all the quality and enabling calmer routines and helping the issue of sleep at the end of the day in order to minimize the conflict with the time to go to bed. The truth is that in many cases this has not happened, many families are affected by irregular schedules and, since there is no promotion of sexism in preschool, children enter a situation of deficit that has to be combated. Thus, what the CFP proposes, with this Resolution Project, is the fight against chronic sleep deprivation of children, ensuring all the conditions for the effective possibility of carrying out, hiring all the workers needed and ensuring the financing for the acquisition of all necessary means.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u78	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u79	I shall finish, Mr. President, Knowing that this situation also has an impact on the organization of the life of schools, there must be a collective negotiation of the changes that must be introduced in terms of the conditions for the organization and functioning of pre-school education in order to ensure full respect for workers' rights. With regard to the other projects under discussion — and I even finish, Mr President — we believe that the one of the Left Block has already been partially surpassed by the resolution previously published, but it contains elements that are still present, and, as far as the NAP is concerned, there are elements that can be considered, so in the work of expertise we will naturally be available for this purpose. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u80	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the Greens Ecologist Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecologist Party welcomes petitioners for bringing to the discussion a topic as current as that of the need of children who attend kindergartens can make the sixth. Some parents began to realize that the practice of the sixth at the beginning of the afternoon was lost in pre-school education establishments. With faster paces of life, with a lack of family support networks, children have long been forced to fulfill their parents' working hours. Often, what happens is that children go to school earlier than parents go to work and leave school a little after their parents finish their work hours. Many children spend more time in educational establishments than the one their parents do at work. Therefore, and also bearing in mind that in 2017 the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics recommended that the sixth is « facilitated and promoted in children up to five years old », it will be necessary to consider each child's schedules in order to assess their need to rest and respect their biphasic sleep regimen. The Greens consider that the discussion of the introduction of the sixth in pre-school education establishments should bear in mind that by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 178 / 2019, published on 12 September in Diário da República – therefore, about two months ago – the Government is obliged to present a study on this subject to launch a public debate on this subject. from the perspective of The Greens, the achievement of results resulting from the realization of these demands is important for the government to take steps to ensure that children, from three years old, are entitled to sixth in public institutions of pre-school education, investing in the means necessary for this purpose, including in the hiring of the necessary professionals. Indeed, we cannot ignore that these establishments face a number of difficulties, which go through the shortage of material and human resources, to ensure the logistical conditions so that each child can rest. Once again, in addition to the awareness and recommendations of specialists, it is essential not to ignore investment in education and its consequences. The Greens reaffirm that public resources that are oriented towards education should not be seen as expenditure, but as an effective investment. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u82	Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the nearly 5000 signatories of this petition, which request the compulsory existence of conditions for the sixth of the children until entry into school 1. the cycle. Considering the current reality, almost all public institutions of pre-school education do not practice sixth for children three or more years of age. According to the values resulting from the most recent survey carried out by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics, published in September, this fact reaches about 130 000 children. It should also be noted that the arguments that have supported the lack of this practice relate to questions of the material and organizational forum, which correspond to ultra-passable obstacles. The practice of sexism in schools is recommended by the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, which considers that the consequences of sleep deprivation in children may cause serious damage to their development, such as loss of emotional control, reduced abstract reasoning, aggressiveness, poor school income, hyperactivity and lack of attention, thus leading us to doubt the compliance of Article 29 (1). that of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which upholds the promotion of « development of the child's personality, of his or her gifts and mental and physical skills to the extent of his or her potential». in its June 2017 recommendations, the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics summarizes scientific evidence on this subject, recommending that the sixth is « facilitated and promoted in children up to 5 / 6 years old », considering that « it is currently a priority to ensure a sufficient amount of sleep of good quality for all children at appropriate times according to their individual needs ». Given the seriousness of the proven consequences of the deprivation of sleep in children, we are surprised that the Minister of Education's response to this petition on 22 January 2019 focused on constraints on spaces and human resources, assuming that it does not have a survey that allows a calculation of costs, in terms of investment in kindergartens, and focusing on these limitations to avoid access to the request.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u85	The PSD, unlike the Minister, recognizes that it is urgent to find a solution to the problem, which may not be in great investment either in buildings or in staff, given that, in relation to spaces for the sixth year, the generality of existing establishments has several rooms for the installation of removable beds, whether housing rooms, business rooms or other multi-purpose rooms, readily adaptable to this end. Similarly, adult surveillance can be carried out by the same educational assistants who are already with children, whether they are sleeping or not. The PSD therefore calls for the practical sense and speed of urgent application of measures that ensure the adherence of all pre-school establishments to these proposals, so that the possibility of practicing sex for all children who need it applies, being fully available to carry out the legislative initiatives necessary for the urgent implementation of the practice of pre-school sex. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u86	Mrs Maria da Graça Reis, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the petitioners who brought us the question of the adoption of measures with a view to creating a requirement for conditions for the sixth of the children until entry into force of paragraph 1. the cycle. I must say from now on that the PS Parliamentary Group is sensitive to this and other issues related to the full development of young people. As we know, pre-school education is the first stage of basic education in the education process throughout life and, as well as other levels of education, presupposes a complementary action of the family, with which it must establish close cooperation, in order to promote the formation and balanced development of the child. This petition is prepared on the basis of a document published on 1 June 2017 by the Section for Social Pediatrics of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics on the theme « the practice of child sex in day care and children, public or private », which recommends that the sixth one be « facilitated and promoted in children up to 5 / 6 years old », as we have just heard. However, in the same document the following is said: 'In view of the enormous inter-individual variability in sleep needs and it is not possible to establish a rule based only on age, it is important to stress that the sixth must not be compulsory. Therefore, taking into account these elements, as well as those defended by institutions that teach pre-school education, it is understood that the practice of sexism should not be compulsory, and should first be evaluated within the framework of the pedagogical and administrative autonomy of each institution, in terms expressed in its rules of procedure, provided that the healthy development and growth of children is always preferred, depending on individualized practice, insofar as they do not have all the same sleep needs. Finally, each educational institution will have to safeguard the practice of the educational component, which, for pre-school education, recommends a total of five hours, and that the sixth place, to occur, be in the afternoon, after lunch. Of course, the existence of spaces and equipment necessary for its implementation, as well as safety, hygiene and physical conditions appropriate to rest and their human resources, should be guaranteed. at this point, the authorities are the institutions with competence in equipment and facilities at this level of education, as well as in the management of human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u88	For the last intervention on this point, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, of the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the more than 4750 subscribers to this petition, the subject of which has already been covered in the previous legislation. The Parliamentary Group of the CDS takes note of the recommendation contained in the above-mentioned document on « practice of child sex in public or private day care centres », published in June 2017 by the Section for Social Paediatrics of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, which is, moreover, the basis for this petition. This document, which is based on the current scientific literature, published and published by pairs, argues, in fact, that the sixth is to be facilitated and promoted for children up to 5 / 6 years of age. As is the case of the CDS being the last parliamentary group to speak, I will become a little repetitive in relation to some of the ideas already discussed here. It is also important for us to bring to the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the same document makes it clear that there is a huge variability between children and children as regards sleep needs. Therefore, it is not possible to establish a single rule, based only on age, which is why the sixth is not mandatory. We have already stated in the previous legislation, either in plenary, or in committee, that we agree with the offer of a variable rest period, depending on the age and needs of each child, whose adequacy should be considered and weighted individually by the educators, together with the families. Moreover, in times when the autonomy of schools is discussed and its strengthening is promoted, it does not make sense that decisions of this nature are made centrally and equally for all. We therefore believe that, in collaboration with and with the agreement of education officials, educators, grouping directors and authorities, it is possible to provide the appropriate conditions for the realization of the claim of this petition. however, knowing that there has been a lot of pressure from schools to make this offer available, we agree with the initiatives that propose to study and evaluate the possible response, taking into account the material and human conditions, which are, in fact, necessary and very different grouping for grouping, in order to meet the needs, also different from each child and family.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u91	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We move on to the sixth and last point, which is from the assessment of Petition No 503 / XIII / 3. a ( Vera Candida Pinto Gomes et al.) — They call for measures to improve the conditions for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases ( Crohn and ulcerative colitis), together with the Resolution Projects 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease, 36 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize the impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on the lives of these patients, 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases and 50 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to present the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I respect the 10 714 petitioners and petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic, some of whom are present in the galleries, thanking the opportunity to hold this discussion. We certainly speak of an expressive number of petitioners and a reality that is also expressive and that we cannot ignore. About 20 000 people in Portugal suffer from inflammatory bowel diseases. These people need regular health care throughout their lives and have other diseases associated, from dermatological to rheumatological, which, as you will easily perceive, has a huge impact from the social, economic and psychological point of view. In fact, according to an investigation conducted by the same promoters who bring us this petition, more than 50 % of people with inflammatory bowel diseases say not to leave home when the disease is acute. Therefore, the impact of these diseases is perceived from a social point of view. These people also report that they lack work several times because of the disease or that they spend more than 100 € per month on medication and moderate rates. This also makes us easily realize the economic impact these diseases have. These people also report having other associated pathologies. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that, having become aware of this reality, we also have to have the sincerity to say that the country can and should do more for those who have an inflammatory bowel disease in Portugal. The country can and should do more to minimize the impact of these diseases on the various aspects of people's lives and to improve their quality of life. from the left block, we have assumed from the beginning the commitment to petitioners and to all people who have inflammatory bowel disease to bring to the Assembly of the Republic these measures that the country can and should take into account and, therefore, we have presented this legislative initiative that is under discussion. The measures are as follows: that everyone who has an inflammatory bowel disease is exempt from the payment of moderate rates; that everyone who has an inflammatory bowel disease does not feel any sense of obliging to co-payments people who need regular health care; that they share the food supplements, diapers and other products that are necessary to improve their quality of life and their daily life; and that there is no point in discussing the creation of a chronic patient's status in the Assembly of the Republic, in addition to creating the mechanisms necessary to allow free access to health facilities by those who suffer from these diseases. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we hope that this Left Block initiative will be approved, because this is what these people need, and that is what this country can still do for them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u93	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor to present draft resolution No 36 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u94	Mr President: We are now discussing this petition, signed by more than 10,700 petitioners — some of whom are present, and I welcome — which calls for measures to improve the living conditions of patients with inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. These two diseases have unknown causes that may involve several factors, from genetic to environmental, and affect the immune system, triggering a chronic inflammatory process. in Europe, about 100 000 new cases occur each year and - in Portugal, between 15 000 and 20 000 Portuguese are estimated to be affected - and I say 'estimated' because there is no official record of these patients. These diseases occur predominantly in groups of the active population, with symptoms often limited or even incapacitating for work and strongly penalizing the quality of life of patients, also affecting their families. Since the symptoms of inflammatory bowel diseases are varied, it is essential that clinicians, especially family physicians, be aware that these patients have access to an early diagnosis and a reference for consultation of gastroenterology and can quickly access the various degrees of appropriate treatments, in order to minimize serious complications, as well as the impacts of the disease which, as mentioned above, are often incapacitating and call into question the full quality of life. But it is also urgent to take other measures that can mitigate this impact, either in the lives of patients or in the lives of their families, such as providing them with a priority access card from the outset to public health facilities or in private areas of public access, which is particularly relevant in times of crisis and acute situation. There are many patients in these situations who cannot go to work or even leave home, afraid of traumatic exposure that may suffer if they have a crisis. Since these diseases lead to other complications and have associated other diseases, the clinical follow-up of these patients in various specialties, in addition to gastroenterology, is also essential. Therefore, the costs with the payment of moderate rates prove to be heavy. Thus, and in order to encourage proper clinical follow-up, avoiding such additional complications with increased costs for the SNS itself, it seems fair to us that these patients should be exempted from the payment of moderate rates. due to the high degree of disability that these diseases can cause, it is essential that assistant doctors and family doctors be sensitized to the referral of these patients to a medical board in order to measure the degree of disability resulting from the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u96	If the medical board determines that the patient has a disability of 70 % or more, the patient will have access to the various benefits resulting there. The degree of disability should always be measured according to the specific situation of the patient and not according to the disease. Consequently, the CDS recommends that the Government take the necessary measures in order to provide patients with inflammatory bowel disease with a priority access card to public health facilities; that it exempts patients from inflammatory bowel disease from the payment of moderate rates; and that it adopt measures to raise awareness in the medical community for the referral of patients with inflammatory bowel disease to medical joints, in order to speed up the degree of disability resulting from the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u97	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u98	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We sincerely hope that all these projects, as part of their expertise, will form a single and comprehensive resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, for the benefit of the patients who bring this petition here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u99	To present draft resolution No 44 / XIV / 1. a, you have the floor Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament today is discussing a petition, signed by more than 10 000 citizens — who have already taken advantage of greeting — which calls for measures to improve the conditions of those with inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. I would also like to point out from now on that the PSD Parliamentary Group shares the concerns and hopes of these petitioners and recognises the fairness in the proposals for which, for the past year and a half — yes, for the past year and a half! — if any government proactivity is expected. Therefore, we present a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases. And why did we do it? Because, in a context where these diseases show an increasing trend, currently affecting more than 20,000 Portuguese people, we are well aware of the fragility and unwanted effects that they cause and that in many cases do not only affect health as the quality of life of their patients. Examples of pathologies associated with inflammatory bowel diseases are psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis, one of the dermatological forums and another of rheumatological nature. In addition, we are fully aware that the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases involves very high costs and tight monitoring, not only by the disease itself, but also by the possible side effects of medication. But the inflammatory diseases of the intestine also cause in their patients episodes of real emergency, which require their priority access to sanitary facilities, a situation that should not fail to be considered by the public authorities, in order to diminish the real impact of these contingencies on the quality of life of those with these diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u102	The PSD Parliamentary Group is not limited, solely and exclusively, to welcoming petitioners. We believe that their claims deserve our acceptance. We therefore recommend that the Government adopt measures to support those with inflammatory bowel diseases. in this field, it is of high importance to create measures that promote access to health services, including moderate rates, that protect them in the workplace and also protect them by facilitating their daily routine, as is the case with the priority access card to health facilities. This PSD initiative, if it is met, will not solve all the problems of citizens with inflammatory bowel disease, but will surely improve their quality of life and make them feel more and more integrated in society, a society that we want more and more inclusive and solidarity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u103	To present the Resolution Project No. 50 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating about 11 000 petitioners who have signed this petition and all those who have carried out this initiative. We greet you for having managed to bring to this debate the need for measures to improve the living conditions of people with inflammatory bowel diseases. In fact, in a work carried out by petition dynamizers, the consequences for patients with inflammatory bowel disease are well manifested. in this work, we found that 57% of patients underwent more than six medical tests, that one in two patients missed more than six times at work and that 53% spent more than 100 € per month on health expenses related to the disease. This study also shows that 56% of participants did not leave home because they did not know whether they would have access to a bathroom in case of an emergency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the CFP, we are sensitive to the physical and psychological weaknesses that these diseases entail and also to the high costs associated with health care and appropriate treatments. We therefore accompany this petition with a draft resolution recommending that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. We understand from the outset that it is necessary to exempt these patients with inflammatory bowel disease from the payment of moderate rates. These patients use the SNS only because they need it. We understand that it is a wrong idea to create conditions that hinder access to health care. For us, PCP, it is also essential to identify specific needs and support for chronic patients, which naturally includes inflammatory bowel disease, and consequently also to adopt legislative measures relating to highly incapacitating diseases. With this Project, we also believe that it is necessary to find the possibility of issuing an access card or other document that allows easy access to sanitary facilities of private establishments with open access to the public. And we also argue that it is necessary to ensure that all patients with inflammatory bowel disease have access in the SNS to pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than the hearing of the petitioners and the debate we are now making, this petition allowed some parliamentary groups, such as the CFP, to present legislative initiatives. We believe that conditions are met more than enough to work, as a specialist, all the draft resolutions that are under discussion and we will produce a resolution that responds to the real need of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Therefore, we can say that they can count on the PCP for defending the right to health protection for all. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u105	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - let me say a special greeting to the more than 10,700 petitioners and to all those who have urged this petition - some of whom are here to attend the plenary -, congratulating me on behalf of the Socialist Party and declaring our recognition for the initiative. Request No 503 / XIII / 3. the aim is to request the adoption of measures to improve the conditions for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. These diseases affect more than 20 000 Portuguese, which concerns us, but also encourages us to find solutions to these and other problems related to them. Chronic diseases are one of the main causes of death and disability, which cannot be factors determining the social and economic inequalities resulting from the health condition imposed by these diseases. Currently, health systems can reconfigure the provision of health care in a more sustainable, humanized and citizen-centred perspective. in the context of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, the 2017 legislation — I repeat, the 2017 legislation — provides for the participation of 100 % of the medicinal products intended for the treatment of these patients. The Support Product Allocation System ( SAPA ) has also been approved, a system that contributes to the realization of a comprehensive, integrated and cross-sectional response policy for people such as Crohn patients. The support products used in the body by these patients, provided that prescribed by the SNS, are also reimbursed to the users. thus, we are of the view that a specific status for chronic patients may not be exactly what these patients need, and therefore we continue to defend and believe that models of chronic disease management should be sought to meet the real needs of these patients, particularly with regard to the integration of the various levels of care and a commitment to functionality and active integration into society. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is sensitive to the claim of petitioners and the difficulties experienced by these patients. With regard to moderate rates, the Government Programme states that it will phase out the payment of moderate rates in primary health care and in all care services, the origin of which is a reference of the SNS. We therefore believe that this should be addressed in a comprehensive and comprehensive way. As for the priority access card to public and public health facilities, we deserve total agreement. We understand, for example, that several entities in the sector and also the associations of patients should be involved in resolving this issue. It is correct to say that there is already a journey, but there is still a way to go. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore endeavour to consolidate and expand the demands of these citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u107	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u108	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more word of appreciation to all these people who have brought this petition to us on such an important subject that it mobilises us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-14.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work today. I will now announce the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will take place tomorrow for 10 hours. of the first point is the assessment of Petition No 487 / XIII / 3. a ( Rui Filipe Teixeira da Graça et al.) — Measures to defend the Pinhal do Rey, together with generally the Resolution Projects Nos 41 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Saving the coastal forests: short and long-term commitments, 42 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — by defense of Pinhal de Leiria, 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the fulfilment of forestry criteria under the National Lawn Recovery Plan and 49 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, monitoring and monitoring of the valuation of the National Leiria Forest. of the second point is the assessment of Petition No 113 / XIII / 1. a (Order of Physicians) — by the right to reduce working hours, for the follow-up of children up to 3 years of age, in two hours a day, by one of the parents, together with, in general, the Bills No. 26 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensures the right to reduce working hours for breastfeeding, breastfeeding or accompanying children up to 3 years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 55 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the allowance for child care up to 2 years of age, in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, starting at 15 years. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, 60 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the dispensation for follow-up to children up to 3 years of age, starting at 16. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February and 62 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the right of children up to 3 years to be accompanied by parents. of the third point is the assessment of Petition No 527 / XIII / 3. a ( Marta Oliveira et al.) — They request that the medical discharge for cancer patients be paid 100 %, together with Law Projects Nos 59 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased allowance for disease attributed to serious, chronic or oncological patients ( 6 ). the amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ), 63 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the disease allowance for tuberculosis, oncological disease and chronic disease ( 6 ). the amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 ), in general, and Draft Resolution No 39 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for strengthening the protection of workers in the disease when it involves particularly serious economic circumstances. of the fourth point is the assessment of Petition No 530 / XIII / 3. a (Ricario Filipe Madeira Simões et al.) — They request legislative amendment to establish the legal presumption of alternative residence for children with separate parents. of the fifth point is the assessment of Petition No 532 / XIII / 3. a ( José Vieira Lourenço et al.) — They request that the motherhood of Coimbra be integrated in the space of the Hospital dos Covões, together with, in general, the Resolution Projects 23 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the location of the future neonatology and care unit in pregnancy and delivery of Coimbra on the grounds adjacent to the Hospital dos Covões, 29 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Implementation of the new motherhood of Coimbra at the General Hospital Campus ( Covões ) and 48 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra to cover the number of births of current maternity and is located at the General Hospital of Coimbra. of the sixth point is the submission of the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2018. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. See you tomorrow and a good afternoon rest for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 19 minutes.]]
