ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. the agenda for today's plenary meeting are two points. The first point consists of political declarations and the second point in votes. Before we begin the political statements, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do her best to read the various initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, the Proposal for a Law No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 2341. They were also presented, and admitted, Law Projects No. 128 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creation of the migrant woman programme, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 129 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Defines a new framework of incentives for youth associations abroad, which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 8.a and 12. a Commissions ; 130 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker and the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining ( Tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 131 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Basic climate law, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 132 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates inequalities in the allocation of additional fixation to staff of the Prison Guard Corps in functions in autonomous regions ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2014 of 9 January 2014 ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures supporting the Community pharmacy network, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 123 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For the implementation of the requirement of stay of doctors in the National Health Service after specialized training, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 124 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of an incentive plan for the establishment in Portugal of national citizens affected by serious crises in their countries of residence, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 125 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of higher education access quota for Portuguese young people abroad, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 126 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop a mentoring programme for young immigrants in close cooperation with the IEFP and the Portuguese consulates, which falls to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u3	I ask Secretary Helga Correia to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members also entered the Bureau and were admitted to draft resolutions Nos 127 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government support the creation of an emigrant portal and an emigrant return guide, which falls to 2. the Commission; 128 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of funding to the Vila Nova de Cerveira Biennial ; 129 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — At the end of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the area called « Battle and Pombal » ; 130 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national action plan for the control of the invasive water plant to ensure its removal and recovery of the ecosystems affected by it, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 131 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Abolition of tolls in A24, which goes down to 6 : the Commission ; 132 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Abolition of tolls in A25, which falls to 6. the Commission; 133 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — By the urgent re-qualification of the National Road 225, which falls to 6. the Commission; 134 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote an assessment of the principle of the convergence of airport charges which falls to 6. the Commission ; 135 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Investment in the railway network in Braga district ; 136 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Expands the supply of programme services in TDT, which drops to 11. the Commission; 137 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By signing the portals missing in the legislation relating to non-conventional therapies and nominal redefinition of activity, which falls to 9. the Commission ; and 138 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Law No 20 / 2019, 22 February, which provides for the strengthening of the protection of animals used in circuses, which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. I have to make the correction of a lapse during the reading of the file, although it has not been the responsibility of Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo. This error, which was detected by the author of the initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, and by myself, was the following: in draft resolution No 123 / XIV / 1. a (IL) should not read « For the implementation of the requirement of stay of doctors in the National Health Service after specialized training», but « For the non-implementation of requirement of stay of doctors in the National Health Service after specialized training ». The correction is done. We will enter the first item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations. I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday our country received Greta Thunberg, the symbol of a generation that rises against climate change and the first element of the movement "Now Global", supported by the student climate strikes, which knows how we organize ourselves in society, how our economy is structured to respond to a crisis that is today and not tomorrow. And we know that when they say — and we hear them — that if the climate was a bank has already been saved, they throw at the root of the problem, the lack of political will to respond to climate change. So in this global hall where we are, this new generation of young people are actually the adults on our planet, who demand for today what we cannot leave for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u8	But I think it is right to greet all Members and parliamentary groups who have moved to receive Greta Thunberg. We can show how solidarity towards a cause does not mix with political opportunism...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u10	... and how, in fact, when we are bound to a cause, an idea, a desire for transformation, there is no kind of confusion that can be generated. I believe that this sovereignty body has shown the country how we should be politically aligned with what is important. Greta Thunberg will also travel to COP25 ( Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ), the United Nations Conference which, after being planned to be held in Brazil, saw this availability denied by the Bolsonaro negationist government, then passed to Chile, and which therefore lacks social stability, went to Madrid. This COP25, which emerges 25 years after the first holding of these conferences, shows how much to do. Since the last 25 years, CO2 emissions have increased by about 60%, extreme climate events are unquestionable today, and we see in front of us the possibility of thousands of species disappearing. The climate urgency is unequivocal and proven by several panels of scientists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u12	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that we are already going beyond all the goals we should meet, the World Meteorology Organization ( World Meteorology Organisation ) tells us exactly the same, and yesterday, even yesterday, it was the European Environment Agency ( EEA ) that said the European Union would fail the targets by 2020 and probably not meet either the 2030s or the 2050s. Let us hear the words of Guterres, which summarize the difficulty we are facing, saying that the last five years have been the hottest we have ever recorded. Greenland lost 179 billion tons of ice only in July and the Arctic permanent ice layer is melting 70 years before the forecast, sea levels are rising much faster than expected, at the same time that are poisoned. We are far from fulfilling what was required of us and we are allowing the decisive time to pass to give the necessary answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u14	This COP is essential for us to focus on the debate where it must be focused. It is the only multilateral space, on a planetary scale, where we can discuss this issue and it is therefore very important, but it cannot serve to give the beaten answers or to fail at this crucial moment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u16	... can't serve to answer the system that is itself the problem of the planet and not any solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u18	This idea that is a green capitalism that will replace obsolete capitalism is to insist on the same mistake, which does not allow us to have any solutions. From this point of view, to say that if you want to know about the planet, while protecting the oil, or supporting the movement that defends this climate strike of students who are missing from classes because you know that the future is fundamental and you have to defend, but that then they are attacked, it is not to realize that we really need to act quickly. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another urgency that is now before the country: from a few hours now the Israeli Prime Minister will land in Portugal. Benjamin Netanyahu is not only the Israeli Prime Minister, he is also corrupt, war criminal, colonialist, who every day heeds UN resolutions, and comes to Portugal seeking allies for the creation of a new apartheid in that region,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u19	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u20	... to ensure that you obtain the final annexation of the Jordan Valley. If the United Kingdom refused to be the cicero of the meeting of Benjamin Netanyahu with the US Secretary of State, the question is why Portugal has become available for this role, because it gives it a stamp of State visit, having the meeting with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think today's question is whether the Socialist Party's Government wants to re-edit the model of the sad picture of the Lajes Summit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u22	I think we deserved better on a global scale. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u23	Mr President, the Bureau records the entries of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u24	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u25	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u26	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I greet you only and only by COP25, and I will explain why. On the subject that you bring here, we have to look forward, especially for next year. If Paris was insufficient, at the beginning, and if a national contribution mechanism was created, they today, as I said, are considered to be unintended, at the beginning, in this COP25; if 23% of emissions are from ecosystem degradation, the United Nations biodiversity conference, the Aichi Goals for 2020 were also on the way. In 2020 there is a biodiversity convention that wants a new Paris and that has the first revision of national contributions at COP26. So we have to talk about impact, because as much as we can do at home on this subject can be little for the country if we don't have any more green energy, if we don't have less polluting transport, if we don't have biodiversity protection. How much we can do in Portugal can be little in the world if we are well with countries like China having 27 % of their emissions. Here we do not choose to take any measures or other measures, we have to do all of them, and it is important that the time comes when each of the parliamentary groups comes here to make political statements on the subject. But if they are to raise awareness, to debate one's ideology or to talk about Netanyahu's visit, for example, it will be right to those who say out there that we talk a lot here but we do little. Don't you prefer to be more ambitious? Don't you prefer to come talk about the goals that the Block proposes instead of making this mix of themes? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u27	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u28	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Carvalho, I begin by greeting you because you were yesterday at the reception of Greta Thunberg, which I believe is an important demonstration. But I must say that I am enjoying many of the ideas that you have defended here and, by now, those that your party here has voted. On the goals that the Left Block intends to achieve, they are known. We debate them often and start by ensuring that there is an urgent closure of coal plants in our country. Interestingly, from this point of view, we have not been accompanied by the PSD, which has rejected our claim. [[PSD protests.]] But when we talk about, for example, the exploitation of hydrocarbons in our country, how was the PSD when it was in government and allowed oil exploration?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u30	We cannot talk about combating climate change, and then governance, on the other hand, being holding hands with oil, which are exactly the enemy of this problem because they represent what we must fight to ensure a speedy response. Finally, he referred to China and its emissions, but I put another Chinese problem here, in this case in Portugal: who privatized EDP, a strategic company to think about the energy system? It was the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, I salute you for this conversion, but it must be more consistent in votes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u31	Mr João Miguel Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the Socialist Party is well aware of the importance and urgency of meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement, an extremely ambitious but absolutely necessary challenge. We are in a real global climate crisis and, as UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said, this was a crisis created by us and we will have to solve it. We bear in mind the importance that this Conference of the Parties in Madrid has for the future of the planet as we know it. But we also know that not all countries are making the effort to achieve this joint outcome. It is urgent that all set goals and implement the measures necessary to combat the worsening and reverse the situation, so that the reduction of emissions is effective and the impacts are time-consumingly minimized, for the benefit of the planet and the quality of life of younger generations, as the young activist Greta Thunberg has remembered. Portugal has done its work and honored the commitment it has made, but has gone further, influencing and defending the need of all parties to fulfil their duty to reduce atmospheric emissions. It is undeniable for all that this government is deeply committed and committed to the challenge of climate change, starting from the outset with its organic nature, with the creation of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. Mr President, we all know the ways in which the Bloc doesn't want to go. But tell us first: where does the Block intend to go? What action does the Block intend to take? The Socialist Party well knows that if we want to meet the goals of carbon neutrality in 2050, we must be more ambitious and the PS government has been defending more ambition in the 2030 targets. As our Prime Minister said at COP25, we know that the choice is not between growth and preservation of the environment and that it is precisely in the context of greater economic development that we will more easily achieve carbon neutrality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u33	To reply, you have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u34	Mr President, Mr João Nicolau, I should like to tell you that I am very pleased to answer the questions about the position of the Left Block, insofar as it is known and obvious. For example, when we talk about the goals for the closure of coal power stations, we recognize that it was us who were led by the Government of the Socialist Party, who wanted them to continue in operation for more years and who has now reverted to their position. In fact, I welcome the letter which Mr. Environment Minister sent to Greta Thunberg, but should also explain there, for example, that he is so motivated in the fight against climate change that he will revoke concessions for the authorisation of the operation of gas in Bajouca or, from which Mr. Deputies is in the West in Aljubarrota. These are proposals from the Left Block that the PS and the Government would do well to follow. But the other fundamental aspect, if we have to rethink our economy and our mobility, is investment in rail. from the left block, we presented here a national railway plan. How did the Socialist Party vote? He voted against. Now, our proposal is known. The proposal of the Socialist Party and of the Government, which we began to know and do not like it, is the lack of investment in the railway and the continued postponement of the planned investments, which, by themselves, are already beyond what we needed to have real mobility. And the lack of investment in metropolitan public transport risks putting on the ground a fundamental promise for the lives of families, which is the reduction of the cost of passes. But now, if you really want to talk about mobility, we are going to discuss the 40% increase in aviation emissions that the Socialist Party's and the Government's mobility proposal envisages with the new airport. I think we have to move from letter to practice, because good intentions, we know, are Greta Thunberg's mail full. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u35	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the honourable Member, more than speak of the COP, came to speak of the circus which was mounted yesterday in Portugal, with the reception to an activist by which you have great admiration. It has forgotten to talk about what is actually the content of the COP or the responsibilities of the Left Block Parliamentary Group in national policy and the proposals it should make to contribute somehow to what it says to defend. Between being on the side of the solutions or on the side of the pamphlets, you prefer, as always, to be on the side of the pamphlets and of the total void of ideas, of the slogans proclaimed. And there they went, with your lithium cell phones, taking pictures at reception. They went through this city outside, which is the most polluted city and where mobility has worse indicators, content and happy to the port,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u37	Go away!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u38	...and then, when you arrived at the Assembly, you were posted there on your computers, on social networks, which are the product of capitalism and globalization that you diabolize and that you think you have to end up so that the environment is actually protected. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Finally, there they used all the mechanisms of capitalism to defend what they say is their cause. The problem is that none of this responds to the problems, and we, who are on the side of the solutions... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] There you go, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, I doubt you can answer, but the question remains for you too. On decarbonisation of electricity, energy transition and renewables, have you already changed your position on water and wind use or are you still negating the renewable energy essential for this energy transition? Who's a negationist? Is it or not who refuses to invest in the exploitation of water and wind resources that enable us to make this energy transition?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u39	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, in the matter of mobility, will you, in the next State budget, be on the side of the government, which will again cut into rail investment, or will you finally take consequences from the speech you make? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u41	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u42	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, speaking in void, I believe that one could remember here the photographs that the still leader of the CDS was taking at the door of Parliament on the day of the first student climate strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u43	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u44	So in the middle of the year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u45	It's the pamphlet! He says it's the pamphlet! It was the pamphlet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u46	... the CDS has since considered a historic day the student climate strike, which served for the selfies of the CDS leader, to come and give parliamentary rallies to the students...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u47	Rallettes is with the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u48	... that they miss classes because they require the rulers to respond to them for their future. on our part, we're exactly the same place we were. So,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u49	It's true! They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u50	...you can criticize but coherence is here, it's not on your side. But I'm gonna try to take some of the phrases I said seriously. When you ask us what is our plan for the energy sovereignty of the country, to ensure greater decentralized production, and how do we compare this with the production of renewable energy, I begin by giving you a very simple answer: it is to deprivetize EDP, which is only the largest energy group in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u51	And energy sources change how? And where does the energy come from?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u52	It is to ensure that REN ( National Energy Networks, SGPS, S.A ) is also held by the State. I do not know whether you know, but who is currently deciding on the fate of electricity production is the REN, which Mr delivered to a foreign power.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u53	What about primary sources? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u54	And the honourable Member has delivered the largest electricity producer in our economy to another foreign power. Therefore, from this point of view, what we know is that on the CDS side, what is intended is to have as a consultant the Chinese government for the management of electricity in our country. Not us! We are proud, for example, in the fight against energy income that has been achieved with the results of the Commission of Inquiry, which the CDS voted against because they are against EDP's profits despite being fundamental to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u55	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u56	We are in favour of public investment which guarantees a decentralized production of energy, taking advantage of, for example, the solar, but also the local wind, but we are against an idea that, with more reduction of the space for water absorption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u57	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u58	...we're going to have a climate change handle. It's the opposite. What we know is that capitalism, even with green brushes, as the honourable Member has come to defend, does not solve the problem. If we ask ourselves what we stand for COP25, I will say that we do not have in the green capitalism of the financial market for carbon licences the outcome of a fundamental climate crisis. This is because, if so, we know that we are failing the fundamental objective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u59	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members will agree that it is necessary to withdraw from the role of nature and biodiversity protection measures and not to allow natural resources to continue to be exploited as if they were not finite, in the name of profit only for some. It is urgent that environmental values overlap with the interests of big business and that concerns about environmental issues, so well written in pump speeches and circumstances and on pages of plans, suggestions and solutions, be applied on a daily basis. More than 20 years ago, the Greens talked about global warming and climate change here in Parliament, and we warned that steps should be taken to ensure that Portugal would comply with the Kyoto Protocol and that an early fight against climate change would begin. In the present, COP25 will meet, in the coming days, in Spain, political leaders, climate-related diplomats, specialists and activists to discuss climate change under an increasing sense of urgency, again gathered to align themselves with more proposals, more solutions, more goals. However, we hope that with regard to Portugal's commitment to decarbonisation of the economy by 2050, initiatives will not begin in 2049. You won't agree, sir? Another question, Mr President, has to do with what is the most important decarbonisation measure in Portugal in recent years: the reduction of cost and the scope of the intermodal social pass. It is worth little talking about the environment and then creating difficulties in the implementation of this measure, not investing in ships, trains, buses and indeed extending it to the whole country. The question I put to you, Mr, is if you do not consider that the immediate measure to be taken is to invest decisively in public transport. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u61	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u62	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, I follow the points you have made and I will explain why. I developed this in the initial intervention, but time did not allow it to deepen as it wished. So let me answer now by saying that if we really want to fight climate change, it is essential to rethink the mobility model. It was therefore good to bring a very large number of people, at home of tens of thousands, to public transport with the cost reduction programme of the pass, which is fundamental. Now, what we cannot have, in this movement for inclusion in public transport, is people making faces with an ineffective network, with transports that do not arrive in time and hours and do not respond to their needs. From that point of view, the fundamental problem here is political will and public investment. Young people say, and rightly, that there is no lack of money to save banks, but when it touches the climate it always stays behind; if the climate were a bank it would have already been saved. This phrase perfectly illustrates reality! We believe that this public investment is essential to ensure that Portugal fulfils the goals it is forcing itself. We also know that ambition is not a whim, ambition is a requirement, because the goals that Portugal has set, that Europe has planned or that on a global scale are being traced are insufficient, that is what the IPCC tells us and now also the European Environment Agency. So ambition is not a choice right now; it is an obligation, because otherwise we will deal with a situationism that wants to keep the interests of a few at the expense of the entire planet's environment. Now, if we are facing an economy that is at war with the environment, then we have to choose which side we are on. on the side of the Left Block, this choice is unequivocal: we are on the side of the environment and demand another economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u63	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the eve of another COP, it seems to us relevant to the question of what role Portugal will play in the discussion of how to solve or mitigate the major environmental and environmental problems we live in. The principle of common but differentiated responsibility between industrialized and developing countries has not been fully assumed; instead, it has chosen not to address the issue of fundamental, systemic, production and economic organization and to jump into vacuum using market instruments such as carbon trade, a measure not only ineffective as perverse. For the PCP - and we're asking if you guys are. Members follow us what the ambition of Portugal in this COP is to have a policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions based on shared responsibilities, but distinct on the basis of a defined and UN-accompanied regulation to achieve the objectives outlined, together with the progressive transition to low carbon technologies and the right to development of a number of countries whose share of responsibility is quite different. We also question the idea that Portugal should defend trade policies in the field of the European Union based on complementarity rather than on competition between productions, producers and countries. Would it not be time to move forward to an economic organization that meets the needs of each country and begin to reverse the deregulation and liberalisation that has put us in this situation? What role does the World Trade Organization play? Should it not be conditional on the interests of peoples, particularly in combating climate change? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u65	The CFP cannot fail to raise a question about the arrival of the Israeli Prime Minister to Portugal for a meeting with Mike Pompeu on the pretext of Iran, which will once again be devoted to coordinating destabilization actions in the Middle East. We cannot ignore the scandalous situation in which Portugal is preparing to be once again Cicerone in the war script, as it was with Iraq. In fact, I would like to remind Mr Hugo Carvalho that war destroys countries, destroys lives, but also destroys the environment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u67	We also ask whether the honourable Members. Members agree with us and if it is not scandalous Portugal lends itself to this role, even more so having approved a vote just a week ago to condemn the violations of international law perpetuated by Israel. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u68	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u69	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, I note that there is convergence with regard to the concerns that may arise from COP25 and the idea that, now, the solution for climate change is a new market for climate change, delivering to the financial system this game in which rich countries always act as polluter/payer, because they can pay, and poor countries are always looking for migalhas to, from the point of view of the economic structure, beyond their delay, be now also the form of rich countries remaining as polluters. We consider it to be a mistake if the COP is in this sense, and we hope that this does not happen. But the honourable Member has mentioned - and let me go on this - the coming of the Israeli Prime Minister and I believe that, as I said in my initial speech, it is a shame for our Fathers, because the United Kingdom, and well, has rejected being a cycerone of a summit from which the agenda is already known, which is to be taken directly into account against any solution from two states, as the UN proposes, against resolutions adopted by the United Nations and therefore in violation of international law. It is absolutely unacceptable Portugal lends itself to this photograph! Then, giving a state visit to a recognizedly corrupt politician, recognized as a war criminal, recognized as a non-free person in a very wide range of countries, giving such an agreement by the Portuguese Government, is,... [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u70	... from our incomprehensible point of view, even more at a time when the one who is in charge of the United Nations is Antonio Guterres. Now, I believe that if this mandate is respected, the Socialist Party will still have much to align internally to reach some kind of conclusion. From this point of view, it is a serious mistake, even to the way Portugal has internationally declared itself to be a country that upholds human rights and international law. From that point of view, I believe that the Government is rendering a bad service to Portugal today and also to Portugal tomorrow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u71	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u72	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to congratulate you on the two issues you have brought today in your political statement. As far as combating climate change is concerned, I would like to ask you, from now on, what does the Government's Left Block think of the government's action in adapting Portugal to climate change. More specifically in the area of water resources, what do you think of the Left Block of the Government's failure to comply with the Albufeira Convention? Article 16. that of the Albufeira Convention states that the parties define for each river basin the flow system necessary to ensure the good state of the waters and current and predictable uses. What does the Left Block think of the fact that over the past 20 years the tails have not been defined and continue to apply the rules laid down in the protocol, of an annual nature, continuing to use the provisional rules of the Protocol annexed to the Convention, those rules which define that, in severe drought, the minimum annual flows do not apply? How convenient it is for Spain! With regard to the visit of Benjamin Netanyahu to Portugal, we stress our agreement with the vast majority of the statements made here concerning the policies pursued by Israel. However, we stress that for the NAP to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict there is a need to reactivate the Oslo Protocol, the return to the 1967 borders, without prejudice to other agreements between the parties, the political status of neutrality of Jerusalem, until a peaceful political solution is negotiated between the parties, and the ratification by the State of Israel of the non-nuclear proliferation treaty. However, Mr President, when Portugal's position in international relations vis-à-vis countries that violate human rights, I would like to ask about a case which has some connections and which shames our country. The Assembly of the Republic has for many years been a parliamentary group of friends with the Chinese parliament, despite the resolution that regulates these groups demanding as a mandatory requirement the existence of plural and freely elected parliaments. For the NAP, it does not make sense that the Assembly of the Republic legitimate as democratic and plural the parliament of a country with an autocratic and totalitarian regime. This proposal was rejected by PS, PSD and PCP yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, we will return to the Conference of Leaders, and I would like to know how the Left Block is positioned on the existence of a parliamentary group of friends with a totalitarian country such as China, where there is no democratic plurality. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u73	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u74	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I will answer the third question very directly: we are against. We have voted in the past and will now vote against again. There is no doubt as to which side the Left Block is placed in the defence of human rights. That is exactly why we do not want to stop from today when Benjamim Netanyahu visits our country, to record how our government is failing to defend these human rights, how it is failing to defend the UN resolutions and how it is once again to remain in a photograph of the prenunciation of war and the construction of an inequality in that region, which will only bring more problems in the future and more deaths. For us, it is no less important how we recognise Netanyahu : corrupt, war criminal and is promoting, in its design of internal policies, the creation of a apartheid. But, Mr President, on COP25, there is an absence in your question on which I would like to be clarified when I have time and it does not have to be today, because I know that this is going to be a deeper debate. I am referring to the proposal to create a carbon market. We believe that the response to climate change is not with more markets, that is, it is not with the idea that, now, green capitalism will solve the problems that capitalism has not solved and with the idea, through this carbon market creation, the polluter/payer on a global scale, that is, the idea that rich countries can pollute since they pay poor countries to poor countries do not pollute. This we do not accept and this subject that brought here the debate is the fundamental of COP25. We have already had several international initiatives together, including in the adoption of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 63 / 2019 on the Albufeira Convention, which you mentioned here, and there is no doubt as to how we voted. We did it exactly as the NAP, i.e. in favour of the conclusion of the Albufeira Convention and the review of such caudals to ensure that what exists today is not repeated monthly or three months in three months. But I have not heard the honourable Member talk about the fundamental issue of COP25, and therefore the question I leave in the air - and I know that he will not answer but he has a political statement here and he can do so - is whether, in the same way that we had together in the defence of the Albufeira Convention, in the revision and in the guarantee that the Tejo caudaals have a stability to guarantee life in that river, as we were together in the fight against climate change, now the PAN will be with the Left Block in condemning the carbon market, which seems to be the great bad idea that will result from the Madrid COP 25. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u75	I believe that this is one of the fundamental issues on environmental issues and, from this point of view, my question is whether or not we are allies in this struggle. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u76	Let's move on to the second political statement. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, on 3 December, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities was celebrated. A day that marks the struggle waged every day by people with disabilities and their families, a day that can be a reflection on the reality experienced by people with disabilities, their problems, needs and aspirations, cannot mean that during the rest of the year the debate and the struggle for solutions and answers disappear. If in the past legislation were taken important steps for the lives of people with disabilities, such as the creation of the PSI (social benefit for inclusion) or the Independent Life Support Model, the truth is that these steps were short for what is yet to be done. The reality of the overwhelming majority of people with disabilities continues to be marked by limitation and denial of rights. Rights which, provided for in different national and international legal instruments, are slow to jump from the role of people with disabilities and their families to their daily lives. It is therefore important to ensure access to employment with rights, because people with disabilities are one of the social groups that suffers the most violent consequences of unemployment, precariousness, being one of the most affected by poverty and social exclusion. It is important to ensure access to all types and levels of vocational training available, and these should correspond to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and competences for inclusion in active life. It is important to ensure access to a free, quality and inclusive public education that, at all levels of education, has the necessary conditions — human, material and pedagogical means — to meet the right to education for children and young people with special needs. It is important that the social protection of people with disabilities is a reality according to their specific needs and if the PSI could and should have been an opportunity to extend this social protection, the truth is that its scope is short, both in size and in values. The difficulties that persist in access to health care, medicines, therapies essential to monitoring and rehabilitation, but also with regard to access to technical aid or support products, so necessary for autonomy, for well-being, for the comfort of people with disabilities, important for their social inclusion, must be eliminated. It is important to ensure mobility in physical spaces, breaking down architectural barriers that persist and prevent movement in spaces and in the public way. It has for more than three decades the first legislation produced in our country on the elimination of architectural barriers and, even today, people with disabilities are still being prevented from accessing many public buildings and circulating in their cities, communities. It is also important that the right to information and communication be met in different forms and supports. More than 20 years after the Portuguese gestal language was consecrated in the Constitution, communication barriers remain—for example, the lack of gestal-language interpreters in many public services or better conditions of television accessibility for deaf people—which limit and prevent access to public services and information. Public and collective transport must be for everyone and the circulating material, stations and stops should be accessible to people with disabilities, ending scandalous discrimination. It is important for the injured workers to have access to a more fair repair of the accident of suffering work, better social protection, as well as better conditions for monitoring the return to work. It is important to comply with the right to housing, to ensure equal conditions in access to culture, both in creation and in cultural use, and also to ensure equal conditions in access to sport, not only in the practice of paralympic sport, but in the right to sport in communities where people with disabilities live, in schools that attend, as well as participation in social and political life. In all the steps taken, the involvement of people with disabilities and their representative organisations is essential. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has a vast heritage of intervention, for many years, of proposal and construction of a path to raise the living conditions of persons with disabilities and to defend their rights. We were the first party to intervene in the Assembly of the Republic on independent life. Among many others, we have put forward proposals for the enhancement of vocational training for disabled people, for the elimination of architectural barriers, for a path for the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes, for the creation of a bag of gestal-language interpreters for public services and for the enhancement of Portuguese gestual language. We asked for better conditions for access to social benefits for the inclusion of human, material and pedagogical resources in public school and in public higher education, we put forward proposals for better social protection for workers injured at work and, already in this Parliament, we insist on the freeness of the multi-use attestation and on the recognition of all specific documents and legal certifications for the care of inclusion counters, for access to other public services, as well as for the granting of the expected support and benefits for people with disabilities. Recalling the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we reaffirm our commitment to intervene in the implementation of public policies that ensure, not only in words, but with concrete measures, the elimination of all forms of discrimination and inequality, which will be possible only with the full exercise of rights. We welcome the struggle of people with disabilities, their organisations to defend their rights, and we remember the need for them to be more heard, valued and supported. The CFP will continue to present solutions and to point out ways to ensure that what is enshrined in many documents is a reality in the lives of people with disabilities every day and not just one day a year. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u78	Mrs Diana Ferreira, Mrs Ferreira, has written to ask for clarification, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u79	Mr President, I am going to reply together to the first two Members. Members and then the third.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u80	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate you on your very timely and very successful political statement, from our point of view, which you have just made. Indeed, the celebration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities has, unfortunately, less to celebrate and more to mark in terms of an emptiness that is still to be filled in the substance of effective rights for people with disabilities. This — we certainly converge — will only be done with the full protagonistism of the disabled, their movements, their representative associations, giving the person who is, after all, the great principle guiding the struggles of the disabled: « Nothing about us without us». It is a certain principle that must be remembered here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u83	You've got Mrs. Deputy all right! Steps have been taken — it would not be so — we have been taking steps, from a legislative point of view and from a public policy point of view, in order to strengthen the legal protection or recognition of the rights of these people. But there are many barriers that continue to be crossed in the daily lives of people with disabilities: architectural barriers—and there are so many remaining ones, starting with the state buildings, and the government's programme, which is subsequently announced and put into practice, continues to be stuck and is unable to resolve the issue; economic barriers, with a social benefit for inclusion too short to satisfy the dignity of these people; bureaucratic barriers, with the knowledge of the reality of supporting products which, although they are guaranteed to these people, do not actually arrive in good time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u84	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u85	Mr. President, I end with a reference. The Left Block, yesterday, announced a proposal to anticipate the retirement age for people with disabilities. It is a measure of justice, it is a measure of decency towards these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u86	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u87	The question is, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Diana Ferreira, if we can count on the support of the CFP for this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u88	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Diana Ferreira on bringing this issue to plenary, because it is a way of signaling the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, which took place yesterday. The Socialist Party has taken a path in this last legislature to respond to the needs of families and people with disabilities. Certainly, this path does not remain here and there is already a commitment to continue, maintaining the course of the last legislation. I cannot help but recall and reaffirm that over the past four years there have been important advances in support of people with disabilities, with the new social protection for inclusion that now supports more than 100 000 people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u90	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u91	... of which 95 % as a basic component, i.e. €273, €39, the nearly 14 000 beneficiaries who accumulate with the poverty reduction supplement and the 17 000 disabled persons who accumulate with the receipt at work. It is also important to say that today there is an extended set of PSI holders who have not received any support. This benefit allowed increases of 25 to 34 % in relation to the monthly life support and has also been extended now for children and young people. In addition, for the promotion and inclusion of people with disabilities, we have 71 counters and a model that ensures access to employment for these people. The question I put here is the following: Mrs Deputy, whether or not it is considered that progress has been made in this latter Parliament, and that the socialist Government's design is an increase in the social protection of persons with disabilities or with disabilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u93	... stimulating their autonomy and full participation in society, in combating poverty situations and in eliminating barriers? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u94	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u95	Mr President, I should like to thank Mr José Manuel Pureza and also Mrs Marta Freitas for the questions they have raised here and for the comments they have made on this subject. Mr José Manuel Pureza, of course, we argue that all steps taken, that all policies that are decided, that all measures taken in this area should involve people with disabilities, their representative organisations, as we have said in our political statement. In fact, it was also the organized struggle of people with disabilities who conquered a set of rights that today are formed in different legal diplomas, but that would not have taken place had it not been this struggle developed for several years by people with disabilities, by their associations, by their representative organisations. We are sure that it will also be the continuation of this struggle that will allow for further progress. The CFP will be here to present proposals, but we also know that, from the point of view of the legal framework we have, there are good measures, there are positive laws, but they are not put into practice by the executive power, in fact, by the various governments that have passed through our country. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities itself, which the Portuguese State has ratified, binds all Governments which have moved here to take action towards their compliance. It is a fact that several governments — the PSD, the CDS, and the PS — have passed here and that many of the rights of this Convention are still to be met, as Article 71 is to be fully complied with. that of our Constitution of the Republic, which also protects the rights of persons with disabilities. Mrs Marta Freitas, of course, we recognized and said that there have been significant advances in the lives of people with disabilities in the last legislation, particularly with the creation of social benefit for inclusion and also of the model of support for independent life. Mrs Deputy, you mentioned here the 100 000 beneficiaries of social benefit for inclusion, but we refer to the many who remain outside. If the proposals presented here by the CFP had been adopted, extending the scope of social benefit for inclusion, this would have meant for many people with disabilities better living conditions and better social protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u97	We proposed that people who had a disability of less than 60 %, but who were in a particularly disabling situation, might have their status assessed for the allocation of social benefits. As we proposed that anyone who had acquired a disability after 55 years of age, who had proved that it did not result from common degenerative processes or from processes associated with normal aging, could also have their situation considered for the allocation of this social benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u99	What is a fact is that with the votes of the PS, with the votes of the PSD and the CDS, these proposals have not been approved and this means less social protection for thousands of people with disabilities in our country, but should also be entitled to it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u100	For clarifications, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the CFP brings to the debate a matter of greatest importance, an important issue which concerns the Democratic Social Party and which, on our part, deserves the greatest attention. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to extend a special greeting to all persons with disabilities, since yesterday the International Day of Persons with Disabilities was marked. For us, PSD Parliamentary Group, the social state should create public policies capable of ensuring full inclusion of all people and in particular promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities. In addition, in the previous legislation, the PSD Parliamentary Group has delivered and has approved several projects for the inclusion of people with disabilities. We must not forget that many of them are people in need of support for the most basic daily tasks, people in need of support 24 hours and therefore deserve all our commitment and respect. There is a political consensus in the Portuguese Parliament that has not been properly exploited. We are aware that there is still a long way to go in this area, certainly a path that calls us all to the importance of this matter. Mrs Diana Ferreira, 12 days from the delivery of the State budget by 2020, it is important to know what the CFP will do. Will the CFP highlight its concerns and include in the State budget what it proposes and defends today in this debate? Or is it going to take the same position over the last four years, i.e. to approve the State budget for 2020 and thus make a table of what its ideologies and principles are? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u102	You have the floor to answer Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u103	Mr President, Mrs Helga Correia, I would like to congratulate you, thank you for the questions you have raised and also tell you, from now on, that the CFP, even speaking in the budget of the State, has presented a number of proposals on this matter. I referred here to the proposal on the extension of social benefits for inclusion, which guarantees more protection for people with disabilities, and the PSD vote helped it to be rejected, but could also refer to the proposal that the CFP presented, within the State budget, for the evaluation of conditions for access to the reform of persons with disabilities, considering the specificities that have to be effectively reflected in relation to its situation, and the PSD vote also contributed to its rejection. I can also recall here, Mrs Deputies, that the CFP, still at the state budget, presented the exemption from legal costs for the workers who were injured in the work, and the PSD, with its vote, also helped to reject it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u105	I could also recall the PSD vote in relation to the proposal for free of charge for the multi-use of disability, which, together with that of the PS and the CDS, helped to reject it, as they rejected all the proposals that would improve the lives of people with disabilities, in particular, and not only in words, as the honourable Member said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u107	It is that the words spoken by Mrs Deputy, on behalf of the PSD, must correspond to concrete actions and what the PSD, in fact, showed, when it was in the last government, was the cut in social benefits for people with disabilities, the withdrawal of the special education allowance to children and young people with disabilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u109	... sending for requalification of disabled public administration workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u110	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u111	Therefore, about the correspondence between words and practice, regarding PSD, we are effectively discussed: they are not on the side of defending the rights of people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u112	For a political statement on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Saturday, before the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, Mr. Prime Minister announced that the election of coordinating committees is moving forward at the beginning of 2020 to, and I quote, « create in the country the necessary confidence for the following steps ». And he also said: "This is not the step that everyone wants, but it is what must be given to create in the country the necessary confidence for the next steps." Let's talk straight! In translation, what the government thinks should be done and what the government wants to move forward is regionalisation, and it believes that the best way to do so is to hide behind the scenes, starting with this election of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees ). This election is a first step, yes, towards regionalisation. However, this Parliament's answer must only be one: regionalisation, preceded only by a referendum. It is precisely at this first step that this process can, must and must be stopped. It is worth noting that, at this first step — the indirect election of the CCDRs — several other steps will be taken, as it is, in fact, expressly assumed by the Prime Minister himself, until the final step of regionalisation. And all this will be done without asking the Portuguese, who have already spoken negatively, in referendum, on the issue of regionalization, without reforming the central state and without any understanding of how the new regional machinery is going to be financed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this matter is very serious, it cannot be treated as if it were an administrative intent and cannot be the target of the convivial silence of Parliament or of parties. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is clear that, following the indirect election of committees for coordination by the authorities, transforming technical bodies into political bodies, the following step will be followed, which is that of their democratic supervision. This is how regional parliaments, regional Members and their advisors will be born. Next, in the next step, there will be a direct election and its transformation into regions. These are the next steps that the Prime Minister is planning. It is ironic that a Prime Minister and a government that have created the largest central state of all time, and the largest central government of all time, with 70 members, have now proposed, as a fight against centralism, the creation of five regional governments with their respective regional parliaments. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And all this is done to disguise the fact that decentralization, which is the only step with which everyone agrees, is the only thing that must be done. Let's go somewhere. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic clearly states that the specific institution of the regions depends on the law provided for in the preceding article and on the favourable vote expressed by the majority of voters who have given themselves in direct consultation, nationally and in relation to each regional area. In other words, for regionalization, there must be a referendum. More: there has already been a referendum in Portugal and the response of the Portuguese was 'no' to regionalisation. It is not acceptable for the Government to replace the 'no' of the Portuguese by a rather clandestine 'yes', made of disguised steps and pressures of autarchs. If the government wants to take the step of regionalisation, then say it clearly and propose a referendum. Let us be clear: we are in favour of decentralization of competence, we are against duplication of competence; we are in favour of a more agile state, we are against an increasingly bureaucratic and complex state;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u115	... we are in favour of a power closer to the citizens, we are against the multiplication of regional governments, structures, machinery and counsellors, made in the image and likeness of this government, the greatest ever, which, for example, causes its multiplication across several regions. There are several public competences of the State which can be exercised more effectively, faster and more competently by those closest to the citizens. For this to be well done, it is necessary for the central State to transfer these competences to the municipalities, with the resources that are currently, as is obvious, being used in them. But it is here that the government has failed desperately: after announcing decentralization as the greatest reform ever, in reality, it wanted to transfer only the maintenance skills, keeping the decision skills for itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u117	Nor was he able to accompany the necessary resources, nor was he even able to account for how much he spent exercising those powers until today. This has happened because the government has no courage to look at the structure of the central State and to explain that services, bodies and institutes will no longer make sense, because they will simply no longer have competence. That is what the government has not done. This is what I have never wanted to do, and that is what has failed to decentralization. The result was a law made in a hurry, criticized by many autarchs and with almost all of them explaining that they will not have money to exercise the skills they are being assigned to them. On the other hand, the central state seems to have ceased to have certain skills, but it continues to have exactly the same machine and to spend the same money. What is the solution that the government has set for this imbroglio that it has created? As you have not been able to decentralise, you will now move forward with regionalization, very thin and something hidden, to avoid having to ask for the opinion of the Portuguese, who have already refused it in the polls. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has the oldest borders in Europe and is unaware of regional and linguistic tensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u118	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u119	Of course, Mr. President. I'll finish. We have 900 years of history that cannot be questioned, much less in a light and unassumed manner. We have a problem of centralism that will certainly not be solved with a triplicate of competences...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u120	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u121	Of course, Mr. President. I'll finish. As I was saying, we have a problem of centralism which will certainly not be solved by a triplicate of competences and the proliferation of political positions, adding to our excessive central state five more regional governments and five regional parliaments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u122	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u123	If the government wants to follow this path, we tell it here: only by referendum! Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President, much less, in spite of everything, than I have seen in the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u124	I do not know how many requests for clarification will be made to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, with the opportunity to use much more time, but I have the floor to that end, Mr António Gameiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u125	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the CDS came here to make this political statement and we do not know well to disguise what. Perhaps there is something else you need to say to the Portuguese, because the honourable Member has just made a fictional intervention of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the honourable Member could bring here a fiction that had some adherence to reality, which was supported by the Government Programme, which was supported by any attitude of the Socialist Party, from a legislative point of view, in order to be able to shape what he said here. It is simply an illusory fictionism, Mrs Deputies, because regionalisation is not under debate in this Parliament or in the country. Does the honourable Member question whether the indirect election of the CCDRs might be under discussion today? Oh, my God! You don't know the government program? Oh, my God! I therefore believe that we are clear about other steps, which are only those of the fiction of the head of the honourable Member, because there is no adherence to any PS initiative that says that we are going to do a regionalization headed, that there will be regionalization without reference or that there will be anything else. Mr Prime Minister has already announced here, in a reply to Mrs Deputy, in her fortnight debate, that regionalisation is not under discussion and that it will not be the intention of the Government to present to this House any legislative initiative on regionalisation. It was Mr. Prime Minister who underlined you here. The honourable Member also addressed the issue of decentralization. The honourable Member does not know that more than two thirds of the municipalities joined decentralization, accepting at least one of the competences...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u126	At least one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u127	... and that more than 50 % received more than 50 % of the skills? Oh, my God! You don't know this, do you? Does the honourable Member, by chance, dispute the relocation of public services to the interior territories? Oh, my God! It's just that Mrs. Deputy, in the port, makes speeches...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u128	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u129	Mr. President, I will finish. As I was saying, Mrs Deputy, in Porto, makes speeches in favour of setting more services in the territory, but here it is against regionalization, it is against decentralization and against the delivery of competences to these services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u130	I don't know how the honourable Member wants to respond. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u131	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u132	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u133	Mr President, Mr António Gameiro, first of all, I would like to thank you and tell you that the matter is serious and advises some calm, especially when someone, particularly me, is accused of defending one thing here and another in port. I said here that it was against regionalization without referendum and I say in Porto that I am against regionalization without referendum. And I say that the decentralization that you have made was an absolute failure and I say that the INFARMED process is an absolute shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u134	We're waiting for your contributions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u135	You come here to talk about the port, but if I were a party like the Socialist Party, who said what I said about the INFARMED in the port, I would even be ashamed to talk about that land. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u136	But, Mr, regionalisation is a very different subject from decentralization and it is not by chance that it arises now. As for the words of Mr Prime Minister, who said that this was not the step that everyone longed for but that is what must already be given to create in the country the necessary confidence for the following steps was Mr Prime Minister, it was not me, Mr Member. Therefore, what the PS has to decide, once and for all, is whether or not it wants regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u137	Yes, but it's not in this legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u138	If you don't want to, all right, things stay the way they are, and keep going.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u139	Want, want!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u140	Perhaps, this time, they can right the decentralisation that they have done so far wrong... Perhaps, I don't have to remember that an author, by chance of the PS, named Eduardo Vítor Rodrigues, President of the City Hall of Gaia, who is only the third municipality of the country, said of your decentralization, that it was a disaster and that you wanted to turn the city halls into jobs. Perhaps, honourable Member, and I understand you, your nervousness and outrage come from the degree of nonsense with which you have already been able to enter this process. Decentralisation, absolutely in favour; regionalization, proliferation of political positions, at the top and without a referendum, yes, I am against, and this does not make me less of the port or less of the North. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, very late. You now have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the PSD has always been with the Portuguese to ask the State to be able to place its functions in the hands of those who can perform them better, for the benefit of all, and therefore the PSD has always had a reformist view of the State, based on a decentralized public administration. in this context, Mrs Deputies, the PSD, as it has always been in the past, is available for any debate on state management and organisation models, provided that — and this is important — this debate is based on concrete proposals, which do not « put the car in front of the woods », which comply with the constitutional requirements, which do not correspond to partial solutions, which do not correspond to the solutions framed and which do not lead us to a country at two speeds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u144	The PSD is available for this debate, as I said, based on concrete proposals and not on announcements that are put in the drawer at the first opportunity and that serve only to prevent the real discussion from taking place or other discussions may take place. So I ask, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, if it is not exactly the case of what we have been talking about. It will not be possible for the government to have launched this discussion this weekend just to avoid the mention of structural reforms, which do not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u146	...to prevent the failure of the process of decentralization of competence from being mentioned, because the government has failed to speak to the autarchs? And is it not yet to prevent a government from being talked about that does not mean its own organization and distribution of functions and that ministers are pressuring each other in the public square, with regard to the next State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u147	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u148	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u149	And this will not be to avoid, finally, the slowdown in the economy, the increase in social inequalities, chaos — chaos! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u150	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u151	... that you live in public services, especially in health, education and public transport? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u152	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u153	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira for the questions he has put to me and to tell him about the debate on the organization and models of the State, which, having said that he was available for all the debates, I am available for some debates, I am not available for all the debates. In fact, I am not available for debates on the organization and model of the state that we have created a larger state, that we have created a more complex state and that we have more costs for taxpayers and higher taxes. For this debate, the CDS is not available and I think no one here should be available. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Interestingly, a very bad process of decentralization is leading us precisely to that. I am also not available for a debate on the organization of the State leading to an artificial division or creating problems, which do not exist, in an ancient nation state. Let us look at the rest of Europe and understand the problems we do not need!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u154	It's against, even with a referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u155	Secondly, I understand that Mr. Prime Minister speaks about this in order to cover up the huge failure of decentralization, for which the CDS has alerted from the outset. In fact, I have already been accused in this debate of not knowing the Government's programme, so that they would soon have remembered a question I myself asked on this chapter of the Government's programme to Mr Prime Minister. When I saw this issue in the Government Programme, I soon realized it. So we ask the Prime Minister: are we talking about the indirect election or is it going to advance towards regionalization? Now, when the Prime Minister, before the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities — and the autarchs talk a lot about regionalization — tells them that we are now going to make the indirect election and that this is not the right step for everyone to look forward to, but it is a first step to then create confidence to give the following, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we all talking about? Oh, my God! Clearly, we are talking about regionalization. And if we are talking about regionalization, the first step is not an indirect election, the first step is a referendum, it has to be a referendum, it can only be a referendum. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u156	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to make a few considerations on the subject of the debate on decentralization, regionalisation and transfer of competence. I begin with the reference you just made, stating that the CDS is not available for a larger State. We well know what the CDS is not available for. The mark of your governance—and here we are all reminded of the time of Minister Paulo Portas—, the famous State Reform Guide, provided for a minimal state and a massive, brutal attack, public services and social functions of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u158	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u159	There was virtually nothing reserved for the functions of the State. The aim was to deliver this set of public services to private groups so that they could, yes, negotiate on behalf of the Portuguese, on account of what are fundamental rights for all. Mrs Deputy, in fact, we have quite different views. By not following what has been announced by this government referring to the democratic legitimacy of the CCDRs, because, in practice, it is no regionalisation, in practice it does not solve any of the problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u160	But I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u161	... there is a fundamental question here: that which is, in fact, necessary to move forward towards regional development. We believe that there is a need to look at the administrative organization of the State, so that it responds to the problems of the people rather than to the interests of the economic groups, as you did during your governance. It must be an administrative organization of the State that responds to the interests of the people, in education, in health; that it combats asymmetries; that it combats desertification and depopulation; that it combats the closure of public services, which have so much happened within our country; that it actually values the rural world. The CDS brings here questions concerning this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u162	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u163	... but then, in particular, when it comes to taking steps to reverse this path that is affecting our country, the CDS puts itself on the other side and approves everything that is the opposite and has contributed to desertification and depopulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u164	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u165	So what we say today is that it is essential to move forward towards the creation of administrative regions. It is a design of our Constitution and is a fundamental element in eliminating asymmetries and territorial cohesion. Well, we understand the CDS isn't on that path. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u166	You have the floor to answer Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u167	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Paula Santos. Tell the honourable Member that we have quite different views. They are, in fact, very, very, very, very different,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u168	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u169	... until you realize from your words that, for you, public services are the major engine of development — it is the State and it is the creation of more public services and more public officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u170	That's not what we want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u171	I don't think so. I think the development engine of a country, a prosperous country, is the private initiative and the creation of private wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u172	We already know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u173	But one thing, perhaps, we will agree: in fact, this decentralization that the government has failed. And it failed loudly! This decentralization simply did not happen. What happened was the transfer of some maintenance skills to the authorities, without their money. And this happened for a reason that the PCP never says and will never say. This happened because the government does not have the courage to say that if there are services in the central state that no longer have competence, then they must be extinct in the central state and move on to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u174	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u175	That's what the PCP will never say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u176	There is an intermediate level that can be created!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u177	The CFP considers it absolutely natural that there is a service to exercise certain skills of education in the central State and, if those competences disappear, the service will continue there, it will be to charge more taxes for them to exist in some regions and still exist in the Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u178	There's an intermediate level!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u179	We have three levels of power to exercise the same powers, to pay three times more taxes and, in the field, to interfere with each other. The honourable Member thinks that this is the way to development. I think that this is the way that countries governed by parties like theirs: that of misery. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u180	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u181	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, your speech has already had a very positive aspect in this debate. Mr António Gameiro recently mentioned an important fact, saying that regionalisation is not being debated in this Parliament or in this country. I register, with the appropriate note, and I tell you that Mr. Prime Minister, in the previous Parliament, said that regionalization would go to the next legislature, so it is understood that the next legislature is exactly the present one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u182	We never know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u183	I shall record this with the appropriate note. I would like to remind you that in 2018, on a proposal from the PS and the PSD, the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, led by former Minister João Cravinho, has prepared a report and clearly defends the creation of administrative regions by direct election, saying that Portugal is a too centralist country, with no effective intermediate powers having supra-municipal competences. It suggests, in particular, the process of regionalisation, but this is another discussion. What I wanted to ask is the following: for what has this work been done? What steps are the following, taking into account the recommendations that have been made and the respect and consideration for whom has the report been drawn up? I wanted to say, on the other hand, that, unlike the view of the CDS on recent statements and initiatives taken by the PS, we believe that they are precisely contrary to regionalization. I recall, for example, what happened last weekend at the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, in which even the President of the Republic, in a manner of delivery and weighting, said that you can't "put the car in front of the woods" and recommended caution, because the electorate people could be unprepared to vote and even run the risk of seeing the referendum plummeted. Honestly, isn't that how democracy works? Oh, my God! Isn't that exactly what referendums are made or any other form of election? Oh, my God! We then saw Mr. Prime Minister, at the closing session, say exactly what he had just mentioned, i.e. the indirect election of the CCDRs and the increase in the competences of the CIM (intermunicipal communities). If we associate to this the process not of decentralization but of municipalization that is under way, it is clear that the intention is to extend regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u184	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u185	Yes, Mr President, if I may ask a question to the CDS: does Portugal agree to be a centralist country, including the most centralists in Europe?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u186	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u187	On the other hand, has the work prepared by the independent committee I referred to or not validated? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u188	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u189	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr José Cardoso and say that I absolutely agree that Portugal is one of the most centralist countries in Europe. And that is a serious problem for our development. That is why, when we often discussed decentralization here — which in fact was an agreement between PS and PSD in the past Parliament — the CDS warned that we are not doing a good decentralization and that this would pollute the whole process. And that's exactly what happened. What seems even more foolish to me is that this enormous failure of decentralization is, in all honesty, moving forward now towards a regionalization project not calling it that, beginning with an election of the CCDRs and moving forward, step by step — such "next steps" as Mr. Prime Minister speaks of — it seems that everyone is afraid to call things by names. The parties who want regionalisation, if they think that this is the best path to development, would like to propose the model and the competent referendum, because our Constitution says that regionalization with only referendums. And there has already been a referendum on regionalisation and the Portuguese have already said 'no'. Therefore, the parties who think that this is the way must propose a referendum and the government, if they think that this is the way, instead of saying "we will take a few steps now to take further steps" — not calling things right by names and walking almost to play it, step back, step forward — what has to do is very simple: that is to say what you want and propose the competent referendum. It's just this! Moreover, and on decentralization, yes, I have read the Commission's work. I do not agree with the work in some aspects, in others, but one thing I say to you — and now I would like to remind you of this — that, of the whole process of decentralization of competence, only 51 municipalities have accepted all the competences, the vast majority of municipalities have not accepted them. And even those who have accepted continue to complain so far, saying that the government is simply not able to tell them how much it spent exercising those powers. Therefore, this whole process is a huge mess and certainly it is not now, with new and indirect elections of committees, which are technical, that the problem will be solved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u190	We move on to the next political declaration, which is up to the Parliamentary Group of the NAP. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal was the first country in the world to declare its ambition to be neutral in carbon emissions in 2050. This is a cause for pride for all of us. In fact, we are at a critical moment in the history of humanity. If we do not win the challenge of limiting global warming to 2 degrees centigrade, in less than 80 years the world population will be reduced to about 10 %. in this scenario, tropical and subtropical areas within parallel 40 will be uninhabitable for humans. Mrs. Members, in Portugal, parallel 40 is in Figueira da Foz! Scientists tell us that, south of Figueira da Foz, Portugal will be uninhabitable! Changes in temperature and precipitation patterns will make agricultural activity impossible in extensive areas of the planet. The rise in sea level, between 20 and 40 meters, will sink coastal areas and, with them, much of our infrastructure. Yes, this is the scenario of scientists: the near extinction of the human species! Even if Portugal fulfils the most ambitious goals with regard to mitigation, decarbonizing the economy, we do not have the ability, by our size, to decide the path to the abyss we are going through. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in October this year, a concentration of 412 parts per million carbon dioxide was measured in the atmosphere. Every year we increase more than two parts per million. In view of the so-called effects of « climate self-food », such as permafrost, deflowering of Amazonia or thaw, which are not being accounted for by IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), we will not be able to exceed 430 parts per million to ensure that we do not exceed the barrier of the 2 centigrade degrees of global warming. This means that today we have less than nine years, at this rate of emissions, to ensure our survival on this planet. But, regardless of what we can do to reduce carbon emissions, it is in our hands to resolve adaptation to climate change. In view of this scenario, we ask: what is this government doing to adapt the country to the effects of climate change? It is not by chance said that Portugal will be one of the countries that will suffer the most effects of climate change. Portugal has an extensive coastal area that will disappear as the sea level increases. Already in the next decades there will be significant flooded areas in the Seixal, Barreiro, Almada, Vila Franca de Xira, Azambouja, estuary of Sado, Aveiro, Nazaré, Espinho, Viana do Castelo and on the coast of Algarvia. What has the government done to defend the populations that will be affected, in addition to downloading more sand on our beaches, are sand that costs money and that every year the sea leads? How does the Government intend to finance the future and inevitable relocation of coastal populations? Does the government know the number of people affected, the number of houses and the costs of resettlement? How is the government planning the planning of the territory? It is certainly not to insist on locating strategic infrastructures, such as the new Montijo airport, in areas that will be flooded! The slowing down of the South Atlantic current is already increasing the quantity and intensity of hurricanes and moving them north-east, i.e. to Europe. Portugal had this experience with Hurricane Leslie in 2018. This is a phenomenon that will repeat and intensify in our country. What is the government preparing to defend the population and infrastructure of this threat? The shortage of water will surely reach us more and more. According to the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), drought situations in Portugal have become more frequent since 2000 and the scenario should worsen as a result of climate change and the increase in frequency of extreme phenomena, with serious consequences on agriculture, energy and well-being of populations, and thus an urgent change of behaviour making good water management. What is the government doing to ensure responsible water management? It is certainly not to obey Spain, in view of the failure to comply with the Albufeira Convention, to allow the untiring expansion of the intensive olive tree and irrigation forest, to encourage intensive livestock production or to allow water to be disposed of in golf courses in regions where populations are supplied by autotanks. What plans does the Government have for a future agriculture resilient to the shortage of water and to a forest that is more resistant to fires? Plans, strategy strategies, finally, nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing we have to defend the citizens from the greatest threat to the history of humanity! The NAP presented, last Friday, a proposal for a basic climate law to ensure that Portugal adapts to climate change. It is a bill which provides that, for Portugal's adaptation to climate change, it will be handed over to the Assembly of the Republic, already in 2021, given the urgency, the sectoral plans of spatial planning, water resources, forests, agriculture, civil protection and health. The sectoral plans will be drawn up on a time horizon of 50 years to ensure climate coherence and will have concrete objectives for each five-year period, based on a risk atlas, which presupposes risk assessments in vulnerable areas, considering current and future climate scenarios. The independent committee for the assessment of compliance with the basic climate law shall consist of experts indicated by universities and non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment. This committee shall submit annually to the Assembly of the Republic a report on the enforcement of the law, which shall be publicly disclosed. Having approved the draft climate-based law proposed by the NAP, it will be possible, from 2022, finally, to act and defend Portugal from the terrible impacts of climate change. We're waiting, ladies. Members, let all representatives in the Assembly of the Republic join us and that the country can be defended of the challenge of our lives. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u192	Mr President, your political statement has led to four entries for requests for clarification. The honourable Member will inform the Bureau of how he wishes to respond to the four requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u193	Mr President, I will answer all together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u194	To make the first request for clarification, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u195	Mr President, Mr André Silva, we share a great deal of concern about climate change and the essential response to this challenge of humanity. This political convergence is essential in the days ahead, and therefore we want to question the NAP on concrete policies in this regard. The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will decide to establish a global carbon market, is taking place in Madrid. Article 6. it is the centre of the discussion in Madrid and, on this matter, you have not yet informed us what your position is, whether it is in favour or against the creation of this new global carbon market, where the richest companies and the richest countries can buy the right to pollute. This is the essential discussion in Madrid, this is the essential climate discussion of the moment. In the Left Block, we believe that we do not want to create a subterfuge for companies and the richest countries to fulfil their obligations to change their lives, to reduce carbon emissions. We do not want a new speculative market, which allows the wealthiest to escape their obligations and that the oil industry, the cement industry or the individual transport industry continue to make life as it has been. In saying the NAP's electoral programme that « the polluter-payer principle is an emergency and must be the north of all policies », we ask him to know whether he agrees with the « financing» of the climate response, whether he agrees with the current carbon licensing market at European level and whether he agrees with what is now being done in Madrid, which is the creation of a new global carbon market. The response to climate urgency requires concrete policies and green capitalism has brought us to the abyss. The market has brought us to the abyss and it will not take us away from it. Essential social policies are needed for equality and policies that take us out of the climate crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u196	The second request for clarification lies with Mrs Joana Lima of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u197	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I must begin by quoting the first sentence of his speech: « Portugal was the first country in the world to present the roadmap for carbon neutrality of 2050 ». Now, this says a lot about what the Socialist Party Government, the Government of the Republic, is doing for the environment and for the fight against climate change in our country. So, Mr President, there is one point we are converging here. Then, in his speech, there were two or three questions which, of course, we need to debate better to understand exactly what your commitment is, what your fight is, what your contribution is, so that we can then take the necessary, and how important, measures to combat climate change, as you said well. Without a doubt, the theme that has brought us today and its debate is of the most important today. One of the four priorities of the Socialist Party's government action is precisely that of combating climate change, which, of course, Mr Deputy, demonstrates how much the Socialist Party is committed to combating this scourge and to associating itself with the other banks so that we can make Portugal the country in the front line in combating these changes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To that end, Mr President, welcome the political debate. This is a debate which the Government of the Socialist Party has already begun, and for which you have also contributed. My question is this: is the honourable Member available to help the Socialist Party and the Government implement the measures required to continue at the forefront of the reforms in the fight against climate change? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u198	To make a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u199	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I begin by congratulating the NAP on bringing this topic so current and so expensive to the PSD, for which it has a very large history of intervention and extensive government and legislative action. Indeed, climate change is probably the greatest challenge facing mankind and our country is particularly exposed to it. There are two key vectors for climate action. On the one hand, the fight, which translates into reducing emissions and carbon capture, and on the other hand adaptation, because, in fact, the climate has already changed, it is already changing and the world is changing with it. Adaptation is essential not only to promote the fight against climate change, but also to make progress in this context in sectors as fundamental as agriculture or industry. In addition, we also need to promote environmentally responsible behaviors and the efficient use of resources, defend our territory, our shoreline, our soils and our water masses. In order to achieve all this, the truth is that we need sound and consistent policies, which promote this urgent adaptation, and not only targets for 2050 that are not measurable at any time and therefore fallible and potentially ineffective. This is an area in which we cannot fail. I'm sure we share this vision. What I ask you is if you do not think that the government could do much better in this field than you are currently doing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u200	The fourth request for clarification lies with Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u201	Mr President, Mr André Silva, will agree that the ecological struggle for a healthy environment and for living in harmony with nature is the struggle of all, which has to count on young people — as we are happy to see — but it also has to count on adults and older people, because the commitment to mitigating climate change must be of all generations. Therefore, we refuse the fight in defense of the environment as part of division between generations, between young and old. We cannot today attribute the blame for the degradation of the environment to those who were barefoot for school 40 or 50 years ago, wrote in ardosia and did not know what food waste was. The fight in defense of the planet is the struggle between those who defend sustainable production modes and those who exploit resources up to their purpose, to ensure the appropriation of wealth, regardless of the consequences for the environment, animals and the lives of men and women. We reject the fight to defend the environment as part of a counterposition between the peoples of Europe and the peoples of South or Asia, or anywhere else in the world. The question is that without meeting the basic needs of the populations, wherever they are, we will always have the acceptance of actions that are unacceptable to us. We accompany, greet and are present in the actions of young people in the defence of the environment, but The Greens, Mrs and Mrs. Members, today have not come to the fight against climate change and to mitigate its effects, now that some interests have decided to give it visibility. We were here when we talked about global warming. We have been here for decades talking and alerting for climate change in national and local authorities, but we believe that only with the conquest of social justice can we achieve environmental justice, which, increasingly, becomes the central understanding of all. There is an urgent need to change policies so that climate change does not continue this early. Don't you agree, sir? [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u202	To respond to the four requests for clarification, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions. Mr Nelson Peralta, I would like to say that, in fact, for us, there have to be consistent fiscal policies to deter those who are most polluting, but, responding directly to your question, in relation to what COP 25 will decide on the global carbon market, where companies and countries can buy emission permits to pollute, we do not revise ourselves and we are against financial compensation mechanisms for those who pollute. That is to say, we are not in favour of the current model of European emissions trading. These are two completely different questions. We are in favour of a clean development mechanism such as that — and we think that it is for this model that we should walk — that has been developed and implemented by the United Nations in the Kyoto Protocol, and that has, in essence, contributed to many emission reduction projects in less developed countries, also allowing the existence of very positive effects on those decisions. I would therefore like to say that, from this point of view, we follow your view and we are allies in this matter, but I would also like to leave the note that we will wait to see what developments in the negotiations are and what are the proposals that come up on the table before we can contest them. Mrs Joana Lima, Mr Bruno Coimbra, replying to both, I would say that Portugal was in fact the first country to announce the decarbonisation of the economy in 2050. That says a lot about our government and, as Mrs Lima points out, about her intentions, but, from our point of view, her intentions do not go beyond that, with regard to the subject of adaptation to climate change. Today, we have a National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy for 2020, which will be consolidated in concrete plans, and was approved in August 2019, the Climate Change Adaptation Action Programme, which aims to establish the sectoral action strategy for adaptation to climate change by 2030. But in the background, it's like putting sand on the beach. [[PS protests.]] from our point of view, the Action Programme for Adaptation to Climate Change only sins for having plans for adaptation to 10 years—as opposed to the plans to 50 years, which we are defending—without, in essence, taking into account the long-term climate scenarios, running the risk of being opting for actions that will not be effective in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u204	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u205	I will finish, Mr. President. In addition, all actions by the Government are, in our view, contrary to adaptation to climate change, such as approval of the location of strategic infrastructures in flood zones,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u206	... the promotion of agriculture and intensive livestock and the existence of golf courses in regions where populations are supplied by autotanks. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u207	We now move on to the political declaration of the Green Party. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With a view to promoting mobility, but also with the aim of promoting the fight against climate change, the Greens have been defending a set of measures to enhance and enhance collective transport. The improvement and expansion of the social pass, socially fair prices, increased supply, quality, comfort and safety of collective transport, the recruitment of the workers needed and the fight against privatization of the transport sector have been a priority of the Greens over the years. It is also in the fight against climate change that the numerous Green initiatives around the enhancement of rail transport, the potential it represents in the easy and rapid mobility of citizens, the mitigation of climate change and the fight against regional asymmetries, making the different regions of the country closer and more accessible. And today we realize that the Greens' efforts have not been in vain. It contributed effectively to the Government's understanding of the importance of investment in rail and for this House to wake up for climate change. An effort that has taken place since the last century and has led the Greens to present a legislative initiative at the beginning of this century in order to comply with the Kyoto Protocol and thereby contribute to combating climate change. A battle that, moreover, The Greens took outside the Assembly, with hundreds of initiatives, between street actions, conferences, bullyings and debates, and where the campaign Stop to Climate Change, launched in 2005, has been highlighted, and has travelled all the country's municipalities with secondary school, including the municipalities of the autonomous regions. We have come to thousands and thousands of young people, many of whom are confronted for the first time with the problem of climate change. And after so many years of fighting, we realize today the importance of this effort, not only because people are today aware of the threat that climate change assumes, as well as because, finally, the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport (PART), a programme that, in addition to responding to an ancient demand from the Greens, populations, users and authorities, carries with it two advantages, the scope of which is still to be assessed. In fact, the ART represents not only an important social measure, with very positive reflections on family budgets, but also one of the most important measures in recent decades with regard to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, in order for this measure to succeed and the paradigm change, which is fundamental, it is necessary that the tariffs be reduced and that they can reach all its potential and the way that is needed to ensure that there is indeed a bet on the promotion of public transport. Our insistence lies in the fact that it is absolutely irreversible: the transport sector is one of the main ones responsible for the high energy consumption of the country, hence the importance of promoting collective transport, essentially of the railway, which, as you know, is more friendly to the environment, which has a great deal of relevance to the goals of decarbonization assumed by the country and which urgently needs to be achieved. In view of the development of tariff reductions in public transport, there is, however, a set of aspects that need to be ensured, with a view to real promotion of collective transport throughout the country. In fact, despite the leap with this tariff reduction, investment levels in public transport are still far from responding to the needs of the population. On the other hand, it cannot be ignored that the supply of public transport outside the metropolitan areas is very small, pushing thousands of citizens to individual transport due to lack of an alternative. It follows that the populations of the most disadvantaged regions in terms of transport also have mobility needs and, if there is no provision for collective transport, this trend must be reversed for public transport. in this perspective, the ART should assume itself as a mechanism of territorial cohesion that guarantees equity throughout the national territory. But in addition to the need to extend the tariff reduction to the rest of the territory, it is imperative to invest on the supply side, because transport companies show a clear lack of investment. As far as Transtejo and Soflusa are concerned, we have witnessed continued degradation, where times are not met, ships are degraded, with a huge investment in maintenance and repair. Ships are missing and often no links are suspended, particularly in peak hours. The meters of Lisbon and Porto, as well as the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), require for years to strengthen the rolling stock in the same way that investment in the enlargement of the network is essential. But it is also necessary to address the problems of the lack of workers in transport companies, including in repair and maintenance, in order to place transport at the service of the populations and to vary EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company), which should have a fundamental role here. In summary, what the Greens argue is that we cannot lose the train that started with the PART, and for this it is necessary not only to extend the system throughout the territory, but also a strong investment on the supply side, as a way not to discredit the measures that were taken with the PART and effectively create the conditions for people to occupy public transport as a real alternative to the use of private car and thus also to combat the threat of climate change. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u209	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on having finished your intervention precisely at the end of the 6 minutes, which is a remarkable fact, and to inform you that your intervention has prompted the registration of four requests for clarification from the Bureau. How do you intend to answer them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u210	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u211	The first request for clarification will then be made by Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the theme of this political statement is timely and helps to clarify the public position of the PSD on the tariff reduction of social passes. I have already made a first reference to combating the persistent and misleading insistence on the part of socialist propaganda that the PSD is against this measure. It's a lie! [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] The PSD is in favour of reducing social pass prices. We really believe that it is a good measure to combat climate change and a good measure for citizens' mobility. [[They voted against it!]] [[They voted against it!]] [[They voted against it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u213	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, but for a good policy to be implemented, two assumptions have to be made: firstly, access to be universal to all Portuguese—we find it unacceptable that there are regions that do not have access to this benefit; secondly, very important, is that the supply of transport is sufficient to meet the demand. Neither one, nor any other assumption is gathered, on the contrary! The Socialist Government, with the tariff reduction, has brought much more trouble for those who really need to use public transport every day, because they have no alternative of mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u214	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u215	It's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u216	In peak hours it is unthinkable to walk public transport. There are those who wait more than an hour to catch a train. This is happening today on the Sintra Line! It's a full-fledged shame. [[PSD applause.]] Between buses, meters, trains and ships that do not pass, endless waiting times, overcrowding and giant rows and with precarious compositions and without any hygiene, the Portuguese wait, on average, per month, for about 20 hours by public transport. They spend almost a day — look at it — waiting for transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u217	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u218	What the Portuguese have today is a low-cost tariff reduction policy to cover all management errors and lack of circulating material. The house was built by the roof and the problems worsened with the fall of the price of the passes—to seats removed to the compositions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u219	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u220	I shall end with a question, Mr President. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, do you not think that a serious and low-electoral government should have invested in priorities, first improving infrastructure and equipment and then benefiting Portuguese from royalties? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u221	It's not a royalty, it's a right! That's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u222	You have the floor for the second request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u223	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Green Party on its choice of the subject. Mobility is a priority for both the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government. With the support of the Green Parliamentary Group, as well as the rest of the left, it was possible to adopt the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction. On the basis of the last statement, we are reminded that the position of the right to parliament in this debate: it was the lie, it was against the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, it was against the fact that thousands of families save hundreds of euros per month. That's the answer you have to give to the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since 1 April this year, thousands of families have savings of about hundreds of euros per month. It is thousands of families, every year, who have hundreds of euros a month. That's the truth! [[PSD protests.]] At a time when we are debating the fight against climate change, does the Greens Ecological Party not agree that the main focus on which we should bet is public transport and tariff reduction? at this point when it defends decarbonization, isn't this the way? This is my first question to the Greens Ecological Party. I also use it to ask the Green Party what the number of passengers transported before 2015 was and what is this number today. In the past, there was indeed a policy for the destruction of public transport and the defence of a privatization policy, of which the biggest example is the EMEF, a company that was to be destroyed and cut into the middle by the PSD government / CDS-PP — the truth is this! [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] I also wanted to ask you about the investments in EMEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u224	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u225	Mr President, will investment in people and materials not be the right way to defend rail and public transport? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u226	In order to answer that, it is appropriate to speak to the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u227	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u228	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Carlos Silva, from PSD, and Hugo Costa, from PS, the questions asked. Mr Carlos Silva, the PSD says that it is in favour of price reduction, but voted against this measure. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Mr President, I think it is already too late to catch the train, but it is not difficult to try. You're trying, you might still catch him! [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Really, PSD is so in favour of tariff reduction! ...that, in fact, until you saw yourself when you were in the government! Open... I'm going to tell you about numbers, Mr. Deputy, telling you the following: between 2011 and 2015, there was a 12 % loss of passengers in public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u229	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u230	Because you were in the government! If you want the answer, I will give it now: because you were in government! [[PEV and PCP applause.]] And do you know why there was this reduction? Because you, when you were in government, imposed gross increases in tariffs and made a dramatic cut on the supply side. Therefore, it is not unusual that there was less than 12 % of passengers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u231	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u232	Then, in reverse sense, with the reduction in the price of passes, for example, the Navigator, in the region of Lisbon — and now I take advantage to respond in part to Mr Hugo Costa — there was an increase of 150 000 new titles by September 2019. This compared to the previous period. So when Mr Carlos Silva asks whether this measure should have been taken before or after the improvement of infrastructure, I reply that this is of little interest to him. Now, let me tell you - and I do it - without pretending to have any pedagogical meaning - that, where you see the royalties, we see rights and where you see customers, we see users. I think this says everything and demonstrates the position of any government. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] Finally, Mr Hugo Costa, as I mentioned in my political statement, I believe that the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction (PART) was one of the most important measures from a social point of view, given the positive reflections it has in family budgets, but also from an environmental point of view, in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because we know what the transport sector represents at this level. But I also believe that investment is the right way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u233	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u234	The question is that of the priority of this investment and whether it is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u235	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u236	« Ah, but they are green! » And they're PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u237	But on that, there is no doubt. And since you asked me, Mr Carlos Silva, and you did the right thing to hear, I will also finish with the following: you know, Mr, if you hadn't cut so much when they were, perhaps, you didn't need so much investment either. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u238	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u239	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the CFP, we wanted to stress the importance and opportunity of the political declaration of the Green Party. And we must bear in mind that for more than 20 years the CFP has been committed to defending and presenting proposals with concrete measures so that populations could have more accessible transport, with a cheaper pass, valid for all the careers of all operators throughout the territory in the metropolitan areas. And we have always stressed the indispensable requirement of enlargement to the whole country of these tariff policy options, as well as effective, substantial, stable public investment, programmed for the modernisation and development of transport systems. It is worth saying that it had made a lot of difference that these measures had moved forward in 1997, when the PCP proposed them and when they had the vote against PS, PSD and CDS. Even when we were alone in defending these proposals, we did not give up fighting. And now we are contributing to new solutions, with concrete proposals to defend and consolidate progress, but also to respond to the serious problems that people face. The question of stable, regular funding, not dependent on the budgetary debate in each year, is therefore raised to ensure that we do not return to these exorbitant and unbearable pricing policies for reformed and young workers. It is for this financing of more affordable tariffs for all the national territory that contributes to the PCP bill, on which we would also like to hear the opinion of the honourable Member. He also put in his speech the crucial issue of investment in transport, both in the metropolitan areas and in the interior regions, in all sectors — from rail to river transport, from urban services to connections between the regions. The PSD says that it is entirely in favour of tariff reduction — indeed, that is why they voted against it! ... That is, the measure was very good, provided it was taken « in the day of never, in the afternoon». That is why prices have increased by 25 %! And when the PSD and the CDS in the government decreed the race—not cut it, but the race! — in the supply of transport, there was no concern mentioned today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u240	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u241	I shall finish, Mr President, with an issue that has to do with the linkages between regions and the service within the country. It is that when the National Road was privatized at the time, what they promised was a sea of roses and wonders with competition. Here's the result, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u242	To request clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u243	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr José Luís Ferreira and the Greens on the subject they bring here, because the PART is an absolutely essential programme for two issues which, in our country, are very important: on the one hand, the issue of climate change, which is on the agenda, and on the other hand, the promotion of public transport is fundamental to this fight; and on the other hand, the challenge we have in Portugal with regard to territorial cohesion and the reversal of what has been done over the last few decades to destroy what it did so well for territorial cohesion, but which has largely resulted in the destruction of the railway at national level and the national network. We now see the PSD wanting to enter a photograph, which, however, has already lost time. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u244	Mr President, the PSD voted against the tariff reduction. The photograph where PSD and CDS are and will be maintained is in the photograph of the privatization of public transport companies and the increase in the price of public transport. That photograph everyone's saved. So you can have that. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] The challenges which the tariff reduction has brought, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, are very important, above all because it is necessary to ensure, on the one hand, that this investment is permanent and, on the other hand, that it reaches the whole territory in a uniform way to all populations. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] The question I wanted to put — until next week we will discuss some diplomas exactly on this issue — has to do with the project that the Left Block presents — and it is not the first time it does so, but it has been plunged — about the work that is still necessary to harmonise between inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas, because we know of problems that still exist in this harmonisation. We wanted to know whether the Greens were following this concern and what proposals were made for the resolution of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u245	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u246	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that whoever wants to solve the problem of mobility and who wants to respond to people who use public transport every day, voted in favour of this programme and works daily for this programme. And we know who's on whose side in defense of public transport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u247	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u248	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party and Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block for the questions addressed to me. Mr Bruno Dias well remembered the proposals made by the Portuguese Communist Party on this matter, which, in fact, we know and follow. And then it touches on the essential question: the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction is an unparalleled measure in recent decades, not only in terms of mobility, but also in the fight against climate change. However, we are at risk of discrediting this measure if we do not now move forward to what Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Bruno Dias said, which is to invest in the supply side. It is that, if we have been creating the conditions for people to release individual transport to walk from public transport, we cannot solve the problem by removing more banks or chairs to take more people standing. We need a serious investment, and then we need what we both need. Members have mentioned, which is to extend this system to the rest of the territory, because it is necessary to see that we are not talking only about environmental issues here, we are also talking about territorial cohesion. And if we want to have a fair country, it will have to be fair to all, not having the city pass and the others don't. Therefore, where there is no public transport, it is necessary to raise them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u249	And the PSD went against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u250	Finally, Mrs Isabel Pires, it is also necessary to say the following: of course, the fight against climate change — and I believe that even the defence of the environment in general — is not compatible with an economic model based on the idea of infinite growth, as if infinite were also the resources of the planet. The planet's resources are limited, finite. I therefore believe that the central issue of combating climate change has to do with the economic model that is governing us and that it thinks that we can grow indefinitely, but we cannot because resources are limited. Now, this does not mean that each one does not make an effort and that the governments themselves also stop proclaiming the intention to decarbonize the economy in 2050 and save everything for 2049. No, concrete measures are needed. And that is where this Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction is inserted, which can be important if it is boosted precisely in the areas referred to here: territorial cohesion; extending the PART to the whole country; and investing seriously on the side of the offer, so as not to be pushing people out of public transport again. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u251	The next political statement is from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Sunday, 1. on December 10 years were completed on the entry into force of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, an integral part of the Lisbon Treaty signed in this city in December 2007. Also in December, but 10 years before its entry into force, the work of the Convention to draw up and approve the Charter, which was solemnly proclaimed in 2000 by Parliament, the Council and the European Commission at the Nice Summit began in Brussels! Today it is crucial to seriously and critically weigh what has changed in the meantime and what has allowed the unfortunate backlog of the European project over the past 20 years! Two hundred years after the revolutions that inaugurated the modern era 20 years ago, it was also understood that a Constitution for Europe should begin with a declaration of rights: the Charter of Fundamental Rights. For the younger ones — who have not lived those days — and for the older ones — who have perhaps forgotten them — I will quote the words spoken in Nice, by Nicole Fontaine, President of the European Parliament, in December 2000. He said to the President of the European Parliament: « Allow me to begin my speech with a sincere and warm tribute to Portugal and France, who have presided over this whole year of reflection and negotiations (... ). Making Nice a success means demonstrating to our fellow citizens that the Union is based on values inscribed in a Charter that will be common to all men and women living in the territory of the European Union, a Charter that we have just signed(...). The Charter does not only aim to protect citizens from possible abuses of European institutions. It also aims to protect countries from returning to the past (...). To give legal value to the Charter means (...) that these values bind us to all, Member States and candidate countries (...). The European Parliament wishes (...) that the Member States entrust to the Charter, in the Constitutional Treaty, the force of law which is a condition of its credibility and effectiveness, (...) that (...) a reflection (...) whose methodology (...) should be inspired by the Convention which has drawn up the Charter and whose primary objectives should consist of a Constitution for Europe, that the Charter we are now proclaiming would be the first stone. Do not keep on seeking. ” The words of the President of the European Parliament then expressed a genuine political will shared by 15 Member States, which prepared an ambitious enlargement which did not compromise the matrix values on which it was originally based. Enlargement has been accomplished, although Turkey has been perversely abandoned in the middle of the road, but the constitution of Europe would then fall into the French referendum. We therefore waited seven years until the Treaty of Lisbon finally established the European Union and entered the Charter in the legal order of the Union. The balance of implementation of the Charter is still to be made, but we must admit that the answer to the challenges we have faced in the past 10 years is overwhelming. The values affirmed by the Charter have given way to the budget treaty and the policies of blind austerity have divided the peoples and threatened the standards of dignity of the European social model. With cynical indifference, humanitarian relief and the reception of the vacancies of immigrants buried in the Mediterranean or hospitalized in refugee camps were committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the escalation of nationalism and the extreme-right populist threaten our democracies today. However, the Charter continues to point the way forward. First of all, by the method. The Convention which drafted it incorporated three components into the Praesidium law, with the representation of the Commission, covering Antonio Vitorino, and the governments of the Member States, which formed an entity ; with the representation of the European Parliament, with 15 elements, which formed a second entity ; and with two representatives of the Parliament of each State, since José Barros Moura and Maria Eduarda Azevedo were present on behalf of this House. I had the honour to represent our Prime Minister Antonio Guterres. The Convention has promoted, with unprecedented scope, the most fruitful debate and the widest participation in the history of the European institutions. Secondly, in addition to the exemplary method, the content. The Charter closes the most generous and innovative contribution of all declarations of rights before it. Looking at the long way forward since the end of December 1999 when we first met in Brussels under the German presidency and comparing the gap between the positions in comparison with the ambitious text that we finally managed to approve in Lisbon that the Charter — with its unpublished methodology, the broad representativeness guaranteed by the composition of the Convention and the wide publicity and opportunities for participation in the work — was the laboratory that prepared the revision of the treaties. Between the first meeting of the Convention on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, held in Brussels on 19 December 1999, and its entry into force on 1 December 2009 took almost 10 years and became a decisive page in the history of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u253	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u254	I will finish, Mr. President. Interestingly, it was under the presidency of Portugal, with socialist governments, that it opened and would close this long process, with the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon on 13 December 2007, which finally gave the Charter the force of law by whose effective application in baptisms and by which we will continue to fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u255	Mr President, the Bureau has registered three Mrs to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u256	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u257	That will be the case, Mr President. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u258	Mr. President, good afternoon to all. Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, the Charter of Fundamental Rights enshrines in the law of the European Union a set of personal, civic, political, economic and social rights of citizens and residents of the European Union. Despite the principles set out in the Charter, attacks on political, social and individual rights are multiplied. The so-called'refugee crisis' is the most cruel face of European deconstruction by the hands of dominant policies. The absence of an intransigent defence of the rights of asylum seekers has contributed to the growth of a violent speech against migrants. False narratives are built that promote stereotyped and preconceived views with the sole aim of accentuated artificial divisions between Europeans and others. These migrants are kept in an irregular state for long periods, enhancing exploitation and precarious work, feeding the networks of human trafficking and, in extreme cases, the reappearance of slave forms of work. In many of the countries of Europe, walls have been built to keep these people away or separate from the other inhabitants. We know that immigrants and refugees contribute to the social and cultural wealth of the countries where they live, balancing the demographic balance and ensuring the sustainability of social security systems. The question I am asking you, Mr President, is: how can we link the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the Charter with the processes of dehumanization of life and politics, with violations of the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees, with the criminalization of human rights activists by reporting crimes committed against the human rights of migrants and refugees? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u259	To reply, I have the floor of Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, who I would like to congratulate on today's anniversary. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a curious coincidence. Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias said precisely in my political statement that the importance of the Charter is greater in days than ever before. In Europe, there are people and will to change the direction in which the Union has been lost, either with austerity policies or, as I said, with indifference to the suffering of so many who, expelled from their countries, on climate issues and on political and military issues, have failed to find a secure port in the European Union — which in the past constituted a beacon that would enlighten them, attract them and, therefore, have led them falsely to this point. I believe that our will and the perception of the incalculable damage caused by this disorientation will be sufficient stimulus, which we must encourage, so that loyalty to the European Union's fundamental values can prevail. in this sense, it is essential to speak of the Charter, divulge it and evaluate its application, to try to understand why it was ignored in the first 10 years of its entry into force and to draw from it the guidelines and objectives needed to guarantee a future for the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u261	To request clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the NAP, Mr Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u262	Mr President, on behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by greeting the Socialist Party for bringing the debate on the European Convention on Human Rights, a very important milestone in the process of building the European project and defending human rights. But this cannot be merely a symbolic evocation. The Convention, we recall, periodically, in Article 4. the, that no one can be kept in slavery or servitude and that no one can be prevented from performing forced or compulsory work. In view of this, we would like to know what the PS position on some issues is. According to the data produced by the Human Traffic Observatory, with the exception of 2014, labour trafficking has been the main form of trafficking in human beings signalled, with more victims confirmed by the Portuguese authorities, being Portugal the second country of the European Union with more victims of human trafficking for this purpose. For the NAP, this scourge is combated by a set of concrete measures, such as the strengthening of supervision in combating trafficking in human beings for labour exploitation, particularly in agricultural holdings, such as the strengthening of transitional responses to the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings or the increase of shelter centres for the protection of such victims. But for such measures to be possible, it is necessary to start by strengthening the human resources of the Working Conditions Authority, the Human Traffic Observatory itself and the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). What position will the PS take as part of the discussion on the speciality of the State budget for 2020 in relation to the NAP proposals in this regard? How does the PS feel, then, to combat the scourge of human trafficking in Portugal? More: when we speak of the containers for temporary workers' housing in the agricultural holdings inserted in the Mira Kingdom Perimeter — and we already know the position of the Government — for the NAP, the resolution of the Council of Ministers does not coincide with what is defined in the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and the Housing Bases Act itself, because a family cannot live in hygiene and comfort conditions, which allow the privacy and privacy of users, in a shared home with 16 people, drinking filtered water provided by the Mira Kingdom Perimeter. Now, how does the Socialist Party stand on this issue?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u263	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u264	I'm done now, Mr. President. I'm really finishing up. Recently, it was announced that 66 minors who arrived alone were missing — they lost their track — Portugal and asked for asylum and, according to data from the SEF itself, Europol and Frontex, most of these children end up having sexual exploitation. What is the Socialist Party willing to do to combat this scourge? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u265	Mr. Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u266	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, her questions contain the answer she asks for. In other words, it is clear that the cases referred to should have a response, either from the administrative bodies, to which these situations are to be monitored, or from the Government, which has committed itself and which, in general, we must recognise, makes Portugal an exemplary country within the framework of the European Union in these matters. Obviously, in order to do so and to comply with it, it is necessary to provide these policies with adequate funding, so it could not be more in line with the concerns expressed by the honourable Member. And I look forward to the fact that the Socialist Party and the Government will be able to account for their responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u267	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u268	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bacelar de Vasconcelos, the celebration of the 10 years of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which has linked not only the institutions of the Union but also all the Member States, is undoubtedly a solemn and important moment. But more than we celebrate its legally binding character, I believe that it must be applied and unfortunately we find that the government does not always respect its application. Within the framework of your intervention, you could choose any other subject, but I am specifically referring to the subject of freedom of expression and information, specifically referred to in Article 11 (2). That letter. It is that the existence of free and plural social communication is a condition for the proper functioning of mature democracy. Journalism is a fundamental pillar of our society, and this was also the message of the conference on media financing, promoted by the Journalists' Union, where the President of the Republic has indeed left a very successful warning. But, curiously, we were still in the Committee on Culture and Communication yesterday at an episode with very worrying contours and signs when we talked about freedom of information at the public station. The sixth coordinator at 9 am, Sandra Felgueiras, came to deny the RTP information direction, queasing the delay of the Lithium business program. « The report was ready, it was possible that the program had gone to the air on September 13», said the journalist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u269	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u270	But strangely, only on October 11th is that the station broadcasts the program. Is there, Mr President, a superior decision of censure not to flout the PS and the government? Is the blue pencil back? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u271	Mrs. Deputy, you want to do the favor of finishing up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u272	Portugal needs a serious, free and free research journalism. Undesirable truths and news cannot be imprisoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u273	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u274	I'm done now, Mr. President. We therefore urge the Government to comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 11 thereof. the, instead of being for mere uplifting proclamations, empty of content and almost megaphone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u275	You have the floor to answer Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u276	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Meireles, I would like to thank you for the question you have just raised. It is a stone to touch freedom of expression and to defend freedom of the press the rejection of any speed of intervention by political power in the media's own bodies, and therefore, of course, the RTP's information management has its own competence that it would be unworthy to be questioning or to which it would be inconceivable to require governmental intervention. The freedom of expression and freedom of the press, the freedom of the media, enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, has been inscribed in our Constitution since 1976 and has no longer affected those who were already constitutional standards of application of these norms, those rights, freedoms and guarantees, in our legal order. As the honourable Member pointed out, this House, through its own committee, appreciated complaints and rumors that had the opportunity to be discussed and clarified. Please, let's not confuse incidents of our daily...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u277	Very serious incidents!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u278	... with any threat to fundamental rights or freedom of expression in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u279	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u280	Mrs. Isabel Meireles, we can sleep quietly... [[PSD protests.]] ... while there are careful citizens who can detect, including in public television programmes, State television, any signs of limiting freedom of expression. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u281	The next political declaration is the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Alvaro Almeida has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The savings of families are at historically low levels. In 2017 and 2018, Portuguese families saved less than 7% of their available income, which had not taken place since the early 1960s. In the last 25 years alone, the savings rate of families has fallen to less than half. This trend is worrying because, without savings, there is no investment; without investment, there is no economic growth; and without economic growth, it is not possible to sustainably improve the well-being of Portuguese. in these last two decades of largely socialist governance, the growth of the Portuguese economy was mediocre. It was not even 1 % per year. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] It is a weak growth that compares poorly with European economies with similar levels of development. For this reason, the standard of living of the Portuguese fell from 13. the place, in 1995, for 17. the place, in 2018, on the list of 19 euro area countries. The most recent data show that the Socialist Government is unable to reverse this trend because in the past four years or in the projections for the next two years only one of the 19 countries of the convergence of the euro area has growth rates below those of Portugal. Breaking up with this mediocre growth must be the priority. The weak growth of the Portuguese economy results from serious structural problems, which have multiple causes. But all these causes have a common factor: they are only overcome with more and better investment. Investment requires savings, and that is the problem I bring you today. It is true that investment can be financed by external savings, but this implies an increase in the country's indebtedness. The still high level of Portuguese external debt reduces the capacity to make use of this type of financing. But even when the level of external debt from departure is reduced, financing investment by recourse to external savings is not a prudent and sustainable option, as, in fact, the Portuguese felt in the skin during the socialist governments of Antonio Guterres and José Socrates. It should be recalled that during these two Governments, Portugal's net foreign debt increased by 80 % of GDP and was that high level of external debt that shook the Portuguese financial system and led to the coming of the troika to Portugal, called by the Socialist Government of José Socrates. The poor experience of the socialist governments in recent decades shows how national investment critically depends on the savings of the resident sectors, especially Portuguese families. Without internal savings, or there is no investment or this investment implies greater external debt, which, sooner or later, ends with bankruptcy or with more than one bailout. Encourage the savings of Portuguese families must be at the top of our concerns. For this reason, the PSD proposed a set of measures to alleviate the tax burden and promote the savings of families. First, it proposes to reduce the IRS tax (the income tax of natural persons) for middle-class families by reducing the rates for small and medium-sized savings income; second, it proposes to resume the deduction to IRS collection of the amounts applied in RPP (the savings plans) and other long-term savings financial instruments; third, it proposes to penalise consumer credit through increased seal tax applicable in consumer credit operations above 14 minimum wages. It is also for this reason that the PSD will reject any proposal to cover capital income within IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u283	Always defending privileges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u284	This would mean an increase in the effective tax rate for many taxpayers, especially for those who have small and medium-sized savings and who should therefore be protected, and will contribute to the negative savings rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u285	Always on the side of privileges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u286	There will certainly be some who will argue that the low-impacting will have an impact on savings. They're so wrong! Among the various determinants of savings, their profitability is one of the most important. It is only by chance that the reduction in the savings rate of Portuguese families in recent decades coincided with the sustained reduction in interest rates, which dramatically lowered the profitability of financial savings. Experience shows us that the financial system in general and the financial instruments in particular are very sensitive to small changes in profitability. For example, I recall what happened to savings certificates when the Socialist Government of José Socrates decided to reduce its profitability: it was EUR 2000 million that disappeared because of this measure. This is just one example of how small measures can have a major impact on the stability of the financial system and on the saving of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u287	Savings are always growing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u288	That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular,Srs. Members of the Socialist Party, leave the Portuguese who have worked for a lifetime in peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u289	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u290	Leave the stability of the financial system alone! It is the well-being of the Portuguese future that is at stake. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u291	The Member's political statement has raised four requests for clarification, which will be answered one by one. The first of these four requests for clarification lies with the Socialist Party. You have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Vera Braz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u292	Mr President, Mr Alvaro Almeida, first of all let me point out that in the last three years we have grown above the European Union average. It's a reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that the level of savings of Portuguese families is not desirable, we all agree. There are several factors that have contributed to this, and cannot forget the breach of trust that has been established between the bank and the savers. It was the PS government that made it possible for the financial system to be strengthened and, consequently, allowed us to enter a path of recovery from this lost trust.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u294	But this is just one of the factors. Another of the very important factors for this savings breakdown has to do with the level of unemployment achieved, particularly in 2013,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u295	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u296	...which inevitably had negative impacts on Portuguese saving capacity. The work carried out by the PS Government from 2015 onwards allowed us to reach a minimum of 6, 1 % of the unemployment rate today, the lowest of the last 16 years. With this improvement in the labour market, with the consecutive increase in the minimum wage, we have already achieved a positive change in Portuguese income. In fact, we have already achieved a 95 % recovery of the available income that had been lost between 2010 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that much of this income is still retained by private consumption, which was enhanced by the growth of the investment made by families who did not have the opportunity to do during the years of austerity, as well as with regard to companies, where we also recorded a 25, 2 % increase in their investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u297	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u298	I will finish, Mr. President. at this time, we will have a further increase in the minimum wage, and negotiations are under way to improve the average wage, as well as to relieve the income tax of families, which will, of course, allow the improvement of saving capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u299	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u300	Question only — and I am sorry, Mr President — where is the coherence of the PSD when it speaks about the saving capacity of the Portuguese, since we have verified that it was against a measure that allowed the Portuguese to save, and quite a lot, with the social pass. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u301	You have the floor to answer, Mr Álvaro Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u302	Mr President, Mrs Vera Braz, it is true that the Portuguese economy has grown above the European average a tenth, I repeat, a tenth. [[PS protests.]] It is amazing how the Socialist Party is content with so little!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u303	It's not true what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u304	Isn't that true? Oh, my God! Sorry, but it was not only in Portugal that the accounts were reversed, it was in all the countries of the European Union. Therefore, this fact I have mentioned has not changed. She must remind us that the convergence theory tells us that countries with lower incomes are able to grow faster and, within those countries with lower incomes, Portugal has grown less. [[PS protests.]] Only Syriza Greece has grown less than Portugal in this period. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Finally, Mrs Deputy, on unemployment, it is true that it has grown considerably between 2010 and 2013. You've grown a lot, you know why? Because between 2010 and 2013 we suffered the consequences of the high external debt brought to us by the socialist governments and therefore we had to implement the troika program. When the troika program ended in 2013 the unemployment rate began to fall. It was because of what the Socialist Party of José Socrates did that led the country to bankruptcy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u305	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u306	You do not want to hear, but this is the truth, Mr President. It's not worth shouting, because this is the truth! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u307	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alvaro Almeida, with regard to the considerations you have raised, many of which deserve my agreement, would like to leave you a question. The honourable Member has brought us the important issue of saving and, indeed, Portugal has a very low level of savings, as he also has — I imagine that he agrees — a problem of anemic economic growth, which has to be solved. That is the fundamental problem that needs to be solved. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Paula Vitorino.]] It is true that we are now at a stage where, fortunately, the crisis has passed and the worst times of the troika have stayed behind. And I will take this opportunity to respond to Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party, who said that this government has regained confidence between the bank and the bankers. Mr Deputy, what this government did was successive capital injections from the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u309	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u310	As for this breach of trust between the bank and the savers, if it is to see the history of the Socialist Party, the Box and the BES, perhaps, discover there many reasons for this breach of trust that will not, of course, leave you proud!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u311	Is that a BANIF? Is that a BES?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u312	So perhaps I would rather not talk about it and leave that matter for when we discuss the capital injections that the PS will still propose to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u313	Is that a BANIF? Is that a BES?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u314	Mr Alvaro Almeida, going to the bottom of the story, I ask you the following: do you think that you have already been able to understand and that the Prime Minister has been able to clarify, once and for all, whether or not there will be compulsory coverage of all incomes in the IRS? Why? Because optional inclusion already exists for most incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u315	The honourable Member decides! The budget is voted here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u316	What is at stake is whether the inclusion should be compulsory for income derived from income. I ask myself: does it make any sense, first, to make programs to encourage renting and then increase taxation on it? in the same way, if we think that there is a problem of saving, if all the banks say that more investment is needed, then how will we tax more and precisely make it difficult to create what could lead to investment, that is, savings and savings? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u317	Before giving the floor to Mr Alvaro Almeida, I would like to thank you for creating conditions for us to be able to hear it. [[Pause.]] Sir, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u318	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I thank you for your questions. In fact, it is surprising that the Socialist Party is content with the anemic growth that the Portuguese economy has had in recent years, which clearly is much lower than the average of the countries with the same size. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] I am glad you also reminded us that it was under the aegis of the Socialist Party that unemployment began to rise and that a troika program was negotiated that led to unemployment at these levels. Since then, since 2013 the unemployment rate has been falling at more or less constant rates. Actually, in recent times, the decline has slowed down, but that is natural, because unemployment is already at low levels. Therefore, in fact, there is a duality, a lack of coherence from the Socialist Party, which believes that responsibility for what is right is all its own and that it has nothing to do with everything behind it and that has brought us to this situation. What brought us to this situation was exactly the lack of internal savings, which led to excessive external indebtedness and which resulted in the coming of the troika, to finance what was not possible otherwise, with all the consequences that the Portuguese felt. This lack of savings is at risk every time its profitability is diminished and the inclusion of capital income is another factor that will put that little savings at risk. Now, the Socialist Party acknowledged that savings were low, but it did not exclude the possibility of making such measures even lower. That is exactly why the PSD here brought this issue, because Mr. Prime Minister, although he felt that there would be no mandatory inclusion by 2020, said nothing about the following years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u319	Mr Prime Minister has responded to this in the fortnightly debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u320	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u321	I will finish, Mr. President. So, unfortunately, in these things, it is very common for governments to do shit before they leave, because they know that others will have to suffer the consequences. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u322	The third request for clarification lies with Mr Duarte Alves of the Portuguese Communist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Álvaro Almeida, the PSD brought to this debate the subject of saving. It is curious that when talking about the saving of Portuguese, they often forget that only with incomes that allow them to live with dignity is possible even to think about saving. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u324	in this regard, the PSD can well be penalized by the freezing of wages and pensions that its government has made, ruining the lives of thousands of Portuguese and even more their ability to save. The PSD brings back to this plenary the theme of envelopment, replicating the idea that this measure will lead to a problem in savings and investment. On this issue, we need to raise the fundamental question: why is it that two taxpayers have exactly the same incomes, one that has labour incomes and one that has capital incomes, have to pay different tax rates, due only to the origin of incomes? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u325	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u326	In other words: why can one save more than the other just because he has capital income?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u328	Compulsory inclusion means ending the unfair situation in which labour income is gradually taxed — and well! — whereas certain capital income may pay a fixed rate, irrespective of the value of income. We don't know any government proposals on the inclusion. What we know is the reaction of the decision-making and communication centres of the great capital, which, before no more than an intention, have already put the claws out against this measure, which means that many million are involved and that some do not want to pay them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u330	Once again, as always, the PSD is placed next to the privileges of the richest and most powerful. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u331	Since 2013 the CFP has proposed compulsory encumbrance for incomes of more than €100 000. This is a fiscal measure which is imposed, because the generality of the Portuguese, who lives from their work, cannot continue to be called upon to contribute to higher rates than those of those who have more to compensate for the tax benefits to the great capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u332	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u333	The honourable Member spoke about savings and investment. However, I wonder whether the PSD does not consider that the fundamental to stimulate investment, wealth creation, the increase in national production is the significant increase in public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u334	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u335	I will finish, Mr. President. I also ask the PSD if it will follow the PCP accordingly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u336	To reply, Mr Álvaro Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u337	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, the difference in labour income taxation and capital income taxation is very simple: capital income has already been taxed when labour income was generated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u338	Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u339	What about the inheritances? Oh, my God! What about the inheritances? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u340	Excuse me, Member? Can I talk? Mr Duarte Alves, the wages are taxed when they are generated and then saved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u341	That's not how the system works!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u342	And they're saved for what? In order to be able to finance the investment. If they weren't saved, they were spent at the time and there was no way to invest. That's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u343	What about the inheritances? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u344	Mr President, if we tax savings three times, we are penalizing savings and encouraging consumption. To encourage consumption is to spend what we have today and not take care of the future. That is the difference between this side and that: we think about the future and not you! You spend what you have today and you don't want to know about tomorrow. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member is from the Communist Party. So tell me what was the communist regime that did not end in hunger and misery. [[All right!]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u345	That argument is that it's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u346	He laughs, but he has four years to answer. You don't have to answer me right now. He's four years old, because we're gonna be here for four years. The honourable Member tells me that I am at the service of the great capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u347	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u348	Mr Álvaro Almeida will be recruited by the Liberal Initiative! It's gonna be the transfer of the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u349	No, sir. I'm at the service of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, there is no regime in which there is a strong social security system, a strong health system, a strong education system that is not based on a strong private economy. There's none! Tell me one, if you find him. And it is because there is no one who insists on these populist arguments to defend the great capital and on the idea that you have the whole truth and we do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u350	You want to protect privileges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u351	No, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u352	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u353	There is no growth without a private sector. No private sector, no development. Without a private sector, there is no social state that you say they defend, but they do not defend anything. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u354	You are the voice of the Salgado in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u355	For the last request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u356	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Almeida, which determines whether the investment is good or bad is the fact that it is productive. The model of real estate, income, stock speculation, which the PSD has promoted and supported since the 1990s, could have been funded with national savings and would have been no less disastrous for that. Secondly, I remember that, until now, there has been no englomeration and that is why there has not been more savings. So it seems to me that the PSD problem is another. The PSD problem with the encumbrance is another! When it was to increase taxes on the middle class, when it was to spy on the workers of this country with more taxes, the PSD was there;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u357	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u358	... but whenever there is a proposal to bring fiscal justice, then the middle class is worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u359	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u360	They are always ready to defend the middle class, when taxes are on the richest, and always willing to attack the middle class and the poorest, when it gives you good. Mr President, the inclusion is fair because it is not fair for a worker to pay more taxes than those who live on income from capital, which are generated by the speculation of the stock market or by the profits of the companies. This enclave can and should be coordinated with a change in the IRS steps that reduces taxes on the middle class, because that is fair and has to be done. I therefore advise you to leave your dads under the bed and not bring them to the parliamentary debate. I make another proposal and a challenge to the PSD : do you want to put the middle class saving? They raise wages, defend better labour legislation, defend better living conditions, more life stability,... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ...and maybe people have more conditions to get to the end of the month with a little of their saved salary. But they do not use the workers and those who live with so much effort to defend the privileges of a minority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u361	You have the floor to answer, Mr Álvaro Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u362	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you must have been confused. I'm not a businessman, I don't raise wages. As a Member, I do not have that power.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u363	The worst thing is that you've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u364	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u365	The worst thing is that you've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u366	If I decree a law to raise wages, what will happen is that companies that do not have the conditions to pay them will generate unemployment, and I don't want that. I don't want that, Mrs. Deputies! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u367	That's how it happened, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u368	Go back to the 19th century!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u369	I don't want to! I want the Portuguese to have good jobs, I want the Portuguese to have good wages, I want the Portuguese to...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u370	Mr. Álvaro Almeida, will you excuse me, please? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the parts are part of the parliamentary debate, of course, but we will create conditions for Mr Alvaro Almeida to be able to respond. It's as simple as that, so I'd appreciate it. [[Congratulations from PSD and PS Member Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the wages will be those that the economy can afford. That's why I came here to defend savings, because, without saving, there is no investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u372	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u373	... productive investment capable of generating quality jobs. That's what you don't want to understand. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] You know very well, but with your populist tactics, they realize you don't know. They know perfectly well that if the Portuguese economy no longer grows, there is no possibility of paying higher wages. To grow more, it takes investment and, to have investment, it needs to save. The reason why I came here to defend the promotion of savings is that this is the only way that Portuguese can have a better future. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] There is no possibility of improving the well-being of the Portuguese. The honourable Member said that I came here with popes, but who had just done, with the popes of the great capital, was Mrs Deputy and also Mr Duarte Alves. [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u374	That's coming from the one who just brought in the communist regimes of 100 years ago! ...I think it's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u375	Mr. Duarte Alves thinks he has a higher moral stature than I do to be here and accuse me of being at the service of the great capital? You think so? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u376	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u377	I also do not say that you are here at the service of the Communist International, are you not? I didn't come to say that! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u378	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u379	I will finish, Mr. President. There is one thing Mrs Mariana Mortágua has to realize: there are no strong economies without a strong private sector. To end the private sector is to end the well-being of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u380	This is a political debate, it is not a debate on umbigges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u381	For a final political declaration under Article 71 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is, without any doubt, an ever-increasing assembly of people, joining, of course, a President of the Republic who pulls selfies behind selfies and does not resolve anything about the country we have. We have a government that says we have certain accounts, but even today we know that the projected deficit of 90 million for the SNS is, after all, 559 million — 559 million! But this is also a country where politicians turned their backs on people. And when out there you discuss Tanks, now assigned to an instructive judge, when you discuss the National Health Service or Aveiro terrorists, who had to be arrested in France because here they had political asylum — political asylum! - What are we talking about? We speak of Greta, which arrives in Lisbon, where some of us, not me, were present. Many of you have been there, applauding and taking pictures. More: we have proposals to enter this Chamber about the elephants in Cambodia and the Portuguese to look at and see what we are doing here: we are discussing the elephants that make tours in Cambodia!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u383	Yeah, it's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u384	We still do more: one weekend, at the entrance of a week of little political relevance, we talk about regionalization, as well as anyone who doesn't want the thing, to see it stick. We do not want a referendum or debate on a project that is already clear that it only serves one thing, to give tacos that the Portuguese do not want to pay and do not deserve to pay. So we can do the referendums we want, we can debate what we want, but we can bring the issue of regionalization again, at a time when the Portuguese make so many sacrifices for their lives, is to enjoy the Portuguese. No, we do not want regionalisation, because they are stains that have not been given and that have to be distributed now. We are before a government that says we have certain accounts but that it does not pay entrepreneurs what they owe. And the debt of the State — such a state that has grown so much in recent months — does not stop increasing for entrepreneurs! As for the teachers, the flag of these gentlemen who are here on my left and who were saying, and I quote, "We will never support a government that does not treat teachers well", where are they now? Looks like they've disappeared from this assembly. These are the same teachers who do not have housing allowance, who continue to lack and, more so, who do not have authority in schools, where they now want students to pass up to 9. year without any problem. This week a teacher was assaulted in Marvila and was pregnant. What did the PS, the Left Block and the PC do?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u385	It's PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u386	It doesn't matter! It's a case, it's an episode, it's not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? No, it is an entire class that feels, increasingly, not only the rage of taxes but also the disauthorization that is committed to it by the State. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The teachers need us and the arrival will be next to the teachers, but not as the PC does, who prepares to approve the new State Budget of the Socialist Party, or the Left Block. So we do here a challenge to the PC and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u387	It's PCP, you illiterate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u388	... that is the following: if you have so much love for teachers, if the Free has so much love for teachers, then the Budget of the State of the Socialist Party, because what will give teachers is a hand full of nothing. On that day, the Portuguese will see! My gentlemen, there are more than 600 crimes per year in schools — more than 600! Question: where are the projects to combat crime in school? They don't exist! It's like, to us, teachers don't care. We now know that there are teachers who have not received the Christmas allowance and the Minister's response has been zero to this day. It's a country that cares about Greta, about elephants,... [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] ...that cares about everything, just don't worry about who works and who pays taxes. The arrival denounced here, in this House, that there was a fundamental inconsistency in this government, that it was to say one thing and do another. It's exactly the same thing with the precariouss. The government says it has a big plan for precariousness. Mr. Prime Minister said here, in this House, that when he arrived he found a situation with regard to officials of the official residence and offices. He said: « We have already created a division ». Look at that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, miracle! This division appears on Monday, in the Journal of the Republic. There are things of the devil, there are things of the devil! On Monday, after confronting Mr. Prime Minister, he appears—and so that he knows the numbers, so that they do not come to say it is invention — Office No 11325 / 2019. I have him here with me. [[PS protests.]] And now look at this: a government that comes here systematically and says 'Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, we're on the right track', when we turn our backs on us, we don't stop to continue in the same erratic policy of inconsistencies. We're playing with the Portuguese. But there's gonna be a day when the Portuguese will decide what they don't want in this house anymore, because, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we can spend the time talking about Greta, which comes from boat, or from Cambodia's elephants or we can even talk about what the big capital did in the 19th century or the 21st century, we can do all of this, but we can't forget about one thing: we can't forget who's out there paying our salaries, paying our conditions to keep working for them. Today, there is an entire country that looks at us, which sees us discussing topics that people say zero and asks what we do here. This is something we should be ashamed of — the whole country! A Prime Minister who shames a whole country, a chamber that often shames a whole country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u389	So what are you doing here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u390	...and, moreover, a country that often forgets those who truly support it, who are such a middle class and not, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the big capital. Who rents houses is not the great capital, who puts their lives in savings is not the great capital, they are people to whom many of these gentlemen. Members have turned their backs and are still still, even today, some unwillingly, paying.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u391	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u392	I will finish, Mr. President. Those of the great capital, who have houses, who have small savings and who we say are monsters, who want to escape taxes, are actually who really supports us to be here, and at least we should have them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u393	This concludes the first item on our agenda for political declarations. We are going to move on to the second point, which is a regiment vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u394	The electronic framework records 215 presences, to which Mr Cristovão Norte is added, by means of 216 Members, so we have quorum to vote. First, we have Vote No 83 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Sunday Piedade, which Mrs.Secretaria Sofia Araújo will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last November 30, at 75, on Sundays Piedade, one of the great names of Portuguese and international automobiles. Known as the « Lord Formula 1 », on Sundays Piedade worked with Emerson Fittipaldi and Michele Alborreto, he was a close friend of Ayrton Senna and helped « launch» Michael Schumacher. For several decades he dealt with all the brands and top names of the industry and world car sports, of which he was a deep acquaintance. He was managing AMG, Mercedes brand competition department, and sports manager and director of several Formula 1 teams, as well as television commentator. You won the 24 Hours of Le Mans as team leader at Porsche. Between 2003 and 2012, he chaired the Board of Directors of the company Circuit do Estoril, holder of the Estoril Autodrome. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret over the death of Sundays Piedade, presents its condolences to family and friends and enhances its enormous for Portuguese and international automobiles. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u396	Thank you very much, Secretary. Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 76 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PSD ) — From praise to the gymnasts of the Acro Clube da Maia — Par : Rita Ferreira, Rita Teixeira ; Trio : Barbara Sequeira, Francisca Maia, Francisca Sampaio Maia ; Group : Henrique Silva, Henrique Piqueiro, Frederico Silva, Miguel Silva. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 10 a.m. at 3 p.m. with the 15th session of the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. In the second point, we will have the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. The CFP will have parliamentary work in the next two days. We wish you had a good job.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u397	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u398	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u399	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that I was present in the vote but I could not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-04.u400	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 21 minutes.]]
