ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Our agenda begins with a current debate required by the PS under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the theme « call center work regime ». There are no announcements to be made immediately to Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Less than a month ago we discussed in this Chamber a petition with thousands of signatures, promoted by the Workers' Union at Call Center, which expressed concerns about the working conditions in the call centers, sensitizing the different parties to legislative initiatives in this area. in this debate, regardless of the greater or lesser agreement with some of the concrete proposals of the petition, we said that the Socialist Party would not give the subject for closure this afternoon. Today, we do. We said that we had the willingness to regulate the profession and we took the initiative with a proposal that would enable us to know better, to study and then to intervene. The scheduling of this current debate by the PS demonstrates the centrality that we attribute to this matter and to the problems affecting a sector that, according to the data of representative associations, employs more than 80 000 people. The call centers, which employ these thousands of workers, therefore correspond to an increasingly important part of our economy, in sectors ranging from bank to insurance, from telecommunications to energy, from health to public administration, and therefore it is at least strange that, covering such an important number of workers, we know so little about them and that there is not even a collective convention in this sector. There have been many doubts. How do these people work? How much do you get? What kind of contracts do you have? What's your work environment like? What problems and diseases result from your activity? How many precarious are there? Strictly speaking, we don't know. We therefore want answers to these and other questions. We know that we talk about very different things when we talk about call centers, but we don't know much more than that, with solid and reliable data. However, what we know brings us deep reservations, to which we cannot remain indifferent. The specificities of the working environment in which the workers of the contact centres perform their functions are recognised as being demanding. They work for long periods, usually seated, simultaneously using a telephone device and a computer. It is an uninterrupted work carried out, for long periods of time in each working day, with obvious implications on the duration and quality of breaks, generating a negative impact among these workers. More. the division and specialization of tasks, repetitive and not complex, the control of the number of times of care, the division between planning or performing tasks, with little decision autonomy, are other characteristics in these contact centers that, day after day, originate routineization, uniformization and psychological wear. Potential risks cannot be underestimated, we have been alerted to them. We are faced with an activity of great mental and emotional demand, which leads to recognized, documented, exhaustion, depression and burnout situations. All this adds successive complaints of precariousness, recourse to temporary work and poor remuneration. In order to have an idea, between 2016 and 2017, the turnover of the call centers tripled, exceeds 300 million euros, but the average wage paid to the workers of this sector decreased by 23 euros in the same period. It is therefore important, urgently, to replace this model, where more profit corresponds to less wages, by a model with more justice and more redistribution. We know that not all companies act in this way—we admit that most do not even act in this way—but we are, on a regular basis, reporting of these and other bad practices, and there are the authors of the Labour Conditions Authority to prove that this is and has been so. That is why we cannot continue to ignore this reality. We want to change it and, to change it, we need to know where the bad practices are, identify them, isolate them and create conditions for them to be eliminated. For this, it is essential to know the spaces where these activities are exercised, the established labor relations, the conditions of hygiene and safety, ergonomics, the respect for the standards of rest and stability of the times, among many other dimensions. Knowing the working conditions in the call centers is essential for us to be able to intervene on them, improving labour protection and never forgetting that the absence of something social in this sector contributes to a greater deprotection of their workers. That's what we're doing here this afternoon. The Socialist Party proposes that the Government, through the Office of Strategy and Planning of the Ministries of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, prepare a study on the reality of the call centres in Portugal which is focused on the dimensions relevant to the physical and psychological well-being of workers, highlighting the working and environmental conditions, the flexibility and reconciliation of personal and family life, medicine at work, precariousness, type of contract, professional progression, or lack of it, the dynamics of the organization of work and respect for all existing legal regulations, including recourse to false temporary work. With this proposal, which has already entered the Assembly of the Republic, and with the debate this afternoon, we respond to two concerns: we give visibility to the demands of the workers of this sector and avoid legislating from a base still unknown and little scolded. We therefore take a very important step forward so that we will soon be able to regulate the profession, based on a reliable social and labor radiography, which responds to the doubts listed here, involving as much consensus as possible, of the Assembly, of the Government and of the social partners. We cannot accept that bad practices lack the whole sector and do not admit that it imposes itself and maintains as a kind of black side of labor relations in Portugal. That is not fair, it is not worthy and does not correspond to the view of competitiveness in which we believe that our economy should be based. A dignified life and a stable, well-remunerated work that guarantees physical and mental health conditions, is something that the workers of the call centers have right, like all others, because they are not machines, they are not robots, they are human, they are workers. We know that many call centers workers look forward to improvements in this sector. Your voice, which is essential on the phone of a call center, has been very little heard in the public debate and we want to tell you that this will change. In respect for the dignity of your work and in response to your concerns, we ensure that the Socialist Party will not miss them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u3	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are debating an attempt by the PS to shake down the water from the hood, because of the inability of the government to comply, and to enforce, the labour laws in the call centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u6	One of the main problems in the state and in the private sector is precariousness. Since the current majority chose to reduce precariousness as one of their major political objectives, they failed. They failed with the state workers, because the number of term contracts has never ceased to increase since the left ones rule.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u8	At the end of 2018, one and a half months ago, there were 72 000 final contracts in the State, plus 9000 more than in 2015. In the private sector almost 900 000 workers had a precarious employment link, plus 73,000 more than in 2011 when the troika entered Portugal. They are data from the National Institute of Statistics. With the Left Government, the number and precarious workers increased explosively, and many of them were workers of the call centers that the Ministry of Labour does not control. Workers and trade unions complain about problems and abuses. Without adequate monitoring and supervision, it would be difficult not to do so. There are problems in the call centers of the State, because this government opts for outsourcing or precariousness, rather than complying with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u9	Before it was just this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u10	The union tells us that it is close to 82 000 call centers workers. We add that most of the 900 000 Portuguese have a precarious bond today. And why doesn't the Ministry of Labour monitor? Because of the seizures of the Ministry of Finance made blindly to all public administration services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u12	Trade unions report situations of moral harassment by employers. Moral harassment is illegal now, but it was also illegal during the time of the troika. So why has the Ministry of Left-Work been sleeping? Trade unions complain that employers do not respect the principles of ergonomics, that many of the facilities are unhealthy, sometimes agglomerating hundreds of workers in closed spaces, with permanent background noise; complain about respiratory problems, hearing difficulties; complain about high rates of depression, problems in vision and vocal cords; complain, after all, that this government has failed to comply with safety, hygiene and health standards at work in an entire sector of activity, which covers 82 000 workers. To divert attention from the inability of a government in a permanent electoral campaign, which does not comply with or enforce the labour laws, the PS or the more scholarly government. After falling into the exam is that the PS remembers studying.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u14	If it is true, as the unions report, there are situations of psychological pressure from the leaders, if the workers are prevented from doing their physiological needs when nature asks, the culprit must be pointed out. Mrs. Members, the profession of call center operator already appears regulated in collective agreement, that is factual. But when collective bargaining cannot produce an instrument of collective regulation, the one who has to make the omission is not the Assembly of the Republic, but the Government, through a door of working conditions. This is what the Labour Code says in Article 517. the, and the PS knows it well. They count on the PSD to require the government to fulfil its obligations. They can count on the PSD to require compliance with the law to all employers of call center, public or private. You can count on the PSD for serious things, don't count on us to play with serious things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u16	Who likes to play with serious things, is increasingly evident for workers and unions, is the Socialist Party. The problems that exist in this sector today are the fault of the government and those who support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u17	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u18	It is a government that does not monitor compliance with labour laws, a government that never wanted to regulate the activity, because at any time it could have issued an extension port, a port of working conditions, which allows the Labour Code. at the end of three and a half years of disillusionment with a sector that employs 82 000 people, the PS only wants to relieve the heavy consciousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u20	After three and a half years of sleep, the PS agreed to study. We say it's time for the PS to explain to people, because only now, a few months from the elections, have you remembered the call center operators. They can also take advantage of and explain why they never wanted to know these people for nothing before, not even to force companies to comply with the laws of work, which they so much like, but only to speak. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u21	Mr President, it has been written to ask for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u22	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, if you have heard my speech, you have noticed that this initiative is precisely the result of the work done by the Workers' Union at Call Center, the signatures they have collected and the discussion we have had here a considerable month ago. Therefore, with this debate, the Socialist Party responds precisely to several of the concerns expressed by the Workers' Union at Call Center. However, the honourable Member is speaking from the rostrum and, regardless of the subject, he speaks of captivating, of precarious workers of the state, he is speaking of several things, but he does not speak of the essentials. The honourable Member said that precariousness has increased, which is an extraordinary way of'marking' the data. [[PSD laughter.]] Do you know when precariousness has been lower statistically over the last few decades? It was when you increased unemployment to historical levels and therefore there was no precariousness in Portugal because the young people and all the workers were out of the country or unemployed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When unemployment was historically high, precariousness was historically low. There was no job, sir. With the Socialist Party, over the past year, the number of long-term contracts increased by 18 %, the number of non-term contracts increased by 10 %, we have had the greatest absolute and percentage increase in employment since there are statistical series, i.e. since 1998, and you understand that we have a problem. I believe that the workers who have found employment, about 350 000 since the Socialist Party took possession, are certainly more happy with the Socialist Party than with the intervention of the honourable Member. He asked where the Socialist Party is and what studies the Socialist Party has done. The Socialist Party has been promoting various measures to enhance workers' rights throughout this legislature. What I think is important to question is where was the Social Democratic Party, where was its party when the Socialist Party passed legislation to combat harassment at work, which you missed. Where was the PSD when the Socialist Party and the parties that support this majority approved the PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme of precarious linkage in public administration) to combat precariousness in the state and you did not follow? Oh, my God! Where were you when we increased the minimum wage and you didn't accompany? Oh, my God! So when we make these measures of valorization of workers and the world of work in Portugal, we know where the PSD is not: it is not next to the solutions to improve the lives of workers! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u23	The honourable Member put a question to the PSD, whose interlocutor had already exhausted time. Mr. Deputy gives the PSD some time? It is a question that Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro can answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u24	Mr President, in view of the fact that the request for clarification has still lasted a long time, I would like to address my question if I could, of course, allow myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u25	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u26	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u27	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u28	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. What is happening here is a relatively unusual situation with regard to the conduct of the work in Parliament. Mr. President should have noticed that the PSD had already run out of time. It was a beautiful intervention from my banker, but we had run out of time. [[PS Member's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u29	That is not an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President. He's already exceeding the limits of the Bureau's appeal! But please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u30	And Mr. Barbosa Ribeiro, seeing that the PSD did not have time to answer, committed here what is called a parliamentary disillusionment,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u31	...because he asked himself a question knowing that on the other side there was no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u32	Mr President, I would ask you to end the appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u33	We hoped, Mr President, that the Socialist Party would be loyal in this debate and would like to hear the PSD response because we have an answer to give, Mr President! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u34	Mr Adam Silva has been in Parliament for many years and knows perfectly well that, when there are requests for clarification at the right time, and the Bureau takes note, and the previous speaker goes beyond the time available, the requests for clarification are made and the speaker has no time to answer, unless there is a delay. You know that, you've been here for many years — I don't want to say how many! — and, therefore, we will continue our session. You have the floor, for a speech by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Call centers, or contact or service centres, have been increasing in recent years, using this service companies from various branches such as banking, insurance, telecommunications, electricity, water, tourism and many others. This new reality has led, on the one hand, to the closure of many physical shops and the consequent dismissal of workers and, on the other, to a significant increase of workers in these contact centres. However, the profession of call center operator is not regulated, which ultimately promotes a set of problems and injustices. According to the studies, it is estimated that there are more than 80 000 operators in Portugal in these care centres. It happens that a large majority of these workers are hired by outsourcing companies and temporary workers, even though there is a permanent need for these professionals. Companies thus make use of these records as a way to pay low wages and deny a set of rights, deresponsibility of their obligations, or they should have in relation to their employees. Indeed, there are call center operators who spend years meeting the needs of companies, but leaping from company to company without having an effective and direct link with the company to whom they provide essential work and whose needs are permanent. On the other hand, in the vast majority of them, these workers earn very low wages, rounding up the national minimum wage, while businesses have more and more profits. We see: between 2016 and 2017, the turnover of the call centers tripled and, exactly during that same period, the average monthly salary of the operators dropped almost 3 %. This means that, along with the growth of these companies and their significant profits, the precariousness and instability of workers are increased, not being recognized many of their rights. It should also be stressed that this is not a temporary professional activity, nor is it limited to young people seeking the first job, because there are people who do their entire career in these contact centres without ever achieving the minimum of stability. In addition, we speak of a profession that brings great physical and psychological wear, in which workers often face lack of conditions in the workplace, where hundreds of people can accumulate in closed spaces, with lack of adequate lighting, air conditioning and sounding, with inadequate equipment and lack of hygiene of the work instruments. These workers usually deal with intense work rhythms, lack of pauses, shiftwork, which is combined with pressure from companies to achieve the results, without taking into account the needs and rights of workers. In addition, the fact that unremunerated training and internships are abused and there is no specific progress or collective recruitment to the sector. It is not by chance that there has been an increase in diseases associated with this profession, such as respiratory, hearing and vision problems, tendonitis and depressions, among others. over the past few years, in fact, much has been said about these problems, which have increased due to the acceleration and intensification of the rate imposed and the increase in the number of enterprises and workers in this area. However, the situation is still awaiting resolution, and workers' demands for the regulation of the profession are becoming more and more strong, and there have been recent cases of strikes, demanding better working conditions for workers. The Greens, who have been following this reality and seeking to make their contribution in this area, have already introduced a legislative initiative in order to address the problems faced by workers in this sector, because we are faced with a daily reality that cannot be ignored and much less devalued. We have done so because we believe that it is time to regulate this profession, to ensure better working conditions and to combat precariousness, putting a brake on temporary work and outsourcing, since workers who respond to permanent needs must be effectively hired. Today, in view of the concerns expressed both by the PSD and the PS, which brought the topic for discussion, we will expect the PS and PSD to follow the Greens' legislative initiative when it is voted on and to make a contribution to regulate and place justice in the profession of call center operator, because if the PS and PS do not follow The Greens on this legislative initiative, then, yes, we would have an unusual situation, or not so much, where concerns are expressed when it is time to discuss, but when the time comes to vote, it is said: 'Not so'!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u36	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Work in call centres is not a new reality in our country, it has, in fact, decades and its evolution has gone side by side with the evolution of temporary and service-working enterprises, that is, it has walked side by side with the evolution of precariousness. Today, it is a sector that covers almost all sectors of activity and employs tens of thousands of workers, about 80 000. It is relevant to realize that from 2016 to 2017 the turnover of these companies increased from EUR 90, EUR 5 million to EUR 287, EUR 5 million at the same time as the average monthly wage decreased by 3 %. But despite all growth, it is still a sector without regulation, where absolutely everything is worth and the problems are already well identified: working hours that do not sympathize with the rhythm required by the workers, much of it by shifts or nights; too short breaks; they run into existing legislation with regard to the possibility of performing physiological needs; climate that enhances moral harassment; the appearance of diseases of the hearing, respiratory or ergonomic and psychological forum, where burnout has a great incidence; and, newness, Mrs. PSD members, these problems have not arrived in 2015, these problems have existed in the call centers for decades. The Left Block has made its way to combat precariousness in this sector as well. In addition, he presented a draft to be voted on in this Parliament, so that the Government can move forward in regulating this profession. First of all, we demand an inspection national action that allows us to create more than one picture of reality, because it is known, but more importantly, it will allow us to regulate the problems encountered. Secondly, we propose the regulation of the profession itself and, since this must necessarily be done by the Government, we propose that the Government do so in the light of the working time, the need for an increased time of interval per hour online, minimum intervals between calls and increased monitoring of hygiene, health and safety at work, considering the existing studies that point to increasingly extensive health damage to these workers. But we have also made progress in other areas with solutions, particularly in limiting aggressive recourse to temporary work, with a proposal, which is under discussion in the specialty, which reduces the grounds for recourse to this modality. in this context, the call centers are the worst seen in this country. I give some examples, which I know, unfortunately, quite well: a state entity or a user undertaking hires a temporary work or service provider and, as a general rule, it hires several temporary or service providers and can continue several times. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the scheme, it is the general rule, it is the common currently existing in Portugal, there are workers who have two, three or four intermediaries between the company for which they effectively provide service. We speak of EDP, TAP, telecommunications, IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), technical assistance in products, social security, finance and even the day of elections. In everything the callcenter services are used, no one hires a single worker for these functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u39	We cannot continue to accept a model of work that impoverishs those who work in this country. The fight against rapid wear in shiftwork and night work is a work of the Left Block that is being discussed in the specialty and will have a direct influence on the workers of the call centers. Therefore, the workers know that they count on the Left Block for this debate but, more than they count on it for the debate, they count on the Left Block to effectively combat the deregulation of the sector and abuses. It is worth noting whether they also count on the Socialist Party for this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u40	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro knows that the petition that we had not discussed here a month ago was that work at call center should be regarded as a rapidly worn-out profession. And the PS agenda this current debate for what? Oh, my God! It is that, in addition to being a current debate, the Socialist Party's Government must be present, it has little more to tell the call center workers. It is good that the Government is here to clarify its position. I recall what the Government said to the petitioners when the House asked him about this subject, and I quote, "Prevents the Labour Code that the interruptions or breaks of the working period that are imposed by safety and health standards at work are considered as working time. Do not keep on seeking. ” Moreover, I quote « The legal provisions in force already allow the desired working conditions to be guarded on the initiative and duty of employers», concluding by referring to negotiations with the social partners. The honourable Member's government has said nothing else! If this is the position of the Government of the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, it is ironic that on the day following the vote on the motion of censure to the Government that you enthusiastically support they come to claim that they have a different solution from the Government that the Left Block and the PCP pretend that they have nothing to do with the Government that they support we were already waiting for. That Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and the Socialist Party come to do exactly the same as their partners, I am sorry to tell you, Mr. Barbosa Ribeiro, it is even ridiculous. Yesterday, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro beats the government on foot. Today, what do you promise call center workers? Nothing! What we realize is that the only position the Socialist Party has to recommend to the Government is the preparation of a study. My lords, you understand! Understand! PS, Left Block and PCP rule. That's what you said yesterday. Stop pretending! Just try to trick the call center workers! Because that's what you guys are doing here! [[PS protests.]] The CDS has a very clear position on this matter. We believe that the work at call center, which has been a reality that has brought more and more workers to provide services in those companies, has its own penosity, but that there are different types of workers who provide service at call center. We know that there are workers who provide this service temporarily, in part-time or as workers-students, and also that there are those who provide this service more widely, for extended periods of time. That is why the regulation concerning these workers should be made by a collective working regulation instrument, which is negotiated, first and foremost, between the representatives of workers and businesses. That is why it must be, first of all, collective bargaining to find a solution to these issues. That is not the case, it is the Government of the European Communities. Ladies and gentlemen who have the responsibility to resolve the problem. So it's not worth the PS, the Left Block and the PCP to pretend they're going to do something, when it's your government that has an obligation to do it and hasn't done it until today, and you, still yesterday, were applauding him enthusiastically. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, stop pretending! Take your responsibilities! This is your government. Your Government has the responsibility to resolve this problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u42	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, wrote to ask for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. He has little time to answer, but he still has some. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u43	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies, spoke of ridiculous initiatives. After the initiative that the CDS had yesterday in the Assembly of the Republic, I believe that the appropriations for such interventions have already been exhausted. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] In any case, the petition you entered here and the letter from the Call Center Workers' Union addressed to parliamentary groups does not provide for the allocation of the status of rapid wear. I read it because you may not have done so: "Our main objective is to ensure the recognition and regulation of the profession, in order to safeguard the health of workers. We know that there are various ways to achieve it». The Call Center Workers' Union knows, the Socialist Party knows and proposes that this reality be studied so that we can regulate the best solutions for these workers. What is it important to know which side is the CDS: on the side of the promotion of workers' rights or, once again, outside and against workers' rights? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u44	To reply, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u45	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, with all honesty there is one side where we will not be sure, which is the side where Mr Barbosa Ribeiro stands: that of political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u46	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u47	Why, when he speaks in the regulation of the profession, who has the responsibility of doing it first? It's the government! If there is no collective regulatory instrument, who has that responsibility? It's the government! If you, who applauded the government yesterday, now pretend to have a different solution that your government does not execute, I apologize to you for saying that, that is pure political hypocrisy. And it is not just you who are hypocritical from a political point of view. They are also the Block and the PCP! So, honourable Member, we are in a calm conscience because we are not fooling people. Who's fooling people are the gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u48	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : I welcome the PS on the subject of this debate and would like to begin by stating that it is not rigorous to say that you do not know the sector. from the PCP side, we know the sector, unfortunately marked by a reality of low wages and precariousness. And what has been known for decades is that the call centers sector and the abuse of subcontracting through the outsourcing regime and temporary work to serve the permanent needs of national and multinational economic groups is marked by low wages and precariousness. This does not mean that, in fact, there is no need to present and strengthen the role of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) in monitoring these companies and guaranteeing the rights of workers. It must happen and therefore the proposals which the CFP has recently put forward in this House go in this direction. Nor is it strict to say that there is no collective bargaining. There is a collective contract and Mr. Secretary of State knows that the collective contract that exists has been denied to workers. There are collective contracts in EDP, there are collective contracts in PT and Altice, there are collective contracts in Fidelity. What does not exist is the intention of the employer to apply collective bargaining to these workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u50	Therefore, it is argued that the regulation of the profession in collective bargaining and leaving the rights of workers in the hands of the employers, who do not want collective bargaining, is a poisoned present. from the PCP, we say we have been supportive of the workers of the call centers. First of all, because we have raised questions for decades and demanded from the government and, say, to pass, Mr President. Members of successive governments — there is even one member of the CDS who, when he was the Minister of Labour and the CFP presented proposals on the supervision of workers of the call centers of EDP, MEO, NOS, Loyalty, nor responded to the questions of the CFP, the more concerned. But it is also true that the questions we have put to the current government have not had the necessary answer. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u51	Mrs. Members, it is important to say the following: it is very curious to hear a PSD member elected by the electoral circle of Castelo Branco, where the former Government of the PSD and the CDS closed the call center of social security. It is also no less true that the PCP always defended that these workers, who were in the call center of social security in Castelo Branco, had a link and were effective within the framework of the Ministry of Social Security, which the CDS never allowed. Mr President, when we present here specific proposals to combat the precariousness, creation and regulation of the profession, where is the CDS located? It sits next to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u52	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u53	It is next to the government that seeks to legalise precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u54	Next to the PS are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u55	Moreover, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, the Government's proposal to legitimize and legitimize precariousness by applying a fee to the companies which rotate workers, has lowered the Commission with the support of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u56	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u57	So what we know is that today the reality of the call centres, of bad working conditions, of low wages, of precariousness, requires solutions. The PCP has solutions and wants to see them discussed and wants to see them approved. We will see how each of the parties here will be in relation to these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u58	Yesterday, we saw!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u59	on the part of the CFP, there is one which is very obvious: it is not possible to want to guarantee the creation, regulation and enhancement of this profession without combating precariousness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u60	It is not possible to create and regulate this profession without taking as priority the fight against the triangulation of labour relations, the fight against the subcontracting of workers who respond to permanent needs. The workers of the call centres of PT, Altice, Loyalty, EDP, respond to the permanent needs of these companies and economic groups and have first of all to be integrated into the frameworks of these companies. This should therefore be guaranteed, regardless of the creation and regulation of the profession. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u61	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The contact centres sector has an increasing importance in the structure of employment in Portugal. With strong dynamism, with potential and expansion, but also with significant challenges in different dimensions of the quality of employment. It's a sector that's known for very high growth. The number of companies is growing, the volume of businesses is growing, the employment is growing and growing far above the global average of the economy. In fact, the wages of the sector — at least in companies which have as their main activity call centers — are also growing slightly above average, in a framework of very high net job creation, and it is true, however, that the starting point is low, because in fact, although the last few years have led to some wage dynamism, we know that the wages of these companies are less than the national average. at the same time, from the point of view of the links, different sources suggest that employment in contact centres has a relevant incidence of term contracts and other forms of non-permanent contracts. The incidence of term contracts in contact centres is at least twice as high in this sector as in the economy as a whole and has, in fact, grown in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the portrait of the evolution of the sector: an activity with potential that has contributed to generating employment, with an increasingly different reality, from traditional contact centers to remote service centres and highly qualified companies. It is not a single reality, it has been a significant development, but employment quality issues also arise. Even because it is, as has already been widely referred to during the debate, a specific requirement activity for professionals, contact with the public, with customers, with short deadlines of response. A reality, moreover, that the rotation of the tables makes, perhaps, more demanding. It is also a sector where there should be greater coverage of collective bargaining and, in particular, at sectoral level, where several of the issues that arise today regarding the regulation of working times, careers, working conditions, wages and vocational training could be addressed with advantage. It is a sector where, not by chance, and contrary to what has been said here, ACT has carried out a relevant activity. In recent years, ACT has made more than 200 visits to call center companies. It was inspected about a third of the companies that have this as their main activity. The situation of at least 2000 workers was verified each year. It's false that there's no action! these visits resulted in dozens of notifications and infringements and procedures with fines and sanctioning frameworks that may exceed 140 000 €. It is also not by chance that the ACT identifies, at national level, one of its main sights of inspection, and therefore recently launched a national action, in conjunction with social security, the first in more than 10 years. It has covered companies signalled in all sectors of activity, including, of course, the one where the contact centres belong. A national action covering 18 500 workers, which led to the voluntary regularisation of more than 1200 contracts and nearly 200 false service providers, which made it possible to achieve more than €100,000 in contributions to social security and which resulted in the establishment of counter-ordination processes that have fines that can reach up to EUR 1 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Employment quality has been a priority since the first hour by the 21st Government and by the majority who support it in this House. And the quality of employment is promoted with concrete steps, which have been given and must continue to be given: in promoting and recovering collective bargaining; in increasing wages and, of course, the minimum wage; in responding to new problems in the world of work and in the protection of workers; in combating precariousness. That is why the steps that have already been taken in this House are so important, from the transmission of establishment to subcontracting chains, the fight against harassment, the strengthening of instruments to combat false green receipts. Not all the parties here followed these steps. But we still have a long way to go and it is urgent to take more steps. in this as in other sectors, excessive levels of precariousness and long-term hiring continue to question Portuguese society. That is why the Government has great hope for the adoption of concrete measures with a strong transversal impact on combating precariousness, which we refer to this House in June last year, and which are currently under discussion, in the field of expertise. That is why the entry into force today of the law on equal pay between men and women is so important that another step has been taken, on a proposal from the Government, by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is so important to continue to strengthen the Act, its means, its instruments and its action to combat illegality in the precariousness of links, both in the field of working conditions, safety and health at work. these concrete steps, of cross-sectional scope and impact, will benefit all sectors and all workers. And they will benefit even more, of course, the workers in the sectors where the issues of precariousness and quality of employment are more intense, as is clearly the sector of contact centres. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u63	To request clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block was signed. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, of his speech, it is not yet clear what the position of the Government is in relation to the specific proposals that are on the table on the call center sector. But he spoke of a question, that others here have already spoken, that is very important and that is related to collective bargaining. The problem of collective bargaining and collective bargaining in this sector is that they simply do not cover these workers, because the model that is installed in all companies and in many sectors of the State, that the PSI is only an example, is that of false outsourcing and subcontracting.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u66	Therefore, thousands of workers still do not have access to any collective contract because it is chosen by this work model that spreads the precariousness more and more.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u68	That is why we have put forward a proposal to regulate the profession. It is either we go this way or, then, we have to force companies, once and for all, to hire these workers directly. It was therefore important to clarify here what the position of the Government is. Even because the project already presented by the Socialist Party intends that there may be a more comprehensive study on health and safety issues at work on the call centers sector. In fact, even refers to APCC — the Portuguese Contact Centers Association — in which the Socialist Party actually has a very large history and baggage, since it has a Member who has presided over this Association for many years. Therefore, the data exist, there are master's theses and there are doctoral theses, so the reality is suddenly known. It is important to see whether the Government and the Socialist Party will effectively want to make any changes that improve the lives of these workers or not. It is that, as it is, companies do not comply with what is due to workers because they simply do not hire workers. Thus, for EDP, for TAP, for IEFP, for any company or large company using this model, these workers do not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we have to ensure is that these workers are visible, exist and have rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u71	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Government in this regard is very clear. We recognize — and it would be difficult not to do so according to the data we have available — that this is a sector where specific questions arise about the working conditions of workers, where there are levels of precariousness which are, according to the data to which we have access, clearly above the national average and in which, depending on the nature of the activity that is being carried out, if greater follow-up is justified, which the ACT has actually been doing. This is to ensure that there is compliance with the law — and to comply with the law not only with working conditions but also with the question of links. And then, of course, there is all this work to do that, in our view, when we talk about issues that have to do with the professional dimensions of the exercise of the activity, it should preferably be done in collective bargaining, because, in fact, there are company agreements in this sector, it would be important that there be sectoral contracts. And everything that has to do with the regulation of more specific things must be the subject of deepening and work that we will surely be able to do. In any case, with regard to State contracts, we have sought to set an example. And a good example that has been given, even recently, and already by this government, was that, after the former government had been dismantled the social security contact centre in Castelo Branco, the new contact centre that was once again located in Castelo Branco had as one of the fundamental criteria of the contractbook, which was defined for the public tender, the fact that there was a very high percentage of workers with permanent contracts. This example is proof that it is possible to have contact centers with appropriate work practices and with levels of precariousness below those that exist today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u73	He's ruining PS's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u74	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor. I am aware, however, that Mr. Secretary of State does not have time to respond unless some parliamentary group gives him time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u75	It is for an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u76	Of course. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u77	Mr President, my speech at the end of the debate is to say exactly this, Mr Secretary of State: that the workers who are in the social security call should have a link to social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u78	Sure! Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u79	... because they are effective workers of social security, because they respond to the permanent needs of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u80	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u81	Someone who answers the phone and says « Direct Social Security, good morning! , you're saying « Direct Social Security, good morning! "You're not saying "Randstad, good morning! », you're not saying « Time, good morning! » and therefore must be implemented within the framework of social security. Even more so because social security is said to be passing through, it needs these workers « as bread for mouth». Indeed, what has marked this debate either by the Secretary of State or by the PS — because it is also said that, on the part of the PSD and the CDS, we do not expect much to contribute to this debate, either large or small, we do not expect any contribution to this debate, because precariousness in the call centres sector is not confirmed so much in the bond of workers, it is confirmed, yes, in the business option in which the economic groups establish outsourcing contracts and the provision of services with labour subcontracting companies. So the fight against precariousness must be done, first, there, ensuring that workers who are outsourced are not subcontracted through companies, but are hired directly by economic groups and integrated into their frameworks. And they are - precisely for that, because they respond to permanent needs. The workers of the call centers of EDP, PT, MEO or social security are needed every day. Customer service, billing, back office, all this is needed every day. This ensures that the profits of the economic groups are increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u82	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u83	Finally, Mr President, the establishment and regulation of the contact centre worker profession is very important, but it is inseparable from the need to combat the triangulation of labour relations and the fight against precariousness. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the form of an end, I wanted to say, firstly, that it is no surprise at all, we already knew that we could not count on the right, when it comes to protecting workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u86	It's a hell of a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u87	So it wasn't anything new that they brought here. Secondly, I wanted to say that, once again, in this debate, the care and importance that the PS attaches to the protection of workers, especially the most vulnerable, as is the case with the workers of the call centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u88	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u89	Thirdly, I would also like to point out something that is not always widely recognized, which is the need to assess the problem in order to have effective solutions. And it is not with the personal knowledge that one or another member may have care centers or with master's theses that we go there. We need a rigorous study that, in various matters and in several areas, can deepen the living conditions of these workers in order to give them the answer they deserve. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not really a point of arrival, it is a point of departure for the protection of workers and for a solution that makes their work worthwhile. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u90	Mrs. Members, having completed the current debate required by the PS, will consider the report on the evaluation of the national civil protection system in the context of rural fires presented by the Independent Technical Observatory for the analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of this debate on the report submitted by the Independent Technical Observatory, consisting of the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic, I wanted to begin my intervention by quoting the Report itself, when it concludes that « The Government's effort to reverse the situation that has been going through the country in recent years is well known, as a result of lessons learned from 2017 and following the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission ». That is what the Minister of Agriculture and I took up in the two debates we had here on the two reports of the two Independent Technical Committees, consisting of unanimous decision of the Assembly of the Republic, incorporating representatives of all parliamentary groups and independent experts indicated by higher education institutions. The Government has focused all its attention on strengthening prevention, as an absolute priority on the attention to self-protection of populations and on strengthening means of combat. In addition, the Government has developed a deep model of institutional transformation that has led to greater coordination among all civil protection agents, leading in 2018 to positive results in the involvement of populations and all actors and to a final result that corresponded to a 68% reduction in the burning area compared to the average of the last 10 years. We have more prevention. In fact, he never put himself so much on cleaning, on sensitization. This is a battle won by the Portuguese, by the autarchs, by the forest producers, by the owners, by the institutions involved in this fight. As for self-protection, the Safe Village Safe People project is now consolidated. It arrived in 2018 to 1600 Portuguese villages, where it was possible to establish the local security officer and establish mechanisms for the prevention, indication of evacuation zones, of areas of call for attention to the risk of forest fire. This year, we are doing so even sooner, by a definition together by the two Ministries of 1142 risk frequencies and more than 700 first priority. And it is this work that, with the active involvement of ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority ) and GNR ( Republican National Guard ), but also of all structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, in total partnership, we are developing for mobilization, above all, in the frequencies identified as at greatest risk. Finally, the fight against the 125 professional teams formed by firefighters in 2018, because volunteer firefighters are the true backbone of our civil protection system, to the greatest response in an air and efficient environment, which will be even more reinforced this year. It is this experience about the verified evolution that leads us to say that what we have to do is not to lower the guard, it is to do even more and better, mobilising the entire Portuguese society for this collective effort to defend security so that, in this area too, Portugal affirms itself as a country of quality of life, a country of territorial cohesion and one of the safest countries in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u92	For a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u93	Mr. President, I greet you. Members of the Government present and I would also like, if I may, to begin by greeting the members of the Independent Technical Observatory ( OTI ) who are attending the session and who have done a very good job on behalf of the interests of the Portuguese, at the request of this Assembly. I must say that, having had the opportunity, the pleasure and even the honour to attend the public presentation they have made in the Assembly of the Republic, I must regret that the CDS-PP has been the only parliamentary group in this presentation. It's a repair that I can't stop doing publicly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u95	But, Minister, that has nothing to do with you. This is not a criticism of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, who was not present, because, of course, if he had been, he would be present at something for which he was not invited, which is disappointing and therefore would not expect it on his part. By closing this parenthesis, Minister, what you have to do with you is what you are doing in this report. That, yes, has to do with you. And that is what I wanted to talk to you about, because I do not want to give you too much support to a report which is technical and independent. If it is technical and independent, we must not only respect the technical work of technicians, as we must be independent in their analysis. I would like to say to you, Minister — Mrs Patrícia Fonseca will talk about the forest side — that the CDS will not only participate in the consensus that you want, as you will have very concrete proposals in relation to the conclusions of this report. Mr Minister, taking into account what has happened and the work done by this government, not by you, but by this government, your initial intervention has been — allow me to use a little bit of an expression that you know well — a little bit. It was a little bit, Minister! With all due respect! It is because Mr Minister basically came here to say « more, more, more », that there are half means, that there is more prevention, when, on the side of civil protection agents, security forces, firemen, experts have heard that there are « less, less, less ». That is why the Minister did not have a single word. But, worse and worse, Minister, you did not speak of the report itself. The report, technical and independent, did not cease to have a set of criticisms here, to which the Minister here had a good opportunity to respond, speaking in the current system, not only of civil protection, but of forest protection, which is the responsibility of you. I must say that what impressed me most about this report is one page, Minister. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the document he mentioned.]] This page speaks of the National Civil Protection System in the context of rural fires. I don't know if you see it at home, but it's indifferent, because even if people see it, no one can understand the chain of command, nor the way all these entities relate. I'm not saying it's your fault, Minister. What I am saying, and that is why I said that your speech was a bit small, is that you should come here and say "we have identified the problem; the technicians have identified the problem; let's put forward proposals; our proposals are these." You have not done so, and so Mr Minister, I give you a second chance: what are you going to do about this? That's the question. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u96	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u97	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, in fact on the cover of the report I cannot help you, I am not responsible for it. But I assure you that I didn't get through the cover, I read all the contents of the report and, in fact, I began to quote it. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] What I would like to highlight, for the sake of what is a priority for all Portuguese, is the recognition of the significant work developed and what we are doing. It is a work that responds immediately, responded in 2018 and will respond, even more effectively, in 2019. It's almost 200 professional fire crews, more than in the previous 17 years. The restructuring of the system was done, finally giving territorial coherence, i.e., the same structure was adopted in the area of agriculture, internal administration, i.e. in the area of municipal organization. That is, there is consistency in the territorial response, keeping what is a stability factor in the system. The report refers to it, recognises it. More than that, as I said, we have to do even better and more carefully. I don't get the dolls, the government really goes to the cause of things and changes its substance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u98	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to note the importance of this report, of the analyses that are made in it, of the data it highlights, of the reflections it incorporates and of the proposals it makes. the set of experts who have joined this Observatory — some of whom are in the Galerias and which I take advantage of to greet — has come out of an important technical support instrument to whom, like us, it is necessary to make good political decisions. It is fair that this public acknowledgement should be made! Very briefly, we underline some of the ideas and proposals of the report that we believe should be the masters of short- and medium-term political decisions. The first is the progressive convergence between prevention and fire control in rural areas. It doesn't make any sense that prevention is turned off from combat. The work is complementary and at different times. This must be the way forward without hesitation. We want all the forces of an integrated system focused on prevention, most of the year, being these forces available in due time for combat. The imbalance that has existed between prevention and combat in favour of combat has proved to be a mistake of dramatic consequences for the forest, for the populations and for the infrastructure. This is therefore an integrated view, either from the point of view of the rural area or from the point of view of intervention, without subaltering prevention. It is necessary to recover the accumulation of existing entities and structures of the system which overlap and "disturb" to use a word of the report. "The complexity of the system is the result of the complexity of the problem but also of a history of accumulation of entities and structures that are being created over time, being much easier and politically attractive to create new entities or structures than that which I have extinguished or fused them, in order to make it more operational" — I quote. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is therefore here an implicit and very firm criticism of all the governments that have taken place, making the current system more and more awkward, making it less operational. The report states: « Although the areas of action are sometimes well defined, there are often repetitions(...) but sometimes contradictions, almost always inefficiencies and, more or less explicitly, even competition between public bodies which would have the first obligation to cooperate ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is wrong to create more redundant structures, possibly to accommodate relatives, acquaintances and co-religionaries, and to miss the human resources, there, where they really are needed and should be incorporated, for example, in the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests). The fragility to which state services have been subject weakens society, and there are multiple consequences, well emphasized in the Report, of the fragility of the ICNF, which is an essential structure, from the loss of technical capacity to the capacity of planning and sorting. Failures in the implementation of plans of absolute national interest, such as the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity, have been particularly unacceptable and to implement the National Strategy for Forests. Guidance and planning documents are approved which are not implemented. This discredits and depresses the state and public services, creates insecurity in the populations. There are particularly serious shortcomings in the assertion of the ICNF as a national forest authority, at national, regional and local level, in all forest matters and in all ownership regimes, in the technical and political leadership of matters related to forest management and management, particularly in relation to rural fires. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the ICNF has not been able to strengthen its structure; it has been, yes, prevented from doing by the policy of austerity and weight loss of the State starring years on end, either by governments of the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS. There it is, there are more structures, less resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u100	It's yours now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u101	The report also draws attention to the risks of progressing towards greater territorialization of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority without maintaining territorial coherence with other entities, such as GNR and the ICNF. This territorial coherence is particularly serious in the context of forest fire defence, which requires agile structures, with a clear command hierarchy and a well-defined action on the territory. But the observatory experts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, go further and the Left Block follows them at that step. It is also essential in this national system to establish an appropriate level of regional intermediate coordination to function on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. I mean, we need to regionalize. The government, the PS and the PSD that listen well to them and stop decentralizations that are not just from real flops. We need regional bodies, with own democratic legitimacy to have democratic strength and authority, with coordination capacity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, working for populations and with populations in the prevention and fight against fires is a task that requires determination, resources and knowledge. On the side of the Left Block, none of this will be lacking to those who fight for the recovery and development of rural spaces. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: I begin by complimenting you, as well as the members of the Independent Technical Observatory, here present, for the great work you have been doing. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because the government has actually failed. He failed today, failed in 2017 and continues to fail for the concern of all of us, because, despite having at his hand a source of solutions like never had any government, he continues to fail. Of course, it is worth recalling that this Independent Technical Commission — which was created on a proposal from the PSD, and which now has continuity with the Independent Technical Observatory — pointed out failures and the way to address the major errors committed by the government. But last year and a half, the government is still not up to its responsibilities. And the worst thing is that he doesn't seem to have learned from the lessons he should have learnt from 2017. The report by the Independent Technical Observatory, which we are discussing here today, well depicts the shortcomings and shows that the Government, although it has taken some steps - of course - has not yet implemented structural measures of integrated fire-fighting policies. of the concerns indicated, that the PSD accompanies three major factors: Civil Protection, Firefighters and AGIF ( Agency for Integrated Management of Rural Fires ). As for Civil Protection, technicians show great concern with the new Organic Law of Civil Protection. Yes, Mr Minister, because, contrary to what I have said, one of the major concerns is territorial discontinuity, the new territorial organization that is being criticized by technicians. And the government leaves with the new organic law—which has not yet shown anyone, it is true—without listening to anyone and in opposition to the recommendations made. More—and this is one of the major concerns, as the Independent Technical Observatory says —, replaces the CDOS ( Backup Operations Commands ) with the NUT 3 ( Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) and it is not thought that we are almost in the summer. Life and people are at stake, and when lives are at stake, we cannot facilitate them in this way. in this sense, the Observatory asks the Government to "all civil protection agents have the same territorial organization and that, with changes, they are simultaneous and coincident with all actors of the system." That is, if there is a change in the ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ), it has to be extended to all entities, especially the GNR, which currently has a major role in the fires. The technicians still have doubts, which we accompany, as regards the time available for this change. Time is too little! We are now at the end of February and the device will necessarily have to reflect and adapt to the structural changes of the new civil protection organization. Conclusion: What was announced in 2017 is not yet implemented in 2019. The custom! Many promises, few achievements. Mrs. Members, as regards firefighters, the Observatory Report points to weaknesses in the associative and operational component of these professionals. Among these is training. Starting with the firefighters, the OTI recalls that the creation of firefighters' own command is an ancient claim of the class, but warns that this solution cannot be confused, as it seems to be, nor to collide with the consecrated principle of the single command in relief operation, of course, which is decisive. The OTI also recommends that the Government do not change the operational team until the summer and stresses that firefighters have enormous weaknesses. In the face of this problem, they suggest the creation of a programme of incentives and the occupation of firefighters, as you know. Finally, Mr Minister, I do not resist showing the organogram of AGIF. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the document she mentioned.]] Indeed, on a sheet A4 it is not possible to see, so we had to help ourselves with a sheet A3, such is the awkwardness, confusion and the entities that overlap in this new great government bet. AGIF is 'cannibalizing' resources from other entities, exceeding entities in which it appears to be a place of prominence, where no one understands it. Mr Minister, if you do not come to speed up this work we will have everything in the same, or even worse, and the government will not have taken a chance! We'll have another missed opportunity. Is that so, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u104	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we appreciate the report Evaluation of the national civil protection system in the context of rural fires, prepared by the Independent Technical Observatory. in this circumstance, I wanted to take advantage of all the members of the Independent Technical Observatory on behalf of the Greens, whose work is certainly recognized by all of us and which today presents us with a document of great relevance to our forest, our country and the Portuguese. As for the report itself, I cannot refer to all its relevant aspects, and that there are many, but I leave some notes on two aspects to which Greens attach great importance. The first has to do with the ICNF. The report draws attention to the need for the affirmation of the ICNF as a national forest authority, in all forest matters and in all ownership regimes, with a view to technical and political leadership of matters related to forest management and management. It is further recommended that the Institute for the Conservation of Nature and Forests should take a more active and active attitude among the populations and organisations of forest producers, not only reacting after forest fires. In the Greens'perspective this is an important recommendation, but to be taken seriously by the political decision-makers, particularly by this House, requires a great strengthening of the human and technical resources of the ICNF. Investment in prevention cannot be in the background and it would be good for this report to also be seen as a call for the necessary strengthening of the ICNF's resources so that this body can develop its work and its responsibilities, because in the field of forest fires, it can play an absolutely central role, especially at the level of prevention. While it is true that over the past three years, the number of nature monitors has increased significantly, annually and gradually, in the wake of Green proposals and the constant insistence we have made with the Government, it is also true that even more human resources and technical means are needed to enable the ICNF to develop its tasks, in particular as regards the prevention of forest fires. On the other hand, and this is the second aspect that the Greens wanted to stress, in the prevention chapter, the report includes — and, in our view, well — a matter which, in this context, takes particular importance and which has to do with raising awareness. Moreover, the recommendations of the Observatory on this matter go exactly to the meeting of Resolution No 9 / 2018, which this House approved, on the initiative of the Greens, and which, among other aspects, recommends that the Government promote awareness-raising, strategic and proximity campaigns aimed at fire prevention and to disseminate widely the contents of these campaigns. In view of this important report, it is absolutely necessary for its recommendations to be taken into account in future political decisions, particularly by the Government and this House, because otherwise we will completely lose the meaning of this work presented to us by the Independent Technical Observatory. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u106	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we are discussing another report, this of the Independent Technical Observatory, whose work here we welcome; a report like so many others that are lost in the drawers of this House and its ministries. We see the call of attention that is made to the appreciation that this Observatory makes of the PROF (regional forestry planning plans). What did the government do? Mock ears! This report is another contribution that reinforces the concerns and proposals of the CFP, plus a report that points to the right-wing policy of recent decades, in which PS, PSD and CDS are being given. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we start with the ICNF. The report says that over the past two decades, the ability of the ICNF to deal with so many and so demanding competences, especially at regional and local level has been diminished. It is seen that this entity is devalued at the political level and that there is a gradual de-investment, with obvious consequences on its performance and ability to fulfil its tasks, a weakness identified by the ICNF itself as well as by other entities participating in the system, which has diminished its credibility with them. How many times have we said this? Oh, my God! Who should be given this responsibility? Oh, my God! Deinvestment is not now! It has the responsibility of the successive governments that have greatly devalued the role of the ICNF. As the CFP claims, it is necessary to strengthen the ICNF and its structures by providing them with human, material and technical resources to enable them to effectively fulfil their role. As for forest slag teams, they have a decisive action, being involved all year round, whether in structural prevention, surveillance or combat. The report denounces the difficulties for which we have both warned and says that the achievement of the established targets, of creating annually 20 forest slag teams by 2012, or the goal established in the 2006 National Forest Strategy, which aimed at the existence of 500 forest slag teams by 2020, remains far from a reality. How many times have we said the same thing? Oh, my God! Who do these responsibilities have to be attributed to? Oh, my God! And again, the current government has failed to meet what is contained in the Forest Defense System Against Fires, nor the proposal of the CFP approved in the State Budget Act 2018. It is true that there will have been more than 11 teams, but it is far less than the 200 teams that were supposed to be set up in two years. In addition, it must be considered that the work of forest slags is physically very demanding, with much responsibility, but without recognized career and with low wages. That is how it is difficult to make this profession attractive! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to post-fire intervention, the report states that it is necessary to carry out prompt measures for exceptional situations in order to enable emergency stabilization, immediate recovery of infrastructure, equipment and goods located in the affected areas. This confirms the validity of the PCP proposal aimed at creating a manual of procedures for post-fire situations. Who led it? PS, PSD and CDS. There are many examples. We could talk about the four decades of right-wing policy that led to this state. This is also an example of the news coming this week to the public that the PSD/CDS government will have renegotiated the contracts with the road dealers, accepting the reduction of the fuel management bands from 10 meters to 3 meters, disregarding the legislation in force and calling into question the safety of the populations and owners, faithful to their policy of blind cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u109	This report is another contribution to the path that needs to be made. But without public services, without employment, without support for small and medium-sized agriculture and small forest producers and without appreciation of the price of wood, we are not going there! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I wanted to begin by leaving a special word for the members of the Independent Technical Observatory who are attending the session. The Independent Technical Observatory issued, this week, an information note on the extremely critical regional forest planning plans of these PEFs, in particular because a set of observations that the Observatory had made in December have not been integrated. I highlight three points in particular: the fact that the targets of the various species for 2030 and 2050 have not been reviewed; the fact that the area of eucalyptus, which is referred to in particular, is equal to or greater than the reference areas in 2010; and also the fact that the eucalyptus is of the species to be privileged in a number of regions in parallel with other native species. On this subject, the CDS makes a slightly different analysis than the interpretation of the Independent Technical Observatory. First of all, because the forest production cycle is 10 to 50 years, or more, in the case of overcrowding, so it does not seem strange that there is some stability, over 10, 20 or 30 years, in what are the goals. With regard, in particular, to the area of eucalyptus, the reference is 2010, nine years have passed, and therefore it is natural - and it seems to us that this has happened - that the PROFs have to incorporate the areas that have been planted in the meantime. That, for us, of course. The caricature is that it is a government supported by the PCP and the Left Block that announced that there would be no more acre of eucalyptus — the Minister referred so much to the national strategy for forests! — and to propose now the increase of the area of eucalyptus! It is not for us, how you should calculate, Minister! We have no problem with that. Even yesterday in the debate of the motion of censure, the Prime Minister came to make a statement in the logic that a repeated lie often becomes a reality. He said it was already with the legal regime of trees that fired the area of eucalyptus, when, from 2010 until now, the average area of eucalyptus was 3000 hectares per year and, in the past, between 1995 and 2010, was 6000 hectares per year. It is good to be present in the head of all people, at home and here, that the increase in the area of eucalyptus was smaller! As for the fact that the eucalyptus is a species to be preferred, we are not surprised either. And why? Because it was the government itself that, when it decided to prohibit the increase in the area of eucalyptus, it said that it would find a clearing mechanism, transfer of areas and present a map, which had precisely the regions of the coast and of Lisbon and Tejo Valley as preferred areas for the eucalyptus! So if he's gonna be torn off on one side, he'll have to increase on the other. In conclusion, I wanted to say that we agree at all with the need for better planning and better forestry management. What is interesting to us is that the proposals that the CDS has submitted for better management, to favour the native species, which are those that are not profitable without public policies and without support and incentives, have been systematically rejected in this House, either by PS, or by the Left Block, or by the PCP. That's what we have to regret! In this respect, we agree at all that we should bet on better management, better forestry. In conclusion, Mr Minister, it is regrettable that the forest measures in the RDP (Rural Development Programme) have only 35 % implementation and an immense associated bureaucracy which is discouraging forest owners from investing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u112	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, who benefits from the further 1 minute supplement given to you by the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u113	You must review the time of the unregistered Member! If he doesn't use it, he has to see himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: We had the opportunity to read the report under discussion and concluded that, despite the various efforts to combat fires, the fact is that the State fails all over the world. From the beginning to the end there is nothing that runs well to 100 %. We still do not have a true fire prevention policy. At the time of the crisis, there are still serious failures in the detection and articulation of entities in the fight against fire and in the protection of people. Even in the post-fire, there are failures in mitigating impacts and taking measures to recover burned areas. of the reading of the report is evident: awareness-raising actions, increased resilience of populations and the forest itself continue to exist; the ICNF continues to have vast responsibilities in this area, but without sufficient means to respond to them; civil protection continues to invest in the fight against fires and almost nothing in prevention, also due to lack of means. Then there are the firemen. The State shall, in order to ensure its functions, not resort to voluntary police, voluntary doctors or voluntary civil protection technicians. Why is the firefighting system dependent on volunteers? I ask this, obviously not wanting to take credit for these people, which is a lot, but we need too much. We need more professionalization, more training and more recognition. The State continues to leave people, animals and forests in an eminent risk situation. The question posed to the Government is this: how long?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u115	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I begin by welcoming the Independent Technical Observatory and by mentioning that we have also been presenting this Report. We were not in the initial phase, but the PS was present in this same presentation. Mr Minister, I am not going to show you any map, I am not going to show you the cover of the Independent Technical Observatory Report, because we both know that we are facing a complex, dense civil protection system involving a set of structures and entities, since the problems are also very demanding, these problems that we have increasingly to prevent, combat and face with the strengthening of means that we have come to have. In fact, we are living in a climate of permanent disasters, natural and human disasters, which are increasingly demanding national scale but also European scale, as is the European civil protection mechanism. What matters is, above all, to train more, to use knowledge, innovation and science also at the service of civil protection, to monitor more and better, which is what we are doing, professionalize, specialize, coordinate and communicate. It is important to communicate well, clearly, efficiently and safely. Mr Minister, I would also like to say that the systemic reform that we are undergoing is the result of the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission and also of the Government's own Programme, which has defined, and as a matter of priority, the development of the preventive approach of the civil protection system, the creation of communities that are resistant and resistant to risk and the improvement of operational response. This has been our way: to reconcile the Government programme, demanding in this regard, with the relevant conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission, taking into account the drama of the fires that have occurred. I am also referring to the fact that the Observatory's report is important, because it brings together the Assembly of the Republic, the relevant committees, proposals and analyses, both from a structural point of view and from a sectoral point of view. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also recognises and appreciates support, because political action needs to be increasingly empowered to make such action also qualified. That is why it is a good contribution to our work. All or much of the recommendations in this report force us to work on a set of workfronts that are relevant. We are working on these fronts and we are focused on investing, adding more equipment, as happened with the recovery and construction of squares, including 69 quarters, in a total of EUR 31 million, with the obtaining of more 78 operational cars and the creation of 20 new medical emergency posts. We have added even more human resources, more operational resources to the system, since we know that on the right there was clearly a de-investment, decapitalization both in human resources, at the level of forests and at the level of civil protection, both in operational means. The map they could have brought, sirs. Members of the CDS and PSD, it was the de-investment map always falling in this sector as well. I would also like to say, Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, that climate change and threats posed to the people urge all of us to strengthen, and well, prevention, surveillance, monitoring, awareness-raising, investment and combat, which we have been doing, is a welcome step forward. Today we have more permanent intervention teams. In fact, for those who are so critical of what we are doing, I mean that this government has contributed 46 % of the total of the existing permanent intervention teams today, which is a significant value and volume. There are also a set of social and fiscal benefits, which have already been completed and implemented, which are fundamental and which have placed justice in our system, at the level of our firefighters, with the exemption of vehicle tax on the purchase of operational vehicles, among other measures, and a set of important diplomas that create the Emergency, Protection and Relief Unit in the Republican National Guard, the car industry of the Florestal Guard and the new model of training in civil protection, as well as the warning system for the population. It is in final negotiation, and already with the ideal contribution of all agents and the league in particular, a new law for the National Civil Protection Authority, a new law that changes the paradigm, which reformes the National Authority at the level of prevention, at the level of planning, at the level of coordination of all civil protection agents in response to disasters and serious accidents. This is a new territorial model that will give consistency to the State's own administrative organization and improve the resources of the National Authority, which now has three national directions and an inspection. In other words, it is a very important reform and a change of paradigm, in constructive dialogue, and it has now added another dimension of decentralization, where the authorities go, at the level of the municipal civil protection system, to have an important change and a qualitative leap, since, also at this level and at the level of this territorial base, it is essential to be given more and more of a constant presence in this climate of so much demand, where the answers must be qualified and increasingly demanding. This is our design: prevention at the level of civil protection. Prevention! Prevention! It is a national design, it is a design of all of us, for which we are all summoned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u117	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State: We want to begin by congratulating the elements of the Technical Observatory here present to attend the session and thanking the Report, which brings an effective set of important contributions and recommendations, many of them of operational charis, therefore, very directed to the Government, also bringing a reflection on the model of civil protection we have. Inadequacies, problems, difficulties and a complex system in its management are detected. In view of this reality, the CFP had already presented draft resolution No 1488/ XIII/3. a — For a new civil protection policy. in this draft resolution, going to meet what is also identified in the report of the Technical Observatory, there is a central issue, the central issue of the civil protection model, which does not only involve the fight against fires. First, it goes by assessing the risks, needs and risk cards in our country; secondly, by adapting the means to the territory we have and the risks identified in those letters; and only thirdly, by building the structure of organic law. Well, none of that happened. We have had the reversal of the process: we have had the government to discuss organic law without precaution of the other two components of reality. A second aspect that we highlighted in this draft resolution, which, for us, is fundamental and which has, in fact, proved problematic in the management of the political process, is that the discussion of the civil protection model that we want for our country had to have as an essential basis a broad debate with all civil protection agents. We have repeatedly said that a civil protection model cannot be built without opening the discussion to the public. Now, the option of closing offices, building a model, presenting it, and then discussing it, has turned out to be a disaster in the sight of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u119	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u120	Finally, Mr President, I would say that we highlight in this draft resolution three important measures, which are the following: firstly, the formation of the first civil protection agent, the citizen, who is the first line of combat in civil protection, valuing self-protection, but considering that it is necessary to go much further, particularly in schools, where we have to generalise self-protection and training for civil protection. Secondly, we highlight the issues of financing and the social status of firefighters, which must effectively deserve re-establishment and valorization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u121	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u122	To conclude, we highlight a new regime of firemen financing, without which we cannot move forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u123	Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the members of the Independent Technical Commission and saying that in good time the PSD presented the proposal to set up this Independent Technical Commission. With the publication of this report, it is increasingly confirmed that Portugal needs a unit such as this and, above all, with this importance. This report completely overthrows the government in these matters, allowing us to put the government's lack of strategy for a real forest policy. It proves this, although it is not addressed in this report, according to an information note from the Observatory of 18 February, the Government has once again wasted the opportunity to implement a true forest planning policy, which is why the PSD can only point out that what is happening in the forest sector is the publication of a series of diplomas based on primitive errors resulting from political management commitments. These errors, first of all, are to disregard private property, noting that 95 % of the forest is private and that, of this percentage, more than 85 % are small owners, unable to collect any income from these parcels or to manage them and bear costs of prevention and cleaning. The PSD advocates measures to encourage the joint management of rustic buildings so that a more orderly and profitable forest can be found. Another basic error lies in the discrimination of forest species without scientific support, based only on ideological prejudices and political commitments. But it seems to have forgotten that Portugal loses about 10,000 hectares of forest a year, becoming the only country in Europe whose forest area has declined. The government has despised the economic dimension and the importance that the forest sector represents in the national economy, forgetting that public forest policy necessarily has a focus on the productive component. It is also proposed, in the context of the recovery of the territory after the fires in Portugal, that the conditions of the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme ) forest measures be considered and amended to make them more adapted to the areas to be recovered and to the conservation and service interests of the ecosystem. It can also be read in the Report that in the funds from PDR 2020, public expenditure for the restoration of forest affected by biotic and abiotic agents or by catastrophic events is clearly reduced. Moreover, it is strongly recommended that more agile and flexible forms of action be created by the responsible public bodies, such as the Institute for Conservation of Nature, for this agileization. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Observatory not only makes recommendations, it also points out serious errors and failures in the action and policy of the current government, which is still very serious. at the level of controlled fire, it is very clear, saying: « the targets presented by the ICNF for, within 5 years, reach 250 000 hectares, i.e. 50 000 hectares per year treated with the use of prescribed burn is a value that falls short of the exaggeration, not taking into account the current annual averages which do not reach 2000 hectares per year ». Therefore, it is appropriate to ask the Government whether it will meet the objectives of the ICNF and intensify the use of controlled fire. Since then, the recent approval of the regional forest planning plans has been subject to harsh criticism by this Observatory in this information note. Technicians have even reported that they consider the new PROF plus a « missed opportunity », since they do not consider the main recommendation of the Observatory, with a view to revising the objectives of the composition of the forest by 2030 and 2050, a revision which they consider absolutely necessary, stating that in none of the regions of the PROF has been made any change to the values of the proposed targets. Such an event is still very serious. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In terms of forest policy, the PSD considers that the so-called forest reform has been and is unfortunately a missed opportunity because political prejudices and radicalisms do not allow forest to be viewed as an economic, social and environmental asset. The objective of the PSD was to equip the country with an Independent Technical Observatory, which would validate policies in technical terms and within the scope of the current government. Let us hope that the country can take advantage of it and implement it, since this government, unfortunately, has not done so until today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u125	Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The civil protection system, in its relationship with rural fires, is still changing, a change that is not complete, and that is where we must begin. Perhaps, in the cover they say they have many balls and many squares still lack one more, which is the reference to the Independent Technical Observatory, because it is also part of this complexity. This report, signed by the Observatory, portrays this very thing: a system in change, but in the right trajectory, and therefore does not provide adjustments, alerts, improvements and corrections, some of them referred to in the conclusions of this document. But this chapter should not exempt us from stressing and highlighting what has already been achieved, even with the ‘airplane’ — read the ‘system’ — in full flight. From now on, we want to emphasize an unprecedented mobilization of resources for the prevention pillar, which was systematically identified as the poor relative of the system. Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel, in his speech, should be referring to 2015, 2014, 2013,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u127	...because, indeed, this government has laid decisively on the prevention pillar. In the three years of this Government, the value executed by the Permanent Forestry Fund was over EUR 80 million, exceeding the value executed by the PSD/CDS Government and then the Ministry led by Mrs Cristas. If we take into account the budgeted value for 2019, the value rises to more than 135 million, which, in view of the four years of your previous government, represents more than double the value invested in the Portuguese forest, favouring the pillar of prevention, forest planning and active management of forest resources. However, we want to go further. The bet on forest slags is decisive for the performance of the whole system, because whoever prevents combat and who fights prevents. rather than what the previous government did, which completed its mandate in 2015 with 272 forest slag teams, this government in 2019 will have 500 forest slag teams in full operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where is the'minus', Mr Nuno Magalhães, when what this government is doing is'more'? Oh, my God! You were wrong in the sign: it is not « less», it is « more»! We've already seen the page of austerity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, I would like to stress the enormous effort made by this Government in other areas which also compete to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the prevention of rural fires. I stress, of course, not only the creation of AGIF, but also a new ICNF, with an organic this time attacked the territory, equipped with resources and resources that will allow you the full performance of your mission. I also refer to the incorporation of scientific knowledge into the system, the increasing professionalization and training of agents, the definition of minimum unit, the approval of tax incentives, the appreciation of ecosystem services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u129	... registration, ZIFs ( forest intervention zones ), UGFs ( forest management units ), EGFs ( forest management entities ), the new Baldios Act,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u131	... the growing number of controlled fire actions, which are very good examples of what underpins the choice of this right path. Mr President, I conclude by saying that this is the way that leads us to make a commitment and an agenda for the entire national territory, where the country can definitely sign its future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has already talked about the intention of territorial reorganization of the civil protection system, but said nothing about other entities that are absolutely fundamental to the civil protection system, namely the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the IUCF. Furthermore, this report draws attention to this situation, saying that any restructuring of the system should ensure the coherence of the territorial organization of all entities, institutions and instruments, and therefore, if there are changes, they should be simultaneous, coherent and consistent for all actors of the system, with a single, stable and lasting territorial organization. I ask you, Minister, whether this recommendation is welcomed by the Government. I would also like to ask you again a question that I have been asking for almost four years and for which the firefighters and the professional firefighters of the local administration have been waiting for several years, in fact, for decades. Mr Minister, when will the so-called valorisation of local firefighters finally take place? How long will these men and women risk their lives earning 600 € a month?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u134	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. How long will these professionals wait for the uniformization of careers in order to appreciate their mission and to dignify their duties? We are talking about something Mr. Minister is already saying that he will do from the beginning of this legislature and it will continue to happen. So, Minister, when is the uniformization of careers?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u136	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u137	For when is the appreciation of these professionals? For when is this professionalism the same for everyone? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u138	For a new intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I look to see that the PS attaches great importance to forest slags, but should be referring to those 272 who already existed in the previous government,... [[Protests from PS Francisco Rocha.]] ...because everyone else will be next, they will be next and they are not yet hired. Finally, after turning the page of austerity, we continue with difficulties. In addition, Mr Francisco Rocha, I must tell you that memory and respect for the dead were good for him. [[PS protests.]] Admit, assume the catastrophe and the responsibilities for what happened in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u140	More than 100 people died!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u141	It was not in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 or 2015, it was in 2017! It's your responsibility! It would be nice to assume and apologize! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u142	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u143	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u144	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u146	Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Emília Cerqueira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u147	Mr President, the appeal is to the Bureau, it is not to Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u148	I wanted to ask the honourable Member to indicate the part of my speech in which I referred to any death...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u149	Sir, I haven't told you yet...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u150	... in the 2017 fire tragedy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u151	Sir, I'm sorry, but I didn't give you the floor for that. The honourable Member asked for an appeal to the Bureau, but when I gave the floor, he addressed Mrs Emília Cerqueira. The question is either to the Bureau or to Mrs Emília Cerqueira. To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation we are making of this report on the national civil protection system, in the perspective of the Ministry of Agriculture, is inseparable from the great design of this legislature, which is the reform of the forest. This reform, which has been successfully implemented, which I think is now unanimously recognized, was included in the Government Programme in 2015, was launched in 2016, was the subject of three Councils of dedicated ministers and at the moment more than 40 diplomas are published. The entire legal building is built, and we are seeking to respond to four major areas of intervention. First of all, I refer to forest management, within which we have created forest management entities, forest management units and the Florestgal public enterprise. As far as planning is concerned, we have spent three years, since the international public competition, with the involvement of three universities and conceptual specialists, to draw up the regional forest planning programmes, which have been approved a few weeks ago and are now going to be drawn up in the municipal directorates' plans, thus making a real revolution in the field of forest planning. We raised the issue of registration, but Parliament only authorized us to move forward in 10 municipalities. We have applied it for one year, it is a recognized success and now we hope that Parliament will approve the extension of this measure to the entire national territory as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u153	We always wanted it to be extended!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u154	We have also made decisive progress in defending the forest against fires with various measures, in addition, following the Independent Technical Commission, which was approved by this Parliament and in which the Government drew inspiration when in October 2017 it approved all its proposals. That is why this report is now being drawn up by some of the members who constitute the Observatory and who have joined the Independent Technical Commission. Therefore, I would say that the Government inspired the Independent Technical Commission and that the Observatory was inspired by the action of the Government, because the Report confirms, both in the proposals and in the diagnosis, that the path that is being traced is the one that comes from the Independent Technical Commission, which the Observatory now recommends. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Institute for Conservation of Nature, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I am referring to: from now on, its new organic law, which is currently in the Presidency of the Republic for promulgation; its regionalisation, with five regional directors, who will simultaneously be members of the national directorate of the Institute for Conservation of Nature; and the strengthening of its human and material resources, with 100 technicians immediately as priority for filling vacancies in the territory. As far as forest slags were concerned, he demanded some of them. Members, in particular Mrs Emília Cerqueira, a bit of a shame. Mrs Deputy, I myself created the forest scaffolds in 1999 and 17 years later came across virtually the same equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira and the CDS-PP Member Patrícia Fonseca.]] Since then, we have hired almost so many others, re-equipped the old ones, increased their financial conditions, changed their status and, therefore, we are also following up on what the Observatory recommends, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also with regard to the recommendations on processes, both in planning and in fuel management, in three years we are doing what has been done in the last 15 years. For example, in terms of fuel management ranges, this year's targets are more than 3000 km. We therefore have an ambitious set of goals and the financial effort is enormous: this year, EUR 160 million is allocated to prevention, of which EUR 103 million is supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. We are therefore making an unprecedented effort. In conclusion, I will say that this debate has shown and the Observatory's report shows that the Government is pursuing the right path, and successfully. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u155	Of course, there are a set of additional suggestions and recommendations, which the Government will appreciate, but I repeat, the Report...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u156	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u157	... confirms the correctness of the way in which the Government is heading in this area and with it responds to the desires of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u158	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having completed the evaluation of the report of the Independent Technical Observatory, we moved to the third point, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the Draft Resolution Nos 1668 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government that it proceed with ANAC - National Civil Aviation Authority the necessary conditions for improving the operationality of the International Airport of Madeira-Christian Ronaldo and 1757 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote with ANAC the study of the optimization of the operationality of the Madeira-Christian International Airport To present the PS initiative, Mr Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss two draft resolutions that aim to improve the operation of Madeira airport. Considering that this infrastructure is essential to ensure the mobility of the citizens of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and is also the main entry of tourists and bearing in mind that tourism has a fundamental weight in the economy of Madeira, it is consensual, I think, that improving airport operating conditions is fundamental to the sustainability of the region. As is known, aircraft landing conditions are more than 50 years old, at a time when aircraft were other, when the runway had not yet been increased and operating conditions assessment technologies were not as sophisticated as they exist today. Therefore, with this initiative we request that, as soon as possible, more technologically updated studies and mechanisms be carried out to assess aircraft landing operations in safety conditions and that these assessment instruments can also contribute to greater efficiency of air operations at Madeira airport. We know, however, that after these draft resolutions have given in, ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), together with other entities and in coordination with the working group that was created for this purpose, has a ongoing process for the implementation of these evaluation mechanisms, but we also know that its installation and entry into operation will take its time. Therefore, what we continue to put on the table is that this process takes place as quickly as possible, so as to close this chapter on the operational issue of Madeira airport. But we know that the introduction of these new assessment systems is just that, instruments for assessing weather conditions. The fact is that nothing guarantees us that, with these mechanisms, the number of operations will increase, under unfavourable conditions like those that happened last year, for example. Therefore, even if the implementation of new mechanisms improves airport operationality, it might be prudent to start thinking about a plan that also includes Porto Santo Airport and a maritime connection between the most efficient islands, a strategy of complementarity in contingency cases, such as those that arose several times last year. It is that despite the fact that, within a year or two, we can count on a new system of evaluation of Madeira’s operation, the fact is that situations of airport inoperativeity can continue to happen and connectivity with Madeira must continue to exist safely, but also with efficiency and competitiveness. In conclusion, it presented a challenge here both to the Government of the Republic and to the Regional Government of Madeira, to ANA ( Airports de Portugal ) and to other competent and interested entities to find further solutions beyond that of the introduction of new evaluation mechanisms that can help Madeira's air operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u160	Mr Paulo Neves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter of the operationality of Madeira airport has already been placed many times, both by the Autonomous Region of Madeira and by ourselves, the Social Democratic Party, here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the competent bodies. Even so, of course, we consider it to be a timely matter, and it is, above all, useful to push the Government of the Republic and some institutions to do their work and to assume their responsibilities once and for all. The Madeira International Airport lacks updated studies on the winds, until it makes any sense we are tied to results with 55 years when both the airport infrastructure and its own planes and also the means associated with its operation are, of course, today, completely different from what they were 55 years ago. It is essential to update and revise the limits of the winds based on the meanwhile verified evolution. Mr President, that is why we are critical of the Republic's delay in this case. We emphasize that this issue of Madeira airport is associated with mobility, but also with the economy. It is not acceptable for the Portuguese State to continue to ignore the solution to this problem, even more amplified when we are talking about an island region which, in addition to being damaged in its internal, national mobility, has also been penalized on account of these delays and air cancellations in what is its main economic activity, and we are talking about tourism. It is therefore urgent — I would say very urgently — for all studies to be carried out, which implement all the processes of improvement, being the full responsibility of the Government of the Republic to lead and pay for all this process, which is already delayed and whose studies we require the credible institutions, and indeed the PSD has been asking for it for a long time. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, this recommendation that the Social Democratic Party makes for an operational study of Madeira airport is characterized by the following: first, it is urgent; second, it is already late; third, it is of enormous importance; fourth, we need quick technical solutions, new scientific and technical data on this matter. All this without ever—and I end by saying it—without ever questioning the safety of the people and planes that use Madeira airport. We're talking about a national issue. We are talking about a question that has to do with mobility, with the economy of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and which undoubtedly deserves the attention of the national authority and also of the Government of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u162	Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the draft resolutions that are being discussed here. The continued inoperative nature of Madeira International Airport, more often in the last two years, has brought numerous constraints on the mobility of residents in the region and tourists visiting it and therefore drags with it grave social and economic difficulties to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Country. I give a recent example: last Thursday, February 14, 14 flights were cancelled and others diverged. For these reasons and because of the impasse that is created in a study related to this problem, the Left Block is associated with both of the recommendations discussed here. The study, which has long been talked about, for possible reduction of wind levels conducive to aircraft landings and takeoffs, should evolve in order to arrive at technical and scientific conclusions which, we admit, require time, studies and statistics in series and in-depth analyses to achieve reliable conclusions and technically set out those same levels for their operationality, always with the utmost caution of the safety of people and goods. It is therefore important to continue and evolve in these studies by ANAC, in partnership with LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ), with the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere), with NAV Portugal, E.P.E. with ANA ( Airports de Portugal ) and representatives of the operators TAP and EsasyJet, of the Association of the Portuguese Pilots of Linea Aeroea ( APPLA ), of operators and with the collection of contributions from the aircraft manufacturers. But because this decision should be, in the opinion of the Left Block, more technical than policy, and one may in the future conclude that there are changes to these limits, or not, the winds will continue to occur and the least or greater operationality is a certainty in the future. It is appropriate to list here, and today, political measures for the short term and that, failing to resolve the inoperability of Madeira airport, could mitigate the situations that are coming to take place. Mrs. Deputies Luís Vilhena and Paulo Neves, I refer to an integrated management plan of the two airports, Madeira and Porto Santo, also designated by contingency plan, of which much has been spoken in the region, but again, without any advance of implementation on the ground. And here there are a number of political decisions, which are shared between the PS and the PSD, which bring us these two recommendations here. This integrated plan, which is fundamental to mitigating the adverse effects of inoperativeity, requires several specific conditions of the installed status quo, namely: putting an end to the monopoly, long-standing interest installed in the maritime connection between the two islands and opening international competition for a fast, durable and in-service public transport connection, to escort any diverted passengers to Porto Santo Airport, responsibility of the Regional Government and the PSD ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u164	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u165	... requalify the station of Porto Santo Airport, adapting it to the 21st century, and expand the parking platform of current aircraft to 20, responsibility of ANA and the national government and PS ; provide the Porto Santo Airport with technological instruments, support offices and human resources,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u166	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u167	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... the responsibility of the Regional Government, the PSD, the ANA and the National Government, the PS ; to extend the offer of tourist accommodation throughout the year on the island of Porto Santo to accommodate tourists and residents in the diverted Madeira, the responsibility of the Regional Government and the Municipal House of Porto Santo, both of the PSD. Therefore, in an architectural country, mobility and air and maritime transport must definitely be assumed as one of the main priorities of political action...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u168	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u169	I will now finish, Mr President. ... the regional government, the PSD, and the national government, the PS, because, with great interest in your recommendations for the future, the solution required here is for the immediate future. Communicate, within your parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u170	Mr President, I shall be obliged to take your floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u171	... they understand and rule! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u172	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS also agrees and supports the initiatives brought here today the debate. It is that the problem, in addition to being known and recurrent, affects more than 200 000 passengers, but affects more than that. It affects the destination Portugal, affects Madeira's tourist product and affects the right to mobility between Portugal and the islands. Therefore, the causes are known, even with the increase of the track and the effect it has on track 23, the bubble effect, which causes there to be turbulence and winds crossed at the head of the track, which makes, in fact, risky and dangerous any landing that is not within the limits established. If it is true that so far TAP was the only company that flew to Madeira and, as such, used experienced pilots, and could therefore, from time to time, have different criteria, we cannot ignore that other pilots, other companies, are flying there today. So what the CDS does not see with good eyes is that, to mitigate the danger of the winds, it risks itself. Therefore, security must be above all and there must be zero tolerance for another solution. In fact there are solutions that go through collaboration between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government. How? It was said here: improving Porto Santo Airport as an alternative airport, therefore improving the conditions of the airport itself, with more parking, with more waiting rooms, with more check-in, at the bottom, with more capacity to serve as an alternative, and then improving connections between Porto Santo and Funchal airport to allow it to be a true alternative. We, CDS, had the opportunity to visit Madeira and there were those who thought Porto Santo Airport should be Madeira airport, since climate conditions offer another guarantee. But I think that, if there is cooperation here — and here the Government of the Republic must indeed have an added responsibility — the possibility of finding those solutions. There are technological solutions—with wind shear, with more effective wind measurements—there are navigation and approach solutions to the track, today there are equipment that solve the problem, whether the RNAV(Area Navigation) or the FMS (Flight Management System), which are ultimately traffic management systems that can improve the approach in certain climatic conditions, allowing the landing of flights. In other words, the solutions are many and cost the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government. In conclusion, I would like to point out the principles that I think should be protected: security, of course, and then the product, which is relevant, because it is good not to forget that Madeira wins Oscars after Oscars as one of the best islands of tourist destination, and to improve the national destination, Portugal — and Madeira is part of that — and it is obviously necessary to improve accessibility. In fact, I believe that the companies themselves will be able to cooperate because they are, on the limit, to bear the costs of flights that do not land, of flights that have to differ. Therefore, I believe that, having support and unanimity on the initiatives presented here, the conditions are created for the two governments, in the near future, to be able to find solutions in which there are still more flights to land and fewer passengers affected. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u174	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course, the draft resolutions presented here can only have our agreement. Of course, they are very similar, one of the projects proposes that it be promoted, the other proposes that it be careful, but that it be promoted and that it be diligent will give it all, and in fact, the essential thing is to try to contribute to solving a problem that is serious and very meaningful, which has to do with the operating conditions of Madeira airport. Obviously, there is a security issue that needs to be safeguarded. I think that's unquestionable and all the gentlemen. Members who have spoken have referred to this, i.e. security cannot, in any case, be called into question. The basis for the draft resolutions is that the criteria that have been adopted in relation to safety, perhaps, will be out of date. Therefore, studies according to existing technology will allow to revise these criteria in order to ensure better operating conditions in security at Madeira airport. This is because, of course, the unpredictability that is associated with the issue of the cross-winds of Madeira airport, which in many circumstances prevent planes from landing, causes damage of different order, and not only to tourism but, of course, also in tourism, which is perhaps the most significant economic activity in the region. This question of wind causes damage to the mobility of populations, in particular people who need to travel to and from Madeira for their professional activity, their business, to receive medical care that does not exist in Porto Santo and exist in Madeira, or perhaps in situations where there are better conditions in the territory of the continent for the same assistance. Therefore, all that is done to improve the operating conditions of Madeira airport is welcome and must be done. However, and since we are now discussing this issue related to Madeira's mobility, it is time to resume the legislative process relating to the reimbursement of air tickets and to discuss the conditions of air accessibility to the island of Porto Santo which are tremendously deficient, with serious damage to the resident populations and which resist living on the island of Porto Santo. This is when it is known that there is not even a ticket that allows a passenger on the continent to have access in appropriate conditions to air tickets to the Port Santo, which obviously causes tremendous damage to those populations. And there is also a need to check the operating conditions of the airport on that island. Therefore, there is a whole world of issues related to airport accessibility to the Autonomous Region of Madeira that need to be equationed, but of course, without prejudice to this discussion that matters, we agree with the draft resolutions that are under discussion today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u176	To close the debate on this item on the agenda, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is good to see that there is a broad consensus in this House on the importance of finding, as quickly as possible, a solution to the difficulties of operation at Madeira airport. But I wanted to need something that seems very important to me: we do not do the apology of irresponsibility and therefore this draft resolution is not to reduce the wind limits at Madeira airport. It is important that this is very clear. This draft resolution is to do what seems essential to us: to study, to study, to study as much as possible, with the technology that is available today, with the context that we have today in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and also with the devices that fly there, in order to realize whether or not there is room for manoeuvre so that these limits are changed. They are very different things and this is not a more technical matter than politics, this is even a technical issue. So what this draft resolution wants to do is basically ensure that, as soon as possible, there is a timetable — it is the only thing we ask for — that let us know when we will have the results of this study, when the equipment will be installed and how long these equipment takes to be able to have the information needed to assess the issues related to these wind limits in a more finer and deeper way. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group knows that who leads the working group is the ANAC. And I would also like to say, from now on, that it is not worth keeping and throwing a mess over who it is, because who leads that working group to assess and do studies related to this matter of wind limits is ANAC. It is clear that several entities, many entities participate, but it is this working group that must establish this timetable and tell the Maderians when these limits are defined, when these studies are ready and what impact they will have. This phase is essential for us to be able to work on other issues that have been mentioned here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u178	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u179	I'm done now, Mr. President. He said that this phase is essential for us to be able to work on other issues that have been put forward by some Members and that are equally important, in particular the familiar contingency plan. It is absolutely essential that there be a contingency plan and that all, Republic, Autonomous Region of Madeira, ANA, do their work and assume their responsibilities. That's what we expect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u180	Mrs. Members, let us move to the next point on our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Bill No. 1069 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the impact assessment of regulatory acts in the production, maintenance, worsening or reduction and eradication of poverty. To present the diploma, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Poverty is neither a chance nor a fate written in the stars. It is the product of our political choices, choices and political decisions about how we organize the economy or how we distribute wealth, how we organize access to health, education, how we design social protection mechanisms or how we plan cities, transport, housing. If it is true that the poverty rate has been reduced in recent years, with about 100 000 people leaving this situation, Portugal is still one of the countries of Europe with the highest rate of poverty and higher levels of inequality. There are 1 million and 700 thousand citizens, many of whom are children and young people, in situations of poverty in our country is a fact that it cannot fail to offend us and to motivate our action. There is a huge path to eradicating this phenomenon. The last action plan for inclusion was in 2010 and after that there were some measures, yes, but Portugal still does not have an integrated strategy, transversal to all policies to combat and eradicate poverty. In 2008 the Assembly of the Republic unanimously declared that poverty leads to the violation of human rights. The years that followed showed that this commitment was far from having any effect on political choices, particularly during the period of the troika and the previous government. In fact, the fight against poverty concerns all policies and cannot be done without attacking all their causes. Changes in labour law, wage policies, collective bargaining, contribute to aggravating or combating poverty. The same can be said of all social policies, the protection of unemployment or pensions, where poverty among the elderly, especially among women, is also a condemnation because of low pensions and degraded tax careers, or the question of caregivers and caregivers who are also frequently pushed to poverty because of the absence of social responses addressed to them. If we talk about educational policies, we are talking about an instrument to combat poverty and we know about the cross-sectionality between poverty and racism, as well as between poverty and all other forms of inequality and discrimination. Between poverty and health there is a strong and unequivocal relationship: the sicker, the poorer and the poorer, the sicker. We're talking about fighting poverty when we're dealing with housing, the greatest expense of so many families. Measures protecting people or promoting evictions, guaranteeing public housing or delivering them to the market have a direct impact on the worsening of poverty. Combating poverty therefore requires attention and awareness throughout the spectrum of political intervention. A few years ago, the European Anti-Poverty Network (REAPN) launched a challenge that is simple, but at the same time subversive: what if, before discussing any law, it assessed not only its impact on the Budget but also its impact on poverty? In other words, when discussing the increase in the number of students per class or the closure of the health centre, when discussing the value of the minimum wage or the rules of unemployment benefit, the law on incomes or transport passes, the value of pensions or family allowance, what is the foreseeable effect of this proposal on the production, maintenance or worsening of poverty and social exclusion? It was this idea that the Left Block turned into a bill, also providing for mechanisms to assess the participation of people in poverty situations, civil society organizations and institutions of research and knowledge production, providing for a successive impact assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u182	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u183	I conclude, Mr President, with this appeal, which is for everyone: that this bill is passed and that it is given the sign that this is not just a matter for solemn days but a concern that will go through all the debates of this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u184	Mr Rui Cruz of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After many policies to combat poverty, after many praises to government, after many oaths at the end of austerity—still here today! — after many great miracles and fantasies, poverty exists in Portugal with a dimension that must shame us, which must shame the government. in a European country, integrated in the European Union and receiving Community funds for more than 30 years, we find that poverty and the threshold of poverty are cut off on a colossal number of families, workers, unemployed people, women, children and immigrants living here. If we recognize positive developments in some indicators, how can we explain that there are still 2, 4 million people at risk of poverty in Portugal, that 600 000 live in family groups excluded from the labour market or that 24 % of women, children and workers are either poor or at risk of poverty? How can we explain that poverty and social exclusion reach more than 58% of the unemployed, that more than 44% of foreigners in Portugal are at risk of poverty or social exclusion or that almost 30,000 families need financial protection because they are insolvent, the number that has increased in recent years? While Centeno's numbers hide the failure of Costa, these numbers measure the government's enhanced success, testify to the weak yield of its policies. The time has come when it makes all the sense to monitor legislative production with mechanisms of prior impact assessment and subsequent monitoring of the effective and effective implementation of measures taken to combat poverty, and those which, not directly addressed to it, may have harmful effects on it. However, we have honest and well-founded reasons for doubting the effectiveness of this bill. We believe that the government, with social institutions, should create appropriate mechanisms to measure the impact of public policies on the eradication or spread of poverty. Of course, mechanisms are needed to measure the harmful impact of the aggressive captivitys of Centeno, of the audacious austerity of António Costa, of the charitable tax burden of this parliamentary majority. What was given to Portuguese by economic growth, employment and income recovery was taken from them with more taxes, rates, tariffs and prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u187	If the discharge paid taxes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u188	What was given to the most fragile and vulnerable was subtracted from them with indifference. They've been tricking poverty! You've been tricking the Portuguese! We need a government that can reduce the famous and even more colossal tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u189	It's a self-criticism exercise!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u190	We need a government to be able to induce robust and continuous economic growth. We need a new government, because it failed! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u191	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After all, PSD likes statistics! It does not refer only to the unfortunate period of the PSD Government / CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The parliamentary groups sometimes ask us how far we are willing to go or, showing a natural and legitimate attempt to mark biased terrain, they question — at the same time! — on which our sense of vote. This is what happened in the debate scheduled by the Socialist Party last week on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u193	It was a disgrace! A disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u194	For today, yes, it is the appropriate time for discussion of Bill No. 1069 / XIII, of the Left Block, which establishes the legal regime applicable to the impact assessment of normative acts in the production, maintenance, worsening or reduction and eradication of poverty. The Left Block has already explained in detail what it wants and, therefore, we will not go into unnecessary details. Paraphrasing the Minister of Labour, we will say that it is an "interesting" initiative and we welcome the Left Block for continuing the Socialist Party's debate on poverty today. But as a legislative initiative, it seems to us premature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u195	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u196	In fact, the Government intends to launch, very soon, a pilot project for a multidisciplinary assessment of the legislative impact that, in addition to legislative initiatives on its responsibility for gender impact and impact on people with disabilities, also focuses on other aspects, namely: in combating corruption, which follows a proposal from the Anti-Poverty Prevention Council, following its 2017 recommendation on the permeability of the law to risks of fraud, corruption and related offences, and in combating poverty, a measure that we stress, following exactly a suggestion from the European Anti-Poverty Network, where the Left Block was also to drink its inspiration. We defend, however, that legislative processes need not only their own maturation but also, as important as that, an assessment on the ground that guarantees their reliability. There are many areas in which the usefulness of the assessment of the legislative impact is essential. On the basis of this assumption, a single mechanism that ensures — in fact, in the image of what exists in other countries — a rigorous assessment in different areas seems to us to be much more effective than the proliferation of various evaluation mechanisms according to the sectoral areas it intends to cover.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u198	I'll finish. It is therefore reasonable, either in political terms or in terms of legislative production, which only took some time on the implementation of this pilot project—and this will allow us to evaluate the aspects that need to be improved, altered or even eliminated—that we are in a position to consider which parliamentary initiatives are most appropriate for an effective response. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u199	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We recognize in the Bill No. 1069 / XIII, of the authorship of the Left Block, a laudable concern and intention as regards what manifests of evaluation in terms of the impact of worsening, decrease or even eradication of poverty. What is certain is that it is not enough to have good intentions and the question to be asked is whether, indeed, this initiative, or such initiatives, will result in some gain. We have the greatest doubts about this, from the fact that we are bringing ourselves to the excessive bureaucracy legislative process, which is very typical of certain countries that like to report on all matters and to set up committees, which obscures a great inability to deal with the problems. The impact assessment is already provided for in the law, for example, on political measures for people with disabilities, for gender equality and now, with this proposal, for poverty. And we could consider adding, for example, concern about ecological sustainability, with the budgetary impact, with the impact on intergenerational solidarity, i.e. the importance of family and family project for intergenerational success. In fact, if the problems were solved with reports on the legislative impact, it would be easy to solve them. We agree on the final objective. In fact, I believe that all the benches clearly wish to end poverty, but the truth is that if every time we talk about poverty, especially the left benches, this would result in some gain for the poor, I am sure they would have solved all their problems. Unfortunately, practice tells us that it is precisely the opposite, that is, every time the left has governmental responsibilities and effectively conditions policies, this results in a great loss for the poor. I am going to give three examples of how we differ deeply from the left, and in fact the CDS has put forward very concrete proposals. One example concerns territorial symmetry and poverty linked to interiority. The CDS has submitted a number of proposals on this subject which have been piped to the left. Another example relates to population poverty and poverty associated with numerous families, which are those with a higher rate of poverty. Specific proposals have been put forward here in Parliament on this matter and the left has voted against them. Finally, as regards poverty due to inefficiencies, I would like to say that inefficiencies result in a worsening of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u201	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u202	For example, what is happening in health, in terms of the assessment of the contribution that private administrations can make to the National Health Service, we conclude that inefficiency leads to greater poverty, especially when we say that a poor person cannot go to a hospital like these, which is good and provides good service, only because there is an associated ideology. Mr President, in conclusion, a lot of talk, a lot of talk, a lot of talk about poverty will not bring any results to the poor. I therefore believe that it is an initiative that fills the agenda, but we doubt very much that it can bring some advantage. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u203	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Eradication of poverty must be an objective to be assumed and unfortunately it has not been fulfilled. Moreover, it is still curious that the PSD has assumed that nothing has been done in the fight against poverty. He is particularly alive in the memory and life of Portuguese people who persist in poverty, meaning the four years of the previous government. And it is particularly serious to remind them because we remember these four years when the European Anti-Poverty Network and other organizations working with affected populations have alerted to the impact of poverty on children and single-parent families. And they warned about this because our country has known a reality regarding the worsening of poverty that has not lived since fascism.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u206	Members of the PSD and CDS, when they talk about poverty, should never forget this. It was the political practice of the former Government, which aimed to impoverish the country—in fact, the former Prime Minister said that the country would only emerge from the impoverishing crisis—which placed the country's poverty at the levels that existed in fascism.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u207	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u208	Therefore, this meant that the former Government violated fundamental human rights, because poverty is the violation of fundamental human rights, to thousands and thousands of people in this country. That is why, from this perspective alone, we can understand that you do not understand the scope of what you said in relation to not having been taken, because the increase of €30 for lower pensions, the extension of the exemption from moderate rates, the replacement of wages and pensions that you have cut to workers and users, the decrease in the number of workers covered by the minimum wage and the increase in the minimum wage, although insufficiently, since the PSD has joined the PS and CDS, the replacement and extension of the values of family allowances, the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of inclusion and the end of the cut-off of the unemployment allowance by 10 % at the end of six months are several measures that contribute to combating poverty. We can conclude that these measures do not eradicate it, but they contribute to its fight. The CFP continues to put the eradication of poverty and precariousness as a civilizational objective. The fight against poverty and its eradication must be taken as a priority. Therefore, we have presented a bill aimed at implementing a national strategy to combat and eradicate poverty and social exclusion that advocates the development of integrated and redistributive income policies and the definition of methods, instruments, devices and specific actions directed towards the fight against poverty that we understand is essential. We accompany the bill here in discussion and we understand that, in the field of expertise, it must be improved, and we assume this commitment, but we will never forget that what the previous government did was to insist on a path of impoverishment and concentration of wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u209	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u210	I will finish, Mr. President. They told the Portuguese that what they wanted to offer to the country was to concentrate wealth and worsen poverty and that it does not serve any of the families who are faced with poverty or the country, because only with the rise in living conditions is that it is possible to meet the objective of economic and social development in the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u211	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015, the European Anti-Poverty Network presented to all parliamentary groups a commitment to a national poverty eradication strategy and there was no parliamentary group that said what was presented. In 2018, there was a session in this Parliament in which it was explicitly proposed that we approve a mechanism for prior assessment of the impact on poverty. in this debate, moreover, I made an intervention, because we had just passed legislation in this Parliament on the evaluation of the gender impact, and none of the arguments that were used here today on the usefulness of this mechanism, on its lack of contributions, or then on the fact that a mechanism for assessing legislative measures should not be imputed to Parliament but to civil society institutions, which was not even proposed by these institutions, was mentioned in this public session. It is therefore strange that at the public session we have expressed sympathy for the proposals of the European Anti-Poverty Network and that these same proposals are criticised here in Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u213	A mechanism of this kind has several advantages and one of them is to force the legislator or the legislator, each time they make a law, to think, think and evaluate the foreseeable impact that this law will have on poverty. In fact, this is a mechanism similar to what Parliament has approved on the impact of gender. Therefore, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, the arguments you have used are incomprehensible. The arguments he has now used, saying that it is premature or that the impact assessment of the legislation should be made through a government pilot project, could also have been used when the Socialist Party's proposal, which is already in force, of the gender impact assessment, was presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u214	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u215	So why does Parliament think it can make a law to assess gender impact but it can't do one on poverty because it's premature? Why does it have to be a government proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u216	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u217	If you agree, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, excellent. So, we will have conditions for the project to be approved and for, instead of considering premature, we can improve it in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u218	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u219	Finally, on the PSD argument, I realize that those who have so much aggravated poverty do not want such an assessment, but it is precisely for us to be accountable to all that such a mechanism is useful. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u220	We move on to the fifth point of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 1080 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of CTTs and 1096 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of CTTs and draft resolution No 1869 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Nationalisation of TTCs is taking place. To present the CFP initiative, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party has promoted the scheduling of this debate on TTCs and the recovery of public mail control, so the first word we want to address at this time is for the postal workers. The CTT workers — the men and women who are there in the company, in the workplace, with their class organisations — continue to be the first line of defense of the postal public service, not only in the fight for the rights and working conditions but, from the outset, for the defence of users and populations, for the defence of the public interest and for the defense of the CTT company itself, in the face of an unprecedented attack on its dismantling and decapitalisation that private management has been imposing. We therefore welcome the struggle of the workers of the CTTs from north to south of the country, who, once again, had a stage and a journey right here in front of the Assembly of the Republic, making hear the requirement that reality is evidenced every day, that of the return of the CTTs to the public sphere and the end of this truly criminal privatization, decreed by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]] The attack on postal public service did not start in 2013, nor was it triggered only by the previous government, is a process that has come by far, laboriously carried out by successive governments over dozens of years, with the prestigious help of the European Union and its impositions on trade and liberalization. It was to prepare the privatization of TTCs that, over the years, step by step, governments and administrations were making their way: approved and amended legislation; signed and amended concession contract; approved and withdrawn regulatory authority competences; closed mail stations; leased heritage; destroyed jobs; degraded services; populations, communities, businesses left out in successive public service assault vacancies. It is particularly significant that the year 2013 was marked by the closure of 125 mail stations, which were more than 1000 at the beginning of the 21st century and are now just over 500. With the year 2013, the year of the privatisation of CTTs, came this new reality, so modern for the PSD and CDS, which is the growing number of municipalities without any post station. It is already 33 municipalities without the presence of TTCs and, according to the company's own administration, it is expected that 48 municipalities will arrive in the short term without mail. In 2018 alone, more than 70 mail stations were closed. The PSD and the CDS, which celebrated the privatization of the CTTs and which, by the way, still continue to celebrate, demonstrate their absolute contempt for the populations and their protests. For them, everything is summed up in a concession contract that was duly undermined by subcontracting, alienation, termination of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u223	And if anyone comes to talk about what's going on, about the complaints that fire but that the administration says are less, about the misleading accounting that puts in the postal service the invoice of the postal bank, from the service to the public he hand over to bakeries, ourseries, drinking establishments, without any concern, then the PSD and the CDS try to stamp who so speaks as "CFP resonance box". No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the reason for the warnings and complaints from the CFP has been demonstrated. [[PCP applause.]] In the meantime, the PS, in the Government and in the Assembly of the Republic, continues to push for one of these days an increasingly serious problem and requires a concrete response that goes beyond the working, reflection and review groups that have been opposing our proposal to continue to reject the reversal of the privatization of TTCs. What people, workers, companies complain is that they do not continue in this attitude to let burn then, one day, discuss the ashes. Therefore, what is required is that we do not repeat, too in this matter, this regrettable convergence PS-PSD-CDS which has so far occurred. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the situation is very clear. The problem that has been created is not solved by timely measures, but by substantive policy options. The central problem is not the granting, nor the regulation, is privatization. When private management continues to dismantle the public service, what is needed is to defend the public service and the company itself, recovering it for public control.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u225	When the CTTs close the mail station and deliver the service to the bakery, the solution is not to certify the bakery and give training to the bakery, it is to reopen the station and bring back the mailman, the postal and management technician and all the workers of the CTTs who need it! [[PCP applause.]] The PCP bill does not propose closed solutions. Recovery of public control of TTCs is an objective that may involve different options and paths, including nationalisation. We do not lose sight of the essential and reaffirm: it is a national imperative of sovereignty, territorial cohesion and social justice to initiate the process of regaining control and management of TTCs, reverting to their privatization. That is the purpose of our initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u226	Mr Bruno Dias, you have a request for clarification by Mr André Pinotes Batista of the PS, to whom I give the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something that leaves no doubt and therefore I would like to clarify Mr Bruno Dias, who preceded me. There is no convergence between the PS and a PSD and a CDS that privatize a company that was profitable, a company that worked for people and that today is managed criminally, it is said, distributing dividends of profits that does not have, decapitalizing the company and endangering the public service. I would like to reassure the honourable Member that this convergence does not exist at all. Mr President, however, there are some doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u228	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u229	The solution that the CFP presented to us here is through the nationalization of the company. He said in his speech that there are different options, but he did not say which and we would like to know what the legal instrument and the financial instrument is.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u230	Political will! Political will!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u231	There is also another question: have you made the accounts? What impact could this have? Mr President, I tell you that we all have political will. Regarding the diagnosis that is made, we all understand the historical ashtray perpetrated by the right and we know — stop! — that not the United States of America, the country of neoliberalism and the invisible hand, were able to go as far as the disciples far beyond the troika. Mr President, I ask you the same question again. He spoke on several options and so I question him about these same options. I ask you what you suggest, because, in fact, there is a way to go and the Portuguese can count on the Socialist Party to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u232	Mr Bruno Dias, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Pinotes Batista, I thank you very much for your question. Essentially, he asked what are the instruments and options the PCP recommends, in its draft law, for this substantive solution that we propose and defend, i.e., the return of TTCs to the public sphere. I recommend to the honourable Member a very interesting but very short reading. This is a very brief document, which is worth reading to answer that question, which is the draft law of the CFP, in particular in its Articles 2. o, 3. the following, where exactly the answer to the question you have asked is defined. from a procedural point of view, we present the accountability of the executive power, which is, of course, who on behalf of the State should lead this process, because surely it should not be any parliamentary group or regulatory entity. In fact, it is the government that must have political courage — if it has it — to deal with the interests installed and the economic groups that are destroying the TTCs and postal service. So, just as we were in Lavradio — on that day, the honourable Member, who is a very busy man, was not there — side by side with the population, to complain against the closure of the post station and against the outcome of this policy of dismantling the postal service, so we sincerely bring to this debate the expectations of the populations. That, tomorrow, at the time of the vote of this bill, the PS does not once again hand over the PSD and the CDS, to lead the return of the CTTs to the public sphere! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u234	To intervene in the presentation of your initiative, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing one of the most ruinous decisions made by the PSD/CDS government, a real attack on the country, its history, its sovereignty, its territorial cohesion. Every time the PSD and CDS beat in their chest, saying that they are worried about the interior of the country, about the inequalities in the territory, about the populations that are left behind, we remember that they have their hands stained with a ruinous privatization to the country, the privatization of the TTCs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not forget who has always accompanied us against this ruinous decision: the workers and workers of the CTTs, who are also represented here today, who have gone out on the street to say that their job is important and that they must be brought forward with dignity, with working conditions, knowing that, on their shoulders, they have a strategic company for the country, which makes the difference to a large part of the population, particularly to the older. In their day-to-day lives, they build this territorial cohesion that we have discussed here so often. We know—and it has already been said—that this administration of the CTTs is making a ruinous management of the company, but I would like to stress the word that was still used by the PS when it spoke in the management of the company's 'criminal'. Now, if a company such as the CTT, strategic for the country, has a « criminal » management, what decision should the political decision maker make? from our point of view, there is only one possible consequence: the nationalisation of the company. If it was a company that didn't need it, we could say: « They are private, we don't need them, they come out». If it were a company that made no difference in people's lives, we could say: « Save jobs, lay off the management of the company, lay off this ruinous administration for the company ». But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, the statement of « criminal » management in a strategic company for the country can only result in the vote in favour of the bill of the Left Block for the nationalization of TTCs. Less than that is giving the hand to a criminal decision of the PSD and the CDS, which was the privatization of the company ; less than that is not taking themselves seriously in your own words ; less than that is not taking the country seriously, nor the workers and workers of the CTTs! We know the intention of the TTC administration: to decapitalize the company, to scrape everything there is to shave before the end of the concession, and at the end of this, to tell the State that there is no one who can do what they do, even if it is bad, that there is no one who can take what they are doing, even if that is not enough to defend the country. The PS Government, on this point, did not leave us alone because when Mrs Catarina Martins said there should be a strong response from the Government to a weak administration for the country's interest, the Prime Minister replied: "Well, the end of the concession is already at the end of next year and then you will soon see it." Now, this « soon you see» cannot be a little serious public management of a file as important as this; the « soon you see» is to leave for tomorrow what is hurting the lives of people and the country; the « soon you see» is to let the decisions of the privates and the right that has ruined the country against the people and against our population; the « soon you see» is to do nothing before a management that, despite « criminal», will continue ahead of the CTTs; the « soon you see» means that this « criminal’ management will be rewarded, because it will have a bank, a network of balconies of that bank built over the Post of Portugal,....
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u236	There you go! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u237	...and at the end, even at the end of all priorities, will have public service obligations which, too often, fail. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you taken from the news this week? Even yesterday, at the request of the Left Block, Parliament came to ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) to show what was visible but that the right still did not recognize. ANACOM has come to say that the administration of TTCs has little to do with the truth, that it does not say the actual numbers of the company and that in practice what it presents to the regulator is an outrage. He says he has numbers of complaints below the forecast, when what we realize is that the numbers of business applications, as far as postal service is concerned, are below the forecast, but the claims have already blown up any historical record.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u238	It's so good to have a friend in the regulator! You're so holy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u239	So, what do we get out of this? Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, there is no doubt. To protect the country, to protect our populations, to protect the interior of the country, to protect what is strategic, we want the nationalization of TTCs and that is what we will take to vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u240	Sir, you have a request for clarification. To that end, I give the floor to Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already realize that on the left, we agree essentially, but there is a question between proclamation and action. We have heard here a proclamation with which we agree, but now we want to say the following: on the side of the Socialist Party, we will be here to give our hands to the workers and users of this service. We will do it with thought, through the analysis of the concession that exists, and I believe that, with rigour and weighting, we will be able to make this path and return to Portuguese and Portuguese a quality service. No, our way is not that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u242	Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u243	Mr President, I would like to ask you the same question again: what is the instrument? What is the consequence? How much does it cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u244	Are you going to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u245	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the basic question is whether the PS wants to stop falsifying and actually want to move on to action. That is the basic question. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is that, as far as determining choice is concerned, on the basis of how much it costs the country, it could answer directly, saying how much it costs this attack that the administration of the TTCs is doing to the populations, how much it costs we do not have a postal service to meet, even, what is contracted in the concession, how much it costs us to destroy a historical company, with centuries of history! How much does it cost? But in this regard, we see that the PS does not know how to make accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u247	You know, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u248	...he doesn't want to be an accountant, and not for anything but ideology. There is, in fact, no discussion on this subject, but the bill is coming out very close to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u249	To present your initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What would lead the PSD and CDS to privatize a company that annually contributed millions of euros to state revenue? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u251	Patriotism, of course! Open... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u252	What reasons would the PSD and CDS have for deciding to hand over to the private a company that provided a postal service with an absolutely exemplary quality and that it was indeed a reference at the international level? Oh, my God! We don't know! And we don't know, because the authors of this business haven't yet been able or didn't want to explain the real reasons for such a disastrous decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u253	It was the Memory of the Troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u254	As has been the previous government's decision to hand over TTCs to the private — which, it is recalled, have been sold in the stock market at a price far below the market — is having very negative consequences for both the state and the population, and also for the workers of the TTCs, which I welcome on behalf of the Greens. But, after all, what consequences do we talk about? in a sentence: private management is destroying 500 years of mail in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u255	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u256	The state has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in dividends and the country no longer has a public, reliable and secure mail service. The service is increasingly degraded and less universal, more expensive and more distant. During the year 2018, 33 municipalities in our country were left out of mail stations and, as if not enough, the CTT company announced the intention to close 15 more stations, which means that half a hundred municipalities could be left without post stations. In other words, more than 15 % of the total number of municipalities are deprived of any post station, mainly penalising the populations of the interior. On the other hand, the privatization of TTCs also brought systematic recourse to temporary work enterprises and service providers, among many other examples that could be mentioned here and which are penalizing the workers of this company. Meanwhile, shareholders continue to acquire, in the form of dividends, all profits generated by the company and even to distribute dividends above profits, completely decapitalizing TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u258	Only between 2013 and 2016 more than 270 million euros were distributed into dividends, i.e. about a third of the total privatisation revenue. Now, five years after privatization, and in the face of the constant degradation of the service provided to the citizens, it is time to rethink not the concession contract—in fact, it is unheard of—not the value of the fines, because neither one thing nor the other will solve whatever is and much less the essential, but the property of the TTCs, which is what is really in question. It is true that, five years after the privatisation of TTCs, the Portuguese continue to wait for an explanation, from the PSD and the CDS, about the decision to privatize this large and important company for the State, it is also true that the Portuguese will not understand why, today, this House does not take a step towards moving forward with the process of revising the privatisation of TTCs...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u259	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u260	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the Portuguese will not understand why today this House does not take a step towards moving forward with the process of reversing the privatization of TTCs, so that its ownership and management return to the sphere of state, as the Greens propose in particular. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u261	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TTCs were a profitable company, providing good service to citizens and businesses and paying dividends to the State. They have been fully privatized, and there are only three more European countries in which this happens. Why? Why was it necessary to reach the EUR 5,5 billion provided for in the 2011 troika adjustment programme? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u263	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u264	The financial connection with the privatisations provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding had already been exceeded and not justified. Were the TTC privatised because the revenues of privatization made it possible to significantly reduce public debt? Not either! The privatisation revenues represented only 0, 42 % of our public debt that year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u265	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u266	The TTCs were fully privatized by an ideological option of the PSD Government / CDS. The total privatisation decision was thus a mistake. Its implementation was even worse. The indicators of deterioration of the quality of the service, which have increased in recent years, show that the concession contract was very badly designed and did not safeguard the public interest in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u267	It was a designer problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u268	Within the limit, TTCs may subdivide to third parties the whole postal service. In 1834 post posts, more than half are sub-concessions to public entities, in particular to parish boards, the quality of the service is not compared to that of post stations. There seems to be no doubt about the need to reverse this process. The question is when and how.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u269	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u270	Although it has been worse than the concession contracts made by the State — and this is a case — it is generally undesirable to have unilateral measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u271	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u272	The concession contract ends in 2020 and the reputation of a democratic rule of law suggests that it should not end abruptly. Effectiveing would only lead to litigation, compensation by the State, and lack of contractual credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u273	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u274	The aim to be achieved is that of the State to reopen the public control of the CTTs and start the process of reversal of privatization, which only the project presented by the Green Party guarantees. There are several institutional ways that this control could take place in 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u275	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u276	I conclude, Mr. President. Until then, the regulator should ensure the quality of the service provided, the Government should prepare for its re-entry into public management of the TTCs and the Court of Auditors should make a final audit of the implementation of this concession contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u277	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will not discuss again, since it seems that it is factual and easily affordable in documentation, who has entered the privatization of TTCs in the memorandum of troika,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u279	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u280	...who enrolled in the Government's program the privatization of TTCs, which we can then discuss and evaluate, and what kind of assessments have been made...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u281	You can add the PEC 4 ( Stability and Growth Programme 4 )!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u282	... about this same privatization, which was evaluated and was considered correct. But there's something that can't happen. I even accept that the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party do not like private people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u283	They don't like your argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u284	But it is not just these, they do not like any private person and are consistent in this matter. What I cannot accept, and cannot pass from today, is that the Socialist Party, which has entered this into the Memorandum, says that there is a criminal management and does not derive consequences from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u285	Don't! That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u286	You had to rescue immediately the granting, under the penalty of the Socialist Party, to be an irresponsible party, not serious in political activity and unacceptable demagogy. It is not possible to think differently! Otherwise, you have to answer the other question. The regulator was here yesterday. Mr André Pinotes is able to tell me what are the quality criteria that are in the concession contract and that the company does not meet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u287	Sir, don't disturb what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u288	Tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u289	You think it's good to distribute dividends when there's no profit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u290	Tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u291	If you ask me, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u292	There were two cases in 2007, and the necessary penalty was imposed. Yesterday, I asked the regulator if in 2018 the same lacks of compliance with the quality criteria are confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u293	Oh, so there's a flaw? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u294	I asked! What did the regulator say? 'We are collecting the data and sending them to Parliament.' Let us wait for the data to see whether or not the quality of the service has improved and after that we will draw conclusions. I would also like to ask the following: of the closures or conversions of stations to posts, is there any one to be made against the law or the concession contract? Do you know any of that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u295	No, the concession contract is that it's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u296	Do you know any of that? Oh, my God! If you do not know, you cannot enter the cheap demagogy of who is against the private initiative, provided that it is not real estate speculation, because when it is real estate speculation, with Robles effect, the Left Block already agrees!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u297	Ah! At BES that was a crime and now it's not? Oh, my God! Say well of your criteria! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u298	Let me tell you, Mr President, that for the CDS, what is at stake is the quality of the service. For the CDS, it is the quality of the service that matters, whether public company or private company, is the service provided that is concerned. [[PS and PCP protests.]] And I say more: the best way to protect the interests of workers is to have a financially sound company, whether public or private. Mr President, I have to ask you: do you know how many stations have closed when the company was public?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u299	Now, there's no service!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u300	They've closed more stations than since the company's private.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u301	When they sold you weren't worried and now you're? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u302	Look, here I have a newspaper news from 2007 when the company was public, with the following title: After mail leave father and son without social security pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u303	Is that an act of contrition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u304	In 2009, while CTT was still a public company, another news: I didn't receive a letter and I didn't have a job.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u305	Ah! Now the quality of service is good? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u306	Public enterprise, 2007 « CTT closed thousands of stations ». You know what this means?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u307	Now are you worried? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u308	This means that, whether public or private, the company adapts to the circumstances of supply and demand. When it was public and now, being private, the company adapts to supply and demand.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u309	It's good now, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u310	That's why the Socialist Party made the concession contract, so that's why we're revising the concession contract... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ...and that's why it's essential to review the concession contract again, to the future reality. And we can even learn from the mistakes made in previous contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u311	That's where I already have doubts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u312	In other words, it is necessary to guarantee greater capillary, better quality, better service and perhaps to have—I will go further—a requirement with the TTCs that we do not have with other State services. What happens is that we have 58 municipalities with fewer than 5000 voters and that's exactly where they close the General Deposit Box counters — and the Left Block and the PCP, on this matter, they say little —,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... that close schools and where public transport services are lacking, but on that, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, says nothing anymore. So let's be consistent,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...because what needs to be guaranteed, I repeat, is the quality of the service and a regulator with the ability to act. So, I hope, quietly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u313	Wait a minute, because you don't have to get the pension up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u314	... that the regulator will say what are the consequences of the evaluation of the quality of the service, with the same assumptions as it has been made in the last 20 years. And the truth is that in the last 20 years there have been times when the company, being public, has reached unacceptable levels of quality of the service, and Mr Bruno Dias will know this very well between 2003 and 2006.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u315	Nothing that compares to today's quality!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u316	The CDS warned about this, even calling the regulator to committee, when levels were close to zero, and said: « Attention that these quality levels are unacceptable ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u317	And the lesson they learned was to privatize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u318	No, no, that's not what we learned!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u319	What happened? The regulator obliged the auditing company and the service quality concerns to be an external undertaking. It's an external company today. We are therefore available for the whole debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u320	They're available for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u321	We are available to require from the company all the conditions to exercise good service and quality service, which is preferably close. If this proximity is made through the authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u322	Or the bakeries!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u323	...with the chambers or others, we respect the autonomy of the local authority in making that decision. What we say is that these posts, or these agencies, must be certified and must ensure what is in the concession contract. End point paragraph! we are intransigent, but they won't hear us say bad to the company for being public or for being private. That is indifferent to us! We have done a privatization, we have fulfilled what was in the Memorandum of Understanding, we have adopted strict criteria of measurement, we have even created a new regulatory framework law, giving regulators more powers, more capacities to ensure the execution of that same contract and therefore...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u324	Yesterday, in the commission, they called everything to the regulator!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u325	... we are just and only waiting for the regulator to tell us where it failed, what the consequences are and what the mechanisms and conditions it needs to act more, better and harder. What I didn't expect was that the Socialist Party didn't have the courage to assume its own responsibility, what it does as a government, but, being a ruler, it has all the conditions to make demands both to the regulator, or to the company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u326	Nationalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u327	... once you have the ability to redeem the concession contract. I hope you tell who's coming! [[PS protests.]] About the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u328	Let's demand the regulator! He's a hostage to the regulator!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u329	Since we cannot demand the Minister of Economy of the time, who was Dr. Vieira da Silva! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u330	On the PCP and on the Block I will say nothing, because they hate the private initiative, as long as it's not from Mr Robles, because, in that case, it's all right. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u331	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira. [[Continued PS protests.]] CDS-PP contraprotests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills currently under discussion are important and the PSD welcomes... [[Continued PS protests.]] CDS-PP contraprotests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u333	Excuse me, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, just wait a minute. Mrs. Members, I did not give the floor to all, to speak at the same time, was only to Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira. [[Laughing.]] Please continue, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills currently under discussion are important and the PSD welcomes the initiatives of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens for taking on these legislative intentions. The debate on public services or public interest is, first of all, an ideological debate and, in such a dynamic and instantaneous world, where the economic discourse crushes the social imperative and the political, in which the 'emergency' goes ahead of the 'important' it is good to resume the debate and, let us be clear, between left and right, between communists, between social democrats and liberals. Let us then take advantage of our healthy differences, allowing those who hear us to confront opinions and take preferences, because that is how democracy is built. Our radical left, which permeates growing PS populism, understands that the public service has to be provided by public entities or, better yet, there is only good public service provided by public entities. End point! [[Protests by BE Mariana Mortágua and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The PSD, a democratic social party, does not diabolize, rather values the private initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u335	He's in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u336	... the criterion of merit, the reward of risk and competition as constant improvement factors of the service provided. But we are not naive or liberal. We believe in regulatory bodies, strong and independent, which guarantee competition and respect for rules, but combined with other values such as the protection of citizens' rights and interests. It is in this context that our debate is inserted and I would like to raise one question: the universal postal service, historically provided by CTT — public until 2013 and now private — must be provided by the State or may be provided by the private group CTT? But, then, if this really is the issue, the foundations and arguments of the legislative proposals under discussion today are hypocritical and liars. For the radical left, the degradation of the service is not at issue, it is not at stake the lack of compliance with the concession contract, which they invoke as a facade. Liar! Not that we lived in the best of the worlds, for the proponents it was all wrong. Why? Because private people cannot provide public services! The question is conceptual, it is ideological, it is not factual and much less merit! Therefore, the foundations and assumptions of this debate and this fight are an ambush, an ambush in which many embark, of good faith, and others, and not for that reason, thinking that they are fighting for a just cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u337	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u338	Let us be clear: the PSD understands and believes that public services, with the exception of strict subjects of sovereignty, can or should be provided by whom best demonstrate ability and efficiency to deliver them. Having said that, the ideological fracture that separates us from the fundamental issue is being made and, consistently, we are going to vote against the proposals. But we are not going to run away from the CTT in particular. The TTCs have been holders of a postal public service contract since 2000, which was originally granted by a socialist government for a period of 30 years. In 2013, when the basis for the postal public service were changed, the PSD-led government anticipated this date by 2020, i.e. by the end of next year. The postal service contract is in force and the PSD requires it to be fulfilled. More than the PCP or the Left Block, the PSD expects the regulator ANACOM rigor and good sense and, above all, does not serve as a transmission belt of the ideological agenda of radical political parties or well of vanity. Unmovable is not synonymous with irresponsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u339	That's respect for the regulator!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u340	It is a fact that the new times of globalisation, e-commerce, digitisation and online literacy bring new challenges to postal service. Over the last 20 years, the mail has lost 50 % of its volume and forced the CTTs, as a public company and then as a private company, to optimize costs, internalize activities and guarantee jobs. We saw the shift from post stations to post posts, the increase in fleets and the increase in consumer access points to postal services. But let us be honest: the CTTs have been doing this for several years, even before privatisation! The public CTTs have not gone far from what the private CTTs are doing! The numbers don't lie! We register the ongoing operational transformation plan and record the effort of proximity to autarchs and populations in search of the best solutions for the universal postal service. But clearly, the PSD wants guarantees, the CTT and the regulator, that the contract, even with these changes in business and demographic changes, is being fulfilled. In hearing in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, the regulator confessed that it passed the service quality indicators from 11 to 24, as the overall service quality indicator was close to the minimum values contracted. And I hope there is a good sense to combine the demands of the public service with the necessary contractual balance that the regulator has to guarantee. But what Portugal has today is a company obliged to fulfil a contract, with an attentive and active regulator, which ensures that we will have until the last day of the granting of postal service in all the municipalities, in thousands of parishes, and with standards of increased demand. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the supreme irony: what may be saving universal postal service is the fact that it is provided by private people, who are bound by a public service contract and who will have to comply. Does anyone, in this Chamber or out there, ignore all public services that have closed with this government? Oh, my God! Since when has the fact that the public service been provided by the State ensured its effective performance? Oh, my God! In the time of the troika we were forced to close, but now, now that "we shall come to the page"? Oh, my God! in these three years of PS government, colonized by the agenda of the PCP and the Left Block, have not closed public services? Oh, my God! What would the state CTTs be? Didn't they lock up police stations? Oh, my God! Didn't they lock up health centers? Oh, my God! Ansião, Vila Nova de Gaia, Vila Franca de Xira, Ovar? Oh, my God! And the General Deposit Box, 100 % public, to whom are management and rationalization measures allowed that lead to the closure of 200 counters by 2020? Oh, my God! And can it? Yes! Why is that possible? Because the Box is public and for the Box there is no concession contract nor ANACOM, but, in this case, the left whistles to the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u341	Because the government has given you your hand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u342	After all, in these cases, guilt dies single,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u343	Nothing dies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u344	... with the responsibilities of this headless monster that is the state, where no one ever knew anything, no one saw anything and no one took anything. The public services provided by the State may fail, delay and even disappear, but, even in the known constraints, one thing the autarchs and the citizens are certain: private TTCs are linked to the public service they have contracted and, in the passing times, and the current times are the times of that left, it is better to have public services provided by private contractors, present and taxed, than absent or dismantled public services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u345	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this speech by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to speak of a sin, a surprise, a scandal and a position. Let's start with sin. This matter related to the controversy of TTCs has an original sin. It's not worth hiding, Mr. Hélder Amaral! There is an original sin, which is a kind of elephant inside a glass room. This original sin is the basis of the granting of public postal service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u347	It's just change!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u348	... committed by PSD and CDS, and the privatization of TTCs. And, Mr Hélder Amaral, you know as well as I and all the Members in this Chamber that the Memorandum of Understanding had a goal, which was EUR 5,5 million in revenue, and that when you decided to privatize the TTCs, that amount was absolutely safeguarded. You did it because you wanted it, because you had an ideological agenda for the TTCs as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members committed this original sin and committed it - in contrast, including in relation to what is happening throughout Europe. As you know, you heard yesterday in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, 86% of European countries have public participation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u349	But is it in favour or against the PCP and BE bills? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u350	...but you didn't even think about why it was like that. Let's go to surprise, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, she is absolutely admirable. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS came to a debate, as they did in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in almost face of the regulator. In fact, Mr Hélder Amaral even if the PS can demand anything from the regulator, in absolute contrast, I think, with that which is obviously the thinking of the CDS, and which has been propagated over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u351	I asked him yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u352	Mr PSD, on the other hand, is systematically criticizing the regulator, which must guard the public interest. But, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, tell this House, tell Mrs. Members who do not agree with the regulator's intervention. Do you not agree with the intervention of the alert for cross-subsidisation, between banking and postal business, affecting bank business costs in postal business and reducing the profit of postal business? Oh, my God! Is that what you don't like? Or do you not like, as ANACOM did, to warn about data manipulation regarding the quality of TTCs? Oh, my God! Is that what you don't like? Is that why you want us to intervene and end the work of the regulator? Oh, my God! Or did you not like the regulator to strengthen the quality criteria because, in fact, there were many things going wrong? Oh, my God! And we're not the ones who say it, it's the whole country that says it! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a scandal, a scandal we have to mention! We must say that the facts that have come to the public, particularly these most recent facts, should effectively allow all Members and political parties of this House to reflect, because it is not acceptable for a company that has such a contract and that has to serve populations to handle quality information. It is not acceptable for a company of this nature to affect bank business costs in postal business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u353	I don't think so, either, but I don't know if it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u354	So this is a scandal and we are, of course, scandalized! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, let us talk about the position, which is that of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, so that there is no doubt. We have insisted on what is absolutely essential, which is to safeguard the proper fulfilment of the concession contract. But we also realize that this concession contract does not meet what is absolutely essential for the people. We know that, for example, with regard to the closure of mail stations, it follows an amendment to the concession contract, as Mr ANACOM said. Therefore, we are concerned, especially with three things, the first of which is the quality of the services provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u355	We agree! Check!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u356	We are very concerned and the data are in sight of everyone. ANACOM has been publishing these indications and the indicators are absolutely irrefutable. We are also concerned about the coverage and density of the network, which is an essential aspect. They closed 33 post stations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u357	More, more! It was more than 70 just last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u358	... which have been replaced by post offices, and we all know that this substitution is not acceptable—this was also said in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works—because it does not meet minimum requirements. We are concerned about this, just as we are concerned about the issue of the division between banking and postal business, especially the diversion of means to banking business, the diversion of attention to banking business, so we need to make sure that this does not happen. We have nothing against the banking business, but there can be no such thing as this. Finally, Mrs. Members, it is for all this that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has asked the General Inspection of Finance ( IGF ) for an audit within the framework of COFMA. We ask for it, because we want to know why this happened this way, why the PSD and the CDS decided to privatize, why the PSD and the CDS decided to grant a concession contract in such a way that does not protect the citizens, who does not protect the territorial cohesion of the country. We need to know that, and when we know it, we'll act! The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not put its head in the sand! You can be sure of that! We will always protect the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u359	Mr Carlos Pereira, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block for a request for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u360	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I am going to address the PS Parliamentary Group, because nothing can be expected from the right-wing seats on this matter. They echo voices within the Socialist Party that claim the same intention of the proposal as the Left Block here defended. I remember the federations of the PS of Porto, the Algarve, of people of the PS of the electoral circle by which Mr. Carlos Pereira was elected, who have the same claim. Question: What does the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group mean? Will this discontent echo against the general delapidation and improper appropriation of the services of the CTTs, which deteriorate every day? Oh, my God! Is the PS available, or is it not, so that the concession is not renewed and CTTs are restored in the public sphere, from which they should never have left? Oh, my God! Does the PS not consider that this is the time to reverse this sovereignty of private interests on the basic and essential interests of populations in a secular service, proximity, essential from north to south of the country and autonomous regions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u361	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u362	I conclude, Mr. President. Does the PS consider it essential to create essential services to correct asymmetries instead of allowing them to increase the volume? Oh, my God! Mr André Pinotes asked how it was done. Ask your government and guardianship! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u363	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u364	Mr President, thank you very much for your question. I would like to stress what I said in my speech, because I think it was quite clear that the concern of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is great. We observe what is happening in the country, we observe what the regulator says, we analyze what the regulator has done and, of course, we are concerned, in fact, we can even say that we are very concerned. But, Mr President, let me tell you clearly the following: the Socialist Party does not make proclamations! The Socialist Party analyses the situation, collects information and acts according to this analysis and collects information. He said, and I repeat, that the Socialist Party has asked the IGF for an audit. We're not going to run into political action. We need to know the results of the audit. It is absolutely essential to understand what happened and what consequences these decisions had been made by the PSD and the CDS. Based on that, as I said, we will act accordingly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u365	You have the floor for a second speech, Mr Paulo Rios, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u366	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Responding a bit to Mr Carlos Pereira's challenge, I would like to say the following: at the beginning of my speech I welcomed the proposals of the parties who presented the projects, because they are clear, they are assumed, it is an ideological matter, and that is how we understand it. I said, in the gallery, what the PSD thought of all this. What is regrettable is that the Socialist Party's position is a huge political cowardice. Neither is water, nor wine; neither is flesh, nor fish; neither is it in favour, nor is it against; he is worried, but, more or less, he will investigate. They assume definitely: either they are with the radical left or they are not with the radical left! They assume your past, they assume what they have done, they assume the concession contract, they assume that this theme is placed in the Memorandum of Troika, they assume that this was also in your Government Programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u367	You didn't hear the previous intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u368	Let's be a government party! Be a responsible party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u369	This intervention is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u370	It's regrettable! Whoever is listening to us understands what you want, understands what we want and, once again, the PS is the exchange-intent party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u371	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, assuming that those who still have time available will not use it - we give it up for purchase - you have the floor, for one last intervention, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u372	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not expect the PSD and CDS to be part of the solution on this issue. Almost nothing surprises us, almost nothing is new. And I stress here the « almost», because we do not know or want to know whether BlackRock or the Champalimaud family have sent the sermon to the PSD and CDS, with this declaration of love for private management of the CTTs and what is decided there, or with that absolute contempt that once again manifested by the concrete situation that people face, or even with that truly unheard earst, to which we watch, on the part of the PSD and the CDS, the regulator, after so many years and so many loas who have worked in regulation. The problem here is a fundamental problem, it's a problem of options: the PS says it doesn't make proclamations. But you don't even have to! What is needed, in fact, is not proclamations, they are basic political options. And again, we say here that the worst thing you can do at this point is let it burn and then analyze the ashes. We do not need to analyze, weigh and reflect, after all what is already in sight of what the country needs today, we need action, political options, decisions and, above all, that, tomorrow at the end of the plenary, the PS assumes the political option not to stand by the PSD and the CDS again in this vote. It's just the ladies. Members spoke recently about the concession contract, but we said again that the problem is not the concession, it is privatisation. We want even to make it clear that the CFP does not agree or accept that it will be presented or claimed, as the Left Block did recently, that it does not renew the granting of universal service to TTCs. The universal service shall continue to be of this operator, which shall be a national and public undertaking. That's where the question is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u373	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u374	But it is also true that, when talking about the concession contract and the amendments that have been made, I cannot fail to remember Decree-Law No 112/2006 of the PS Government / Socrates, which has changed the concession contract, allowing the CTT company, which later came to be privatized, to close mail stations without giving the ANACOM cavacus and, in fact, allowing to insert the figures of the tacit deferral and the subcontracting of the postal service. This was approved by decree-law in 2006 in the governance PS / Socrates! That is why we say that over the years there has been a long and laborious way of preparing for privatization, that we have always denounced, but once again, at that time, you said that you knew what they were doing: « we know what we are doing with the PEC 4, we know what we are doing with the Memorandum of Troika, we know what we are doing in proposing privatization ». Now, we know what we're doing by delaying the solution. It can't be, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an urgent, unacceptable political option that the country claims and the CFP proposes. Who votes in favour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u375	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today, but the work is not yet completed, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to make several announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 1129 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Authorizes the Military Laboratory to produce missing medicines in pharmacies for reasons imputable to industry ( tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 176 / 2006 of 30 August ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Parliamentary opinions Nos 120 / XIII / 4 were also admitted. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the scheme of investment companies and real estate management, and 121 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2019 of 21 January establishing the procedure for the identification and recognition of the situation as a rustic or mixed building without known owner and its registration. Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects 1998 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase measures to improve the capacity to respond to situations of domestic violence, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1999 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the date of 26 November as the National Anemia Day and recommends that the Government approve a National Strategy for the Prevention and Treatment of Anemia, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 2000 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation works of the High School Dr. João Carlos Celestino Gomes, in Ílhavo, 2001 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on working conditions in contact centres ( callcenters ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 2002 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Decides to cancel the construction of the Fridão dam, inserted in the National Program for Potential Hidroelectric Dams, which drops to 6. the Commission, 2003 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Clarification of the remuneration progression criteria of public higher education teachers, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2004 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the Teatro Portalegrense as a property of public interest, which falls to 12. the Commission, and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy within the European Union's construction process, which falls to 4. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-21.u377	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's work. I should like to announce the agenda for the plenary meeting tomorrow, Friday, 22 February, drawing particular attention to the fact that the session will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. The first item on the agenda will be an urgent debate required by the PSD on the theme « Investment in Education ». A thematic debate will be followed, requested by the Chairman of the Possible Monitoring Committee for the Definition Process of the Portugal 2030 Strategy, in accordance with Article 73 ( 1 ). the Rules of Procedure. Thirdly, we will proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the Drafts of Law Nos 995 / XIII / 4. a ( Citizens) — Maintenance and opening of pharmacy at the facilities of the hospitals of the National Health Service, 1099 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Restores the regime concerning the maintenance and opening of pharmacy at the facilities of hospitals of the National Health Service, and 1103 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — No medicines available to the public by the hospital pharmacies of the National Health Service. In the end, there will still be a regiment vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing else to deal with, with very good evening votes, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 49 minutes.]]
