ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Our agenda today is very extensive. The first point is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1522 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of the Secondary School of Barcelinhos and 1534 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelos High School — Barcelos. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Joel Sá, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party today brings the debate a draft resolution on the requalification of the Barcelinhos Secondary School, a school that has served the community for more than three decades, in which I have had the opportunity and privilege to have been a student, associative leader and teacher, and that since its foundation has not had any intervention until today. It is one of the few in the country or even of the municipality of Barcelos that had never had any intervention and that still had gateways and fibrosis coverage, in an area of more than 1250 m2. The school has more than 600 students, having had an increase compared to the previous year. Despite the very degraded facilities, it remains very attractive for students of the Barcelos Town Hall for its environment and its welcoming structure and close to the students. It is located on the south bank of the river Cávado, a school that continues to captivate students. Having in the same parish a school that has completed an association contract relatively recently, it is urgent that this school have a requalification. It is a construction with the typology of the 1980s and it has several problems in its infrastructures, from the infiltration of rainwaters, to the cold that makes it feel in the classrooms, making them unbearable in winter time. It is therefore in a rather degraded state, questioning the safety of its users, including students, teachers and teachers. The school also has pre-fabricated pavilions, which from a provisional solution have become a definitive solution, and which students often use. Every year, it is obliged to ask for budgetary reinforcements to perform small works as it does not have the capacity to do basic works. Having been around 33 years old, at the level of electrical installation is extremely old, with successive failures, with lack of electrical power and whose connections, as technicians continue to draw attention every day, are at imminent risk. at the water network level, the pipes are rusty, there are permanent water leaks, which sometimes produce excess water bills, which the school has to bear. at the level of the sewer system, the plugs are constant, the odors are uncomfortable inside the school building—think a classroom where people have to endure these smells! — the health facilities are exactly the same as the time I was a student or a teacher, so they are extremely old-fashioned. Your furniture is extremely degraded and old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u3	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u4	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. What is intended is for a retraining of the school and the government to be sensitive to this issue. The educational community of the Barcelinhos High School deserves decent, current and equal facilities with neighbouring schools. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u5	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The characterization of the situation of the Barcelinhos High School has already been made, but I would like to reinforce an idea that we are very concerned about this. It is that, like other schools considered peripheral in relation to central urban areas, this one, which is located on the left bank of the river Cávado, has been pre-established in relation to measures absolutely necessary for a school infrastructure already over 30 years old and that necessarily deserves retraining works. Both the Frei Caetano Brandão School in Braga and this Barcelinhos school are considered peripheral schools — schools that sometimes receive ethnic minorities — and are preserved in relation to requalification works, which seems to us unfair and incomprehensible, since the movement should be precisely the opposite. The most peripheral schools, which need works and in some way that lack of works can be considered discriminatory, should be priority in terms of the State's investment in its requalification. The Barcelinhos High School is located in this case. I would like to raise here another issue, which relates to the reprogramming of the Community funds of Portugal 2020. One of the measures most claimed by the National Association of Municipalities is the strengthening of local investment, particularly in the area of school infrastructure. There are serious situations, such as this one that happens with the Barcelinhos Secondary School, in which there are still fibrosis coverages, with all the implications that we know this has at the level of the quality of life and the health of the users and the school community. Therefore, there should be a government concern about strengthening investment in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, giving priority precisely to these situations, including the Barcelinhos Secondary School. I am also referring to the fact that it was a matter that had been dealt with recently here in the Plenary, the School of Frei Caetano Brandão, also considered as a peripheral school, which receives ethnic minorities, but which has a very important job at this level. Portugal 2020 programming should therefore be reconsidered so as to include both schools and schools. But, in the specific case, we are dealing with the Barcelinhos High School. It was essential that this school community—which deserves, because it has worked hard, has its own programs for the development of its school, its school work—if it felt good, if it felt protected and not discriminated against, which is what it feels right now. We therefore call for urgent measures to re-qualify the Barcelinhos Secondary School. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u7	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo spoke for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 9 July last year, with the PS's abstention, a draft resolution of the CDS-PP was adopted recommending that the Government should draw up an intervention plan with a view to the urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the facilities of the Barcelos High School. Special emphasis was placed on the need for rapid removal of existing fibrosis plates in school, so as to safeguard the health of students, teachers and employees. Our initiative resulted from the analysis and recognition of the very degraded state of those school facilities. in fact, and despite the effort of school management over time, the available budget park did not allow the realization of little more than elementary maintenance works. The school has never been intervention in order to overcome structural deficiencies due to the longevity of the building, which presents infiltrations, recurrent failures in the old electrical installation, continuous gas leaks in the old pipeline, which adds the existence of the said fibrosis coverage plates that urgently replace. When we present and discuss our draft resolution on this school, which essentially serves the population of the left bank of the river Cávado, we stress that there are still no access to students with reduced mobility and also that the three pre-fabricated pavilions placed in the meantime— provisionally, but that they seem to have assumed definitive status—lead to a discomfort aggravated by the lack of isolation that at least allow their users to withstand the variation of temperatures occurring in the area. The draft resolutions that the Left Block and PSD present today come on the screen of the one that the CDS has already approved there is nine months. Fearing, though, that the Government will remain consistent with its practices and give these projects the same zero attention that it has devoted to the previous one, the CDS Parliamentary Group reiterates that it is the most fundamental justice that urgent intervention takes place at the Barcelos High School. The conditions offered by this school are absolutely unacceptable, whether to children who are forced to attend it, whether to the teaching, administrative or auxiliary bodies. The safety and health of the entire school community are undeniably at stake. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u9	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the Barcelinhos High School it is important here to remember that a draft resolution was approved last year on the proposal of the PCP, which recommended that the government urgently initiate the re-qualification works of this school. It should also be recalled that this resolution was published in August 2018 and that therefore the Government had all the necessary instruments, if that was truly its intention, to carry out the retraining of the Barcelinhos Secondary School. But indeed, it does not appear that it is the government's will to intervene to remove the problems faced by the school. And there are several, as already mentioned here: laboratories in the areas of science, chemistry and physics, which are not properly equipped; they are the rooms that do not have the proper isolation, because the drawers are already much exceeded; they are the channels that are obsolete and exhale odors and that cause significant losses of water, which greatly increase the expenses of the school itself; they are the asbestos coverings that persist, not only in the corridors, but also in the pre-fabricated pavilion and in the canteen; they are the difficulties of displacement in the school that have students and the teaching and non-teaching staff with reduced mobility. It is true that the school has been working for more than 30 years, but these problems have not been solved and, indeed, it does not appear to be political will to do so. We therefore welcome the initiatives under discussion today, but we remember that the PSD has enormous responsibilities in the situation. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u11	As Mr Joel Sá has said, the problems of the school have been there for many years, but the PSD government has done nothing, except that—it is true, it has to be said—from the removal of some fibrosis plates in 2016. But nothing else has been done! We therefore follow this initiative, and we reiterate the need and urgency of the Government to intervene and comply with a resolution from the Assembly of the Republic in order to give conditions to students and officials, both teachers and non-teachers, and to improve the teaching and learning conditions in that school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u12	I now give the floor to Mrs Maria Augusta Santos for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating draft resolutions submitted by the PSD and BE, which propose to the Government requalification works at the Barcelos High School, in Barcelos. The draft resolutions are part of a set of dozens of initiatives presented in 3. the legislative session, aiming to point out the convenience of re-qualifying the public school building, or for that school, covering the most diverse regions of the national territory. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that these initiatives, each focusing on particular cases, without prejudice to the merit of having a legitimate political interest in specific situations, are, as a whole, ineffective and inconsequential in the view of the definition of a national strategy for the re-qualification and modernization of the school park and its equipment. These casuistic initiatives do not serve the purpose of defining a strategy and methodology that systemizes needs, identifies the means and prioritizes interventions. This is indeed the work being done by the government, a priority work in relation to reality, effective needs and an integrated vision. The works launched in more than 300 pre-school and 1 schools. the cycle, which consists of the pacts to mobilise PT 2020 funds and for which DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) issued an opinion, and in 200 schools of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education, with the cooperation of the authorities, show that the country is implementing, also in this area, but this is achieved with a national strategy of progressive implementation and not with casuistic approaches. Moreover, in many of the draft resolutions presented, inconsistent political positions are manifested, when they are presented, for example, by whom, in the face of the school modernization operation, did not make their mappings or by whom they represent municipalities that have failed or failed to comply with the candidatures and the integration into the list of investments eligible for the Pacts for Development and Territorial Cohesion (PDCT). The abstention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in voting on these draft resolutions does not prejudice our concrete attention to the situation in question. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agrees with the need for future programming of the corrections and weaknesses of the school park, including this school, by correcting what the previous Government did, in particular by not taking into account the respective Community funds available to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u14	To close the debate, Mr Joel Sá, of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I recall that all these initiatives stemmed from the presentation of the draft resolution of the Democratic Social Party in appreciation. The difference is that the Social Democratic Party has left this draft resolution for debate in plenary, while the other parties have discussed this matter in committee. Here is the importance that we give to solving the problem of this school: we did not want to have a simple discussion of the matter in committee, we wanted to do it in plenary. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] I am also referring to the fact that it was a Government of the Social Democratic Party that, at the time, detected the need for this school to be built and built. The Socialist Party has been in government for many years and has done nothing to requalify this school. I recall that the Social Democratic Party, during the four years of the previous government, was obliged to pay for the disillusionment and overthrow of the Socialist Party with the School Park and had no opportunity to re-qualify this school. The Government of the Socialist Party has been in power for four years and had an obligation to re-qualify this school, given the need and urgency of its re-qualification. I also recall that, if it were not the school park regabofe and if there had been a good planning, the money they spent to requalify two schools in the Town Hall of Barcelos would have given to requalify all schools in this municipality. [[PSD applause.]] There would have been fairness with regard to students from the Town Hall of Barcelos if you had been concerned to give the same conditions to all students from the Town Hall of Barcelos. however, they favored each other to the detriment of others, they wanted to do megalomanian works in some schools and nothing in other schools. That is why we call attention, and that is why the Socialist Party has no morals to talk about here today. I thank all the parties who took the initiative to bring this issue to debate, because it is too important for the school community of the Barcelos High School, the Town Hall of Barcelos, and the students of the south bank of the river Cávado, who have degraded conditions in their school. There are first and second students in Barcelos Town Hall and what is intended is that all students are on equal terms. What is shown is that for four years no investment has been made by the Government of the Socialist Party, public investment has been null. And what we checked in this school, we checked in many others, we also checked in the hospital in Barcelos and, in general, in our country. It is therefore demonstrated that there has been no public investment in this as well as in many other matters for four years and that the Socialist Party, this government and the parties that support it have done nothing. What is intended is that this debate should not remain for political rhetoric and that the government should act once and for all in the re-qualification of this school. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u16	Mrs. Members, we are going to debate, in general, the Bill No. 1176 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Clarifies the provisions of Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July in respect of restrictions on institutional advertising by public entities in the electoral period. To open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through this legislative initiative, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to clarify and introduce objective elements and easier to apprehend by the recipients of the rules on coverage and monitoring of acts that take place during the period prior to the electoral campaign periods, so that all political actors can have clear rules that guide their activity, without this altering disproportionately and even, in some contexts, incomprehensible for the functioning of the services, or for communication with the citizens themselves, the normal functioning of the public institutions. Indeed, in 2015 the Assembly of the Republic approved a legislative amendment which, among other matters, regulated the coverage of electoral campaigns for numerous State bodies, but which also introduced rules on institutional advertising by public authorities in a pre-election period, better said, in a period prior to that of the electoral campaign. As it has recently been known, numerous guidelines issued by the National Elections Commission ( National Elections Commission ), despite further revisions and further clarifications, have raised doubts and opened areas where the discomfort of office holders and public administration services has become manifest, generating additional interpretative difficulties. in this sense, it seems to us that it is up to the Assembly of the Republic, having the opportunity to clarify the regime to apply in the future, to use this opportunity and to create rules that are still timely capable of clarifying the existing doubts. It is precisely this purpose that mobilizes us to present this legislative initiative, through the amendment of three aspects of the legislation in force, two of them with a strictly interpretative and clarifying intent and one of them with the aim of effectively pointing out a change. First, by clarifying what would already result from the law in force, but which seems absolutely essential to us to be unequivocal: the entities subject to these limitations must be those whose organs, or their holders, are elected, or whose composition depends on the outcome of the electoral act to be carried out. It makes very little sense to inhibit institutional advertising activity in the municipality of Customs of the Faith when elections are held for the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores. Therefore, this crossing must be absolutely clear in the law. Secondly, it is also important to make it clear that the occurrence of institutional advertising activity for warning of serious occurrences or urgent public needs contained in the law — but also the normal activity of current management — should be an element of communication with citizens and should also remain within the sphere of what is permitted and that can be done. Finally, thirdly, the only substantial change to be introduced to the law is the one that is in line with the period during which these inhibitions should take place, which should not be reported at the time of marking the electoral act—is not so obvious and is not closed in the law—but rather at the time when the listings are given, the moment when it actually becomes known exactly who the candidates are and who should be the persons subject to this inhibition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u18	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have the full willingness to discuss this issue with all the political forces represented in the plenary and we hope that it will be possible to reach a clear consensus and to improve the quality of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u20	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The disparity with which the PS in Parliament tries to save PS's messes in the government takes on increasingly creative contours. Does the PS/government accept invitations or offers that are doubtful whether a member of the government can accept? There is no problem, the PS/Parliament is here to make a law that seems to solve the problem, but that does not solve any problem! Does the PS / Government appoint the family for government office? There is no problem, the PS/Parliament is here to make a law that seems to solve the problem, but that does not solve any problem! Does the PS/government make openings in electoral period? There is no problem, the PS/Parliament is here to make a law that seems to solve the problem, but that does not solve any problem. The modus operandi is always the same: the PS/government makes gross mistakes and the PS/Parliament makes all kinds of pirouettes it can do to give the appearance that it solves the problem. Only not, what it does is legislate to give legal coverage to what is the perpetuation of the PS bullshit. That's how it was with the supply register! That's how "familygate" is! That's how the state's institutional advertising works! I remember that the law of 2015 is of July, when it was already in full electoral campaign for its respective legislative elections. And there was no problem at that time. Whoever was in the government then fully respected the law, and the law was approved unanimously in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u22	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u23	What's the point of this law? This law serves to prevent political bodies from promoting themselves through the means of the State, in a campaign of election or in a pre-election period, benefiting from applications to the detriment of others. That's all this is for this law. in the first hypothesis of the PS could break the law, the PS violated the law, and then the PS comes to change the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u25	And what do you do? As Mr Delgado Alves explained recently, the time is short when the institutional publicity of the State is prohibited — it is prohibited for a shorter period — and only the law applies to the direct organs of that election. What does this mean? in practice, that means: when a member of the government cannot inaugurate anything during a campaign for the legislators because he is a candidate in these elections, he inaugurates a prominent mayor of the party. It's all right, because you can reach the same end. And when a prominent author of the party cannot inaugurate because he is a candidate in these elections, he inaugurates the party member who is in the government. So it's all right. Thus, in practice, the ban on institutional advertising of the State in an electoral period is ended and everything remains the same, and campaigns continue to be carried out at will, with no problem whatsoever. For the CDS, it's not enough to look, it has to be. So the CDS will never compact with this farce. The law of 2015 is a good law. She is not dubious, she perceives perfectly what the goal is. You can perfectly fulfill it, because it has already been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u26	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u27	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, we do not think that allowing propaganda abuses of the parties in power is the way to solve any problem that may possibly exist. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u28	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PS initiative does not seem appropriate or timely. Let us see the following: the principle of the neutrality of public entities before the electoral acts is an invaluable principle and that, in fact, it does not come from the law of 2015, it is much earlier, comes from the 1990s, when it was enshrined in the various electoral laws this principle that public entities should not be instrumentalized in electoral processes. It is clear that the application of the legislation is not acephala. If we are, for example, in European elections and there is a parish board that is run by a group of electors in which none of them is a candidate for the European Parliament, nor does it have any relationship with the candidate parties, it is obvious that the institutional advertising of this parish board is not punishable because it has no connection with the electoral act in the presence. The application of the law is obviously made through the intervention of the NEC, but decisions are always decisions of the courts, in sanctioning terms, so it would be absurd to think that an institutional advertising of a public entity without any relation to the electoral act could be punishable. What the PS proposes here has two problems, from our point of view. First, the PS, aware that standards of this nature should not be changed with ongoing electoral processes, says the following : « No, this is only for 2020 ; for the elections scheduled for 2019 this new law would not apply ». But then we will have to ask a famous question, which is in the imagination of the Socialist Party, and what is this: what is the hurry? In fact, to say that this does not apply now is a fallacy, because if you are going to make a rule that is said to be interpretative, what meaning is it to be said « good, this is the interpretation of the Assembly of the Republic, but it is not for now, this interpretation is only valid from 2020 onwards»? Clearly, this makes no sense! If there was no intention of having these elections implemented, of course it was not now that this legislative initiative was presented. It would be presented, with all ease, in the next legislature. In terms of content, there is something that cannot happen either, which is the fact that the ban on institutional advertising only applies in the elections concerned. In other words, the Government cannot only make institutional publicity in the electoral process for the Assembly of the Republic. So we ask: is the institutional advertising of the government not instrumental, to a very large extent, in autarchic elections, in election campaigns of party chamber presidents who are in the government? Oh, my God! What about the European Parliament? Can't there be an instrumentalisation of the government's institutional advertising in elections to the European Parliament, since the government party is obviously competing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u30	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. The proposal made in this connection to the election in question does not seem real to us and therefore, from our point of view, we do not think that this initiative is acceptable either for opportunity or for content. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u32	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: PSD has worked hard to find a virtue in this bill, but it has not succeeded. Of course, because the PS legislates in a hurry, on top of the knee, to the blight of media pressure, on the case and on the election, which usually sucks!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u35	The story is summed up in three acts. First act: there is a law in force since 2015 that the PS has interpreted the tripa-forra, without brakes, and that is why the Prime Minister set out, by that time, to make openings of health centres and that the former Minister and current leader of the list to the European elections offered us with the announcements of various works of unbalanced costs. Second act: the CNE (National Elections Commission ) tried to put an order in the house, with one or other exaggeration that is not now relevant. Third act: the PS does not agree with the CNE and, from there, comes running to present a bill, pretending to end the abuses he himself practiced, in a sort of thief and police at the same time. You know what this reminds you of, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It has already been said here, reminds you of the case of family appointments. The Socialist Party does not avoid them, acts without ethics, without common sense, in the shivering of codes of conduct and then comes with a sound, as if it were nothing with him, wanting to be the healer of the suitcases he himself created.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u36	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u37	Let us see, then, what the recipe is. First ingredient: reduces the period of restriction of institutional advertising from 90 to 40 days, more than anything else. in a word, the PS wants to have more freedom and more time to campaign without filters, no conditionalisms and no real rules. It is true that the government has more cameras, but that does not free it from having less smell.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u39	The amendments to the law are no longer applicable to the Government, the Assembly of the Republic, or to elections to the European Parliament. They only apply in 2020, which means that in the forthcoming elections the clarification that the PS wants to introduce remains in the drawer. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this project does not clarify anything. To have done what you did, it was worth more to the PS to be quiet! He's gone and changed to worse. by saying that all advertising, various acts, programs, etc. is prohibited. , with the exception of information actions already in progress or periodic or seasonal implementation, creates much more problems than solutions. From now on, for those who want to circumvent the law is very simple, just say that everything was already in progress before delivery of the lists. It was the outdoors that were already with the structures commissioned, it was the design that was already in progress, it was the municipal magazine that was already in the printery and therefore from here it is worth everything! It opens a trap for very dangerous and undesirable situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u40	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u41	I will now finish, Mr President. in the way it is found, this project is, in fact, an anthem to the scheme and subversion. Obviously, the PSD will not place its signature on a law which is deregulated rather than regular and will therefore vote against this hasty initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u42	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our people have already noticed some of the politicians' gestures and, therefore, have almost become popular the idea that if there were elections every year, every year the country was moving faster forward. It is the works concentrated in the year of the elections and therefore all the management of a government that is instrumentalized by the electoral calendar; it is a minister, a prime minister, a chamber president, a board president who is superseded in the months before the elections and who can be everywhere, in all the openings, to do what he did not in the previous three years; and it is clearly and unequivocally a repeated tactic, beaten and petty to use public money and, above all, the interest of the people in terms of personal interests or party interests. Should this be fought? Yes, it must be fought in the name of hygiene in politics and hygiene in the conduct of public destinations, necessary for a quality democracy. Does the law defend this hygiene? Defend. And now, the National Elections Commission has only publicly stated, recalling political parties, decision makers and public agents, that the law existed, that it was to be fulfilled and that it would not look to the side if it received complaints about its non-compliance. Get out of there, what happened immediately? Those who had already been the object of a complaint, those who had already been indicated by the National Elections Commission as guilty and — and this is the fundamental part — decided as guilty by the Constitutional Court, complained that there was a new law of the bite. So the Socialist Party decided to create a new hatred of institutional estimation and make a law, clearly and unequivocally, against the National Elections Commission. If there were any doubts, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, in his initial speech, recalled that there were numerous interpretations, that there were various ways of interpreting the law by the National Elections Commission when, in practice, those who did not understand, because he did not want to understand, was the Socialist Party, whether he was in government or in autarchic space. Now, from this point of view, this bill is a nado-morto. It has already been noticed that no bench accompanies him, it has already been realized that he serves only the interests of the Socialist Party and has also realized that he renders a bad service to the country, to our democracy, to transparency and to a requirement, yes, worthy of good conduct of public money. So the only thing left is a bad choice of the Socialist Party. I could have used the schedule to defend the National Health Service, defend careers of state workers, defend better rights for Portuguese workers, but not, decided to use an agenda to wage a war against the National Elections Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u44	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u45	I will finish, Mr. President. Each one chooses its priorities and we already understand which are the PS's priorities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u46	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke for the closing of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to stress that it is unfortunate that, at the pre-election stage, we lose the ability to have a debate with respect and without failing the subjects, without failing the target. With the honourable exception of Mr António Filipe, who discussed the topic and sought to express his objections, what we have unfortunately heard was a mix of topics that do not have to do with what is on the table, a distortion of facts that does not correspond to the intention of the proposal and which is certainly far from being a war declared to any State body. Rather, there are new guidelines that give rise to doubts about the authorships of all parties, which generate doubts and complaints from one party against the other. In fact, I am surprised to hear Mr. Carlos Peixoto sitting on the same bench as Mrs. Sandra Pereira, who was the subject of a complaint from the CDS for having been present at the inauguration of a health centre, and who, of course, rejected this intervention for being devoid of sense, in the context of the presence in a current act, in an act of institutional publicity or communication of a fact. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] Therefore, the distortion of the facts does not help to build the regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us be clear: let us not miss the substance of the subject. Is there an additional confusion and doubts about the application of the law? There! Is there any change that can be a cause of confusion right now and which can be clarified by the House? Yes! We are available to present a review of the law, with a timetable, in fact, more distant from the electoral act than what happened in 2015, as Mr. It is not a question of legislating at the top of the goal but rather more time than in the last legislative amendment. And by the way, I remember that the Left Block voted against her in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u48	You voted in favour of this amendment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u49	Therefore, in this sense, it is not clear how we do not have a serious debate on the topics that are on the table and which essentially concern three issues which have been mentioned recently, with correctness, by Mr António Filipe. In fact, it is not understandable that something that has nothing to do with the current electoral act is likely to have the same rules and restrictions as the other cases. This is not clear at the moment! It is not clear in numerous locals and it is not clear following an approach formulated. This is what we intend to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u51	Nor does the deadline seem reasonable to us to be so extensive, but still we said'very well, it remains for the next electoral acts, but it is important to clarify it now'.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u52	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u53	I will finish, Mr. President. When three electoral acts take place in the same year, the impact on institutional advertising and the dissemination of public services activities—because it is the sum of three 90-day periods! — it is devastating to the capacity of public services to communicate with citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u54	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u55	I'll finish. Mr. President. To say that public services are all insurmountable villains and that citizens have no discernment to realize the difference between a useful communication for their lives and an act of mere propaganda is also to lower citizens! We do not want to do this, we are willing to improve the regime, we are open to review it and we hope that everyone will say 'present' in this final effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u56	We will move on to the third point of the agenda, which is from the assessment of Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career[ Parliamentary Assessments No 115 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 125 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). You have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the beginning of the debate of this parliamentary assessment, scheduled by the Left Block, on the rules of transition to the career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, I want, first of all, and on behalf of my parliamentary group, to greet these professionals. I welcome those who attend this debate, those who wanted to be here but could not be and all the professionals, without exception, for the essential work they do on a daily basis. The Left Block expects no one in this Chamber to have any doubt about the importance of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, their differentiation, the formative requirement of these professions or their functional complexity. We hope that there is no doubt about the importance of a technician of clinical analysis or pathological anatomy, physiotherapist or oral hygienist, radiology or radiotherapy technique. This is only to name some of the professions that are part of this group. We hope that there will also be no doubt about the need for a career, transitional rules, wage levels and opportunities for progress consistent with all this. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we bring to Parliament today does nothing of this. To be applied, approximately 97 % of TSDT (higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians) will be placed at the base of the career, leading to many professionals, who were already in higher categories, retreat to the basic category of the special career. To be applied, the Government's decree of law will ignore and delete all time of service and all points obtained by evaluation, which will make professionals with 10, 15, 20 or more years of service placed in the first pay position of the first category of career, almost without any chance of progressing until the end of their working life. This is neither recognition nor dignity of professions. This isn't fair. This does not make due recognition of the importance of TSDTs. For this reason, the Left Block presents today several amendments to the decree published by the Government. With these proposals, we guarantee justice in the remuneration position of professionals, highlighting all the time and all points in the transition to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. With these proposals, we guarantee justice in the transition of workers, making those already in the higher category transit to higher category and those in intermediate categories transit to intermediate category. With these proposals, we guarantee justice in the perspective of progress, including remuneration. For this reason, it is important that wage increases in case of progression are not lower than those that existed in the preterit career. These are the amendments we have already tabled to the Bureau of the Assembly. In conclusion, I would also like to say that with these proposals the Left Block does what the Government did not want to do: to value professionals and strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u58	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. With these proposals, we define fair transitional rules that create a career that effectively recognizes the importance of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u60	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The first words of the CFP Parliamentary Group go to the workers present here and to the workers who are in the National Health Service to ensure the provision of health care. Senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians fought about 20 years for career review. They fought for a career that recognized the importance of their work, their literary skills, knowledge and skills acquired and the years dedicated to the National Health Service. However, Decree-Law No. 25 / 2019 of 11 February, published two years after the diploma that creates the current career has been published, completely distorts the legitimate aspirations and demands of workers. The diploma sets out the years of work, knowledge and skills currently held by these professionals, which we consider unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that the thawings, carried out from 2018 onwards, are being made in the old career and not in the current career. This is only the case by choice of the PS Government, which has published diplomas with a two-year gap. That is, when, in 2017, he published his career diploma, he left to regulate matters as important as transition, wage table and evaluation system. This option places the overwhelming majority of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in the first position of the first category. That is, there are workers with more than 25 years of work who do not have any wage valuation and besides, they are not recognized the knowledge then acquired nor there will be differentiation with those who have just entered the SNS. The professional careers were and are central elements for the provision of quality health care and for the strengthening of the National Health Service. The position of the CFP is very clear about who is responsible for the discussion, replacement, modification and creation of the new careers of the Public Administration. This is the subject of collective bargaining between workers'representative organisations and the government, which must involve workers and their representative organisations deeply in a serious and effective process, principle that we do not abdicate. however, in the present case, the government unilaterally discontinued the negotiation process, refusing the proposals and demands of workers, so the Assembly of the Republic can and should make this discussion to defend professionals, users and the National Health Service. It is precisely for this purpose that we are discussing this Parliamentary assessment today. We defend that the years of work have to be guaranteed and therefore propose that thawing be done in the current career and not in the old, as happened with other careers published at the same time. We eliminated access quotas to the higher categories in the career. We safeguard that, in the transition to the new career, all categories are filled and we also safeguard that this scheme applies to all workers, regardless of the link.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u62	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. We caution and protect matters as central as progress, remuneration and changes in remuneration levels, which are to be applied from January 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u64	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u65	These are the proposals we have put forward and we are sure that they are the ones that defend the workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u66	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessment presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party is aimed at solving a problem that the government has created, has dragged and has resolved badly. I refer to the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, whose new career the former PSD/CDS government has been ready in 2015, even after publishing their diplomas in the Work and Employment Bulletin.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u68	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u69	in this important professional career, we have several professionals of varied areas, such as biomedical and laboratory sciences, medical image and radiotherapy, therapy and rehabilitation, vision, hearing, oral health, pharmacy, diet, among many others. The current government suspended the process and it took two years to pass Decree-Law No 111 / 2017, a diploma that established the new legal regime of these professionals but omitted the transitional rules for the new career, its structure and the new wage table. In the meantime, this government has spent over a year and a half in negotiations with the unions to approve, unilaterally, a diploma that makes absolute table of the rights of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. In fact, Decree-Law No. 25 / 2019 established the transitional rules that put more than 90 % of these professionals on the basis of the new career, ignoring all the time of service already provided by them, which, in many cases, affects professionals with 20 or more years of service. In other words, for the Government, one of these senior technicians who takes office in 2019 must have the same pay position as another technician who has been in office for 20 or 25 years. Moreover, the so-called Decree-Law strongly restricts any possibility of progression to the end of the working life of these professionals who today have more time of service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD does not deal with this government vision, a vision that disregards health professionals. The government should have legislated a long time ago and should have done so well, avoiding creating these injustices. But the truth is that the government seems more and more to wish for confrontation with health professionals, as is the case with doctors and nurses and how now it also seems to happen with the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. Today, we greet those who are here and we also greet the many who would like to be here, but were prevented by the Minister. The truth is that Portugal has today a government whose incompetence and irresponsibility multiplies injustices and inequalities among citizens, systematically and repeatedly violating basic principles of labour law and even the rule of law. That is why, as the Government has legislated, as it has said, late and bad, Parliament is now obliged to take the initiative to correct its errors and the gruesome inequalities it has created. The proposals presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group today are a contribution to a spirit of openness and dialogue with the other partisan forces in order to achieve a compromise that will enable them to overcome the situation that this Government has created. for our part, the PSD will always be on the side of solving the problems and it is with this spirit that we will contribute to diminishing an injustice that the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have suffered a lot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u70	It is now time to speak to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, through Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, as has already been said, we are discussing today the requests for parliamentary review of a decree of law, a bad decree of this government — one more — on the career of the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy. It is inevitable to begin with the obvious and correctness of what is right and fair, which is to enhance the undeniable value of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in the health system, in the SNS, where they are more than 8,000. The CDS reaffirms here, as it has indeed done, that it has no doubt about the relevance of its work and its contribution to the health of its citizens. We greatly value your contribution and your work. Unfortunately, it seems that this is not what the Government has done today, clearly giving further evidence that it devalues the efforts and contributions of professionals to the success of the SNS and to the health of Portuguese. The government showed a lack of consideration in the negotiations, lack of promises, pretended it did business and then came late and in bad hours trying to correct a delay with a bad product. There are several professional groups, already said here, which are clearly in conflict, not today, but throughout the legislature. For a government that wanted to announce social peace — stop! — today, we have another demonstration that the negotiating disability is evident and that the disregard for professional groups and the way of dealing is the most negative. They therefore announced social peace, but there is a climate of 'inconsistencies' and successive disrespect by professional groups. The publication of Decree-Law No. 25 / 2019 is a proof of disregard, it is proof that they ignored steps that had been given, positive and decisive. It is a decree that seriously reads the rights of professionals, which introduces serious injustices and injustices in terms of transitions and counting of service time. It is a decree that translates, once again, as the CDS has widely said, a standard of this government: successive failures and then the attempt to correct them running. We are pleased that the various parliamentary groups that support this government and that make it possible to continue here today are saying that a mistake must be corrected by that same Government which supports it. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] What the CDS is actually doing is following up on the concerns and proposals put forward. We understand that there is a broad consensus and we only hope that we will be able to correct a serious injustice here today. Once again, we want to emphasize that superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians are relevant to the national health system, to the National Health Service, and should not be treated in this way. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u72	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the parliamentary appreciation of the PSD and the position of the CDS today, we are once again witnessing a tragic scene of political cynicism. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u74	The champions of the destruction of the National Health Service, those who cut the most in public services, those who increased the moderate rates, those who most harmed the health professionals are the same ones that today, absolutely cynically, join the PCP and the Left Block in the defense of health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u75	Cynic is Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u76	They may well say: "The old days are gone. Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho has already left». ‘Dr. Rui Rio is different’ — some will say. That's not true! When the government recovered at 35 hours, it resumed the payment of overtime, recovered the overall income of health professionals, where was the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u77	I was paying debts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u78	Calling against the measures, waiting for the arrival of the devil, crying for bankruptcy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, as far as PSD is concerned, we're talking. Let us then consider the parliamentary assessments of the CFP and the Left Block. The gentlemen. Members will be able to do the exercise that we are used to: the government does, but you always say that we should go further. It is a pleasant position — I know — we could do the same today and also in the process of specialty. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But let's go to the specific case: the government has done it! The government reviewed the career that technicians had been waiting for 20 years, and the government defrosted the careers that had been frozen for more than 15 years. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are making this Parliamentary assessment today, this is due to a simple fact: the government has done it! It wasn't the CDS, it wasn't the PSD, it wasn't the Block or the PCP, it was the government that approved a diploma that benefits the generality of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians—and it's not me that I say so, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u79	It doesn't benefit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u80	That's why Mrs. Minister didn't let the professionals come here today!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u81	Question : if the diploma is so bad, if the diploma is so harmful to the rights of workers, why did they not require, in the context of this parliamentary assessment, the cessation of the diploma? Oh, my God! If the diploma is so bad, if it should not be in force, why did the applicants not immediately suspend its effects? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u83	Why, then, do they not eliminate the effect of the new career diploma? Oh, my God! Or why do they not also eliminate professional categories? Oh, my God! Or why do they not eliminate the remuneration progressions, which allow some of the technicians to gain more than 200 € per month, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Why? Oh, my God! Well, the position of the PS Parliamentary Group is clear: what we have done, in the last three years, in the National Health Service and with regard to professionals, we are proud. Would we like to go further? Of course we would. Are we available to continue working and improving in this process? Of course we are. One thing is certain: we will expose those who, especially without authority, want to put the PS on a rug that doesn't sit us down. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The champion of the destruction of the SNS and the attack on health professionals is in Parliament, but sits on the right. It is against him that we must all fight: the parties, the health professionals and the citizens. We'll keep doing our part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u84	To speak on behalf of the Government, you have the floor, first of all, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Francisco Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, in fact, approved this decree on transitions and careers as a superior technician in diagnosis and therapy, a career that professionals had been waiting for almost 20 years and a review they had been entitled to for more than 10 years. The PSD claims that it has left work, it claims failure, but neither the PSD nor the CDS have been able to achieve what the government has achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u86	No, the PS attacked the government, along with the BE and the PCP! Otherwise, we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u87	Has the government been as far as I would like to go with these conditions? Of course, in this situation, as in any other situation, we would like to have gone further in valuing more than 8000 workers from the National Health Service, which we respect very much and which are fundamental, even today, at a time when technologies are increasingly relevant. I would just like to say that about 5500 workers had remuneration valuations exactly for the 1200 € — the initial position, which had a very substantial increase — and, of course, all the cross-cutting measures taken by the Government in relation to all professionals. I would also like to mention two additional points: firstly, the commitment, which was written, of still this year, to open promotion competitions for the higher categories; and secondly, the increase in the number of professionals, already carried out in about 500, and of course we want to have the conditions to continue the recruitment of these professionals, because they need, every day, in the services. Mr President, with your permission, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment will also speak on this point. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u88	The Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca, has the floor to speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government respects the expectations of employees of all Public Administration careers and, with full responsibility, seeks to ensure the negotiation processes with a view to the whole and with a deep knowledge of the rules in force in our legal order. The Government seeks to ensure in the negotiating processes two fundamental principles: equality between workers and sustainability, because the Government knows that it cannot assume expenditure that is not comportable in the present and future, because it constitutes a permanent increase in the wage mass. in this career, the rules that are in force, which were approved in 2014, through Law No. 35 / 2014, were complied with, and that stem from the Law of Labour in Public Functions and the diploma that approved it. in this career review process, two fundamental principles are observed: neutrality in the remuneration transition, with a deviation of 11 million euros that corresponds to the increase of the level of functional complexity of career, grade 2 to grade 3, and the guarantee that only those with remuneration valuation restart the counting of points for future remuneration valuation. This whole view is fundamental...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u90	The Secretary of State has already exceeded her time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u91	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. The overall vision and the guarantee of equity and sustainability are fundamental principles, with which the Government commits itself and which will continue to fulfil in the review of all careers in which it intervenes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u92	Before we proceed, I inform the House that the Bureau has reached the proposed amendments to the Decree of the Left Block, the PCP and the PSD, which will be referred to its committee. To close this debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in fact, in this 20- to 30-minute debate, we are debating 20 years of struggle, during which the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have fought—and well! — by a worthy career. It is true that in August 2017, the career regime was published, but it is also true that this publication referred to the definition of very important rules in future such as transition, remuneration and evaluation. And it is no less true that the publication of these very important rules took a year and a half and was now unilaterally published. The question is this: why has this proposal been published unilaterally? Why did the workers not adhere to this proposal? Why do workers refuse this proposal? The answer is very simple: because it is a bad proposal. That is why we have asked for the appreciation of this decree and we want to make amendments to it. This is a bad proposal, but with the proposals which the Left Block has already announced, it can become a good proposal for workers. If we count all the time of service, if we count all the points obtained, if we ensure that the transitions are well done and that no worker falls by category or falls back on the progression that he had already made in his career, we can make this decree a good proposal. That is what we want and this is the time of the Assembly of the Republic to do this work. I was asking the Member of the Socialist Party why, then, we did not put forward a proposal for an end to work. We did not do it for a very simple reason: because void is not what we desire. We do not want the void in the career, which was what professionals had for a year and a half. What we want is a decent career, with dignified transitions, with decent wages, and beating-CL - we will therefore be here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. This concludes the debate of Parliamentary Opinions Nos 115 / XIII / 4. a, 123 / XIII / 4. a and 125 / XIII / 4. a. We now pass on to the appreciation of the Resolution Project No 2052 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to effectively encourage the establishment of integrated responsibility centres. To begin this debate, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are presenting a draft resolution aimed at improving the functioning of the SNS, a central concern that the CDS has largely proved. The SNS has been through, in recent years, particularly with the socialist governance supported by the left benches, serious problems. Sub-financing is only one of them; the lack of effective investment in the SNS, with successive captives, and the lack of attention to professionals and their needs—as indeed it was explicit during the previous debate—are more of the serious situations that this government has allowed. We do not forget the options that have been taken, in which, clearly, investment in public services has been changed by the deficit, an option that has brought worse health to the Portuguese, because of the garrot of finances, which continues to make one feel. These are options that we do not forget and we remember that this government and the parties who support it and that each budget has made it possible for this action to assume its responsibilities and remove the proper consequences from there. on the side of the CDS, we will not stop paying attention. In addition to the issues of under-financing, lack of investment and widespread disrespect by health professionals, there are clearly aspects in this government that relate to the restriction of autonomy in decisions on human resources hiring and the organization of services. The CDS has always made politics for the positive and, for each criticism, it is bringing forward proposals. That is what we have done with regard to the subject we are discussing today, with regard to questions of the autonomy of services, when we put forward proposals for the model of funding of SNS hospitals for results and for strengthening the autonomy of hospitals. We are resubmitting concrete proposals today — the ladies and gentlemen. Members know what we are saying—and we call the government's attention to fulfilling promises he made and expectations that he once again generated, with what he published and the announcements he did in 2017, and did not. Surely we all agree that the proposals on integrated responsibility centres are to apply, but unfortunately, in the field, in our visits, that is not what we have seen. We learned that when we heard the Portuguese Association of Hospital Administrators, who, after the resignation of Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes, were signed 89 letters of commitment to move forward with integrated responsibility centres. What is made of these proposals? What is made of these requests? What we know is that the government has not encouraged, it has not created conditions, it has not given way for this step in the reorganization and strengthening of the responsibility and autonomy of hospitals to be given.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u96	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish, if you please?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u97	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, what we want today is that the government fulfills what it has promised and passes from easy and dishonest propaganda to acts. The CDS will do its part and we'll wait for the other parties to do theirs. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The centers of responsibility have been established in Portugal for more than three decades, by a Government of the Social Democratic Party, in the time when he was Minister of Health to Dr. Leonor Beauty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u101	The objective of these centers of responsibility was to contribute, through a greater managerial and organizational autonomy, to ensure that the hospitals of the National Health Service achieve greater technical and social efficiency. Later, in 1999, integrated responsibility centres were set up, determining that their funding should depend on the volume of activity performed, productivity levels and the quality of the results achieved. This philosophy, although very rarely brought to practice, was again the object of the legislator's attention in 2003 and then in 2005 in the sense of greater decentralization of the functional structure of this organizational model and internal contractualization, with autonomy and responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u103	The current government has also legislated on this subject in 2016 and 2017, and the former Minister of Health promised that integrated responsibility centres would still be a reality in that year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u105	The problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been three years and nothing! It's been three years and nothing happened! It is true that responsibility centres must find in the implementation of the programme contracts negotiated with hospitals an environment that is particularly conducive to their development. And it is also true that there are some successful experiences in this field, as is the case with the Centre for Integrated Responsibility of the Cardiothoracic Surgery and Transplantation of Thoracic Organs of the Hospital and University Center of Coimbra, a status that has been coming since 1998. However, the fact is that, as I said in the past four years, despite many promises — indeed, as usual — the government has done nothing concrete in this area too. The CDS now recommends that the Government encourage the establishment of integrated responsibility centres. A simple recommendation—is a fact—but that it will do nothing, because this government, at the end of its term of office, will do nothing now, after nothing has done in the last four years. For PSD, what matters is looking to the future! A future in which integrated responsibility centres are effectively disseminated in SNS hospitals as a new management model, which enhances the value of health. A future in which the autonomy of the management of hospitals is strengthened, favouring the responsibility and accountability of hospital decision makers, teamwork, and enhancing good practices, for the benefit of citizens who use public health services, so that the involvement and motivation of SNS professionals is once again a reality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for PSD, this future begins in October 2019! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u106	Mr João Marques of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we see today, here, is not unpublished, is more than that. The CDS is once again presenting a draft resolution to propose to the Government to do what it is already doing. This, just for the CDS to do what? To come, then, to say that it was on your initiative that these measures have been implemented! Once again, what we are observing here today is an exercise of demagogy and electoralism, it is another moment to the CDS, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of integrated responsibility centres is part of a set of political initiatives that this Socialist Party Government has implemented, in a process of changing the model of hospital management and the empowerment of hospitals. It was this government that legislated and regulated with the publication of Decree-Law No. 18/2007 and Portarias Nos. 330 / 2017 and 71 / 2018, the creation of the necessary conditions for the implementation of the responsibility centres integrated in the National Health Service. The organizational structures of intermediate management are integrated in a process of increasing the autonomy of hospitals, which requires greater involvement and accountability of professionals, but which recognizes and encourages their performance in the provision of care. The increased accessibility and reduction of response times, in a logic of profitability of installed capacity, are the basic objectives of integrated responsibility centres, i.e. more and better care for users, more recognition and satisfaction of professionals, more sustainability of the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current reality is 14 integrated responsibility centres created throughout the country, representative of a process that is continuously and increasingly anticipated. They are organic structures of intermediate management that are dependent on the boards of management of the public corporate entities of the National Health Service, so its creation is a process conducted entirely by the boards of administration. Integrated responsibility centres enjoy administrative and economic and financial functional autonomy, but are an integral part of the planning and management instruments of these hospital units, where the provision of human resources, and others, necessary for their functioning. The Government has created the necessary conditions for the implementation of these integrated responsibility centres, so it is up to the board of directors, in the field of their managerial autonomy, to decide whether or not to set up them. Once again, the CDS comes to this debate, years in advance, to the debate of the management and autonomy of the entities of the National Health Service, and with the usual hypocrisy and political demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u108	The next intervention is Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have been watching, for a few months now, or perhaps a few weeks—with greater intensity, as the elections approach, but always so—, the CDS-PP has always announced visits, some of them to hospitals, and has always manifested, although we know that it is not really true, a hypothetical concern with the National Health Service, etc. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But, indeed, then, it has a difficulty, visible up to this draft resolution. Does the CDS-PP want to talk about the National Health Service: "what are we going to propose? » — thinks the CDS-PP. «Let us say...» — as is the draft resolution — «... that there is a financial sustainability problem and propose an increase in the budget for the National Health Service? No, we cannot do that,..." — the CDS-PP thinks — «... because, when we were in government, we cut EUR 1 billion in the budget of the National Health Service and, therefore, it was a bit strange. But we cannot say that either, because we voted against all the State budgets that increased the budget of the National Health Service. So we are talking about sustainability, but we cannot talk about increasing the budget, we have to find something else." They talk about human resources, or about workers, as we would say, and what does the CDS propose? More workers? No, neither can they themselves propose this because, when they were in the government, they sent 4400 SNS workers. So, it would be a little strange the CDS-PP now to say that he wanted more workers. So what do you propose here? They propose a rationalization of human resources. I believe that the workers even stand up when they hear the CDS-PP talk about rationalization, because they already know what the CDS-PP understands by rationalizing human resources. But we continue to read the draft resolution and the CDS-PP, at a certain point, continuing to talk about workers, proposes what? Valuation, dignity? Don't! As we saw in the previous debate, about the TSDT career, the CDS said some things, but proposals for the career there were none. Therefore, the CDS-PP has this difficulty: it wants to talk about the National Health Service, by approaching the elections, but it cannot propose great things, even for its record, in the past, for its history in the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u110	For example, it speaks of autonomy. Well, it is forgotten to say that, for example, the Left Block has already presented draft laws here so that the entities of the National Health Service would be removed from the application of the Law of Commitments — which, even by hospital administrators, is seen as one of the main garrots to the autonomy of the National Health Service — and the CDS-PP did not follow the proposals of the Left Block. Therefore, autonomy q.b. ( how much is enough), when it works and for the electorate to see, according to the CDS-PP. So they are stuck to a draft resolution that proposes something that is already provided for in the law, which proposes something that, as the honourable Member said, even had more than 80 letters of compromise for operation,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] ... but what is really fundamental, which is investment, budget and professionals, is not proposed. It proposes a management solution, which is always the solution of those who want to look at the National Health Service to cut more and more to each proposal it presents. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u111	The next intervention is the CFP, through Mr João Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. The CDS brings the debate today, which, in its perspective, believes is necessary to implement the integrated responsibility centres. It justifies the CDS to be needed—and said - an internal reorganization of hospitals, bringing about a rationalization of resources and equipment, taking into account the population they serve and the effective production. With the rationalization of resources, either the CDS places the central point of providing care in the economic perspective, rather than defining that the allocation of resources and equipment is made according to the need for public response meet the needs of the population serving. Of course, the CDS solves the difficulties of the SNS with magical business management and of course, as it is quite explicit, with rationalization. For the CFP, the constraints and inefficiencies existing in health services are perfectly out of reach, so there is the Government's will to respond, with the necessary investment, to the problems that have been identified. The CFP believes that the best way to defend the right to health for all Portuguese is to value and hold the National Health Service accountable and not to provide care in a logic that stimulates the formation of self-employed and/or self-organized groups, which can create a complex health care organization in two ways within the health services themselves. This concern is not left out of the risk of creating inequalities in terms of working conditions, operation, availability of means and financing, based on a mere allocation of incentives to produce contractual indicators, neglecting or even devaluing uncontracted care needs or disrespecting services which, in a committed manner, produce the same or best indicators, but which escape the incentives because they do not want or cannot be constituted as integrated responsibility centres. We have no doubt of the importance of valuing the careers of all professionals, of all health workers, especially with regard to the need for wage valuation and prospects for professional development. That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we clearly follow the need to assign more administrative and financial autonomy in the management to the entities of the National Health Service. We understand that it should be an improvement in the organization of work, with improvement in the response to users, but that it responds to the needs and needs of the people and not to purely economic interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u113	To close this debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of this debate, I would like to stress that the CDS believes that it is doing what it should do, that it is demanding that the government turn from words to acts. And no, Mr. João Marques, the government is not fulfilling, as you said here. Look, the government promises, but it doesn't, the government promises, but it doesn't! He promised that we would have 11 pilot projects, and this was announced in the State Budget, but we are in April—in April! — and on the ground, you heard the hospitals: zero! Zero! So tell me where you are... [[Protests by PS MP João Marques.]] Yes, it is a process, it is the 'now it is'! It's been three years without doing anything and now it's going to be, but it hasn't happened yet. The government has also promised five hospitals that have already inaugurated, re-emerged, there are models and projects. Where are they? Zero, zero! The government also promised to sign programme contracts. Where are they? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u115	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u116	Therefore, the reminder must be for your bench: remember the government that fulfills what you promised and that you are not doing. I believe that, at the end of this debate, we need to leave systematic apology, symptomatic irresponsibility and lack of compliance and indeed say what matters to SNS, professionals and Portuguese. And don't tell us that in the previous government we didn't do our part. Look, we started, of course, getting the country out of bankruptcy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u117	Well remembered! Of your bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u118	...and allow the National Health Service not to collapse, as you did and on the edge of the state where they left it. I will end by saying that the registration we have is to save the country from the state to which you lead it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u120	I hope things don't happen again and we're not watching a janja vu, as usual.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u122	What I want to say here is that the CDS is concerned about improving the state of the SNS, you don't really,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u123	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u124	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, the CDS is concerned about improving the state of the SNS, neither are you concerned about the ideological prejudice, are concerned about the side where the proposals come from and are not concerned about the kindness and effectiveness of the proposals. Mrs. Members, turn from words to acts and we will certainly have a better SNS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u125	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate of the draft resolution No 2052 / XIII / 4. a. We move on to the last point of our agenda today, which is that of the evaluation of the draft resolution No 2049 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the Portugal decoupling procedure of the budgetary treaty. To begin the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate to a draft resolution which advocates Portugal's disengagement from the budget treaty and which recommends that the Government take the necessary steps within the European Union to achieve this objective and to promote a programme of support to countries which have suffered damage as a result of the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact and the achievement of economic and monetary union. The budgetary treaty, imposed by the Franco-German axis and assumed in Portugal by PS, PSD and CDS, is one of the central instruments of the so-called « European construction », directed and designed according to the interests of the great transnational monopolies, oriented towards the concentration of power in supranational institutions and distant from the control of peoples, a European construction made at the expense of the loss of sovereignty and the erosion of democracy and the living conditions of workers and peoples. The budget treaty has been designed to take further the conditioning of the budgetary policy of the euro area States, institutionalizing budgetary constraints and constraints at the expense of wages, rights and public investment, while at the same time emphasizing mechanisms of blackmail, pressure and interference associated with the single currency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the negative consequences of the implementation of the budget treaty are clearly visible. Instead of investing in valuing workers' incomes, strengthening their rights or public investment to overcome the structural deficits that persist in our country, the aim of the accelerated reduction of deficit and public debt was chosen. The budget treaty is not a distant, abstract, disconnected thing from the daily life of the Portuguese. It is something that has a direct, very significant impact on our lives! Limitations and constraints imposed by the rules of the budget treaty prevent financial resources from being directed for the valuation of wages and pensions, for the valuation of careers, for the counting of service time in special careers, for the hiring of missing workers in the National Health Service or in the public school. The limitations and constraints imposed by the rules of the budget treaty prevent financial resources from being directed towards the re-qualification and construction of schools, health centres and hospitals, for the strengthening of rail and ship rolling stock to ensure quality public transport, for the increase of the supply of social housing, for public support for culture, for the necessary investment that enhances territorial cohesion and for the increase of national production. These are the harsh consequences of the budgetary treaty assumed by PS, PSD and CDS. To continue to subject Portugal to the rules of the budget treaty is to bind our country to constraints and limitations, to strangle the present and condition the future of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u127	The next intervention is by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Block of Left. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The topic that the CFP project brings today is of the greatest importance and, indeed, it has sinned because of the lack of public debate, but above all, of democratic scrutiny. The budgetary treaty was approved in Portugal in 2012, were Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas in the government and thus linked the country to perpetual austerity and the history of this treaty is revealing how, in essence, this European project dismisses democracy and the will of peoples. It was born at a very specific time, in the heat of the euro area crisis and in a political context that divided Europe between creditors and debtors, between the virtuouss of the centre and the northern and the tributaries of the southern periphery and in which debt was the argument to reinforce the old rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and transform them into a vest of forces to the peoples. But it was also a document which did not deserve the unanimity of the Member States and therefore constituted an intergovernmental treaty, with the commitment that within five years it would be included in Community law. in fact, the budget treaty only served to prevent and condition the development of countries and in Portugal we had very strong reflections of these restrictions: cut in public investment, indiscriminate cut in wages and pensions, retreat in labour rights, unwarranted budgetary constraints, finally served the budget treaty. And in practice, it also allowed the European Commission to have the right to prior control of each country's budgetary policies, before its submission to national parliaments, and thus the new rules guarantee this austerity. in this model, the peoples only entered the part of the equation that implied impoverishment, the sharpening of inequalities and the destruction of the social state. Therefore, the budgetary treaty is not only useful for one thing: to help the economies of countries or at least the vast majority of countries. In fact, it is still significant that in Portugal we only started to have economic growth when we cut off exactly many of the measures that came after the budget treaty. Perhaps that is why some Members of the Socialist Party in the European Parliament have followed the report of Euro MP Marisa Matias, who rejected the inclusion of the budgetary treaty in Community law. I am glad that this has been the case in the European Parliament. But, as already mentioned, the European Commission will try everything to take advantage of it. This treaty was not enough to be hurt, since its very beginning, by a lack of tremendous democracy and not by imposing a few on almost all. Despite all this, there are still attempts at bureaucratic blows to get what the European Parliament has rejected. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that on the left side of the Left Block we have always fought against this treaty and we will continue to do so because it is nothing more than a tie on sovereign decisions and on the possibilities of economic growth and living conditions in each country. for our part, we have no doubt and there can be no doubt about it, because the price of not fighting this budget treaty is to return to austerity without limits, which has proved to be the wrong recipe. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budgetary treaty was discussed and ratified in this Chamber in April 2012. at the time, the PS said that the treaty did not really respond to the crisis, censored the punitive temptation and ideological vertigo of an ultraliberal right junctural majority in Europe, which wanted to perpetuate its vision and proposed that the government initiate the necessary efforts, with the European partners, to attach to this treaty an economic and social dimension. But PSD, CDS, PCP, Left Block and Greens voted against this PS initiative. Having said that, the budgetary treaty provided for its integration into the Union treaties five years later, after evaluation. Nor was the assessment made, nor was the budgetary treaty incorporated into the Union treaties in January 2018. The European Parliament recently rejected this integration, but without the vote of the PPE ( European People's Party ). It demanded an assessment before this integration and this evaluation is essential: it is necessary to look at the Portuguese case; for example, for the policy of the previous government, for cuts in pensions, wages, rights; it is necessary to look at the policy of this government, which has returned wages, retired pensions and restored rights with the same budget treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u131	All right! [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u132	But it is necessary to look at the enormous confusion that exists around nuclear concepts such as structural deficit or potential growth. Centeno, Minister of Finance, with some of his colleagues, wrote to the presidents of the European institutions in order to clarify these concepts. All this proves that this budget treaty must have a good review. Finally, the budgetary treaty must be subject to a thorough review and therefore socialists will be beaten in the European Parliament. As long as the treaty exists, it is to be respected, exploring to the limit, taking advantage of all the flexibility that the treaty allows. This has been the policy of this government: a sense of responsibility for respecting its European commitments, demanding the use of flexibility and, at the same time, acting within the framework of the European Union to improve economic, budgetary and social policies in a balanced coordination of these three pillars. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u133	The next intervention is by Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, best known by the budget treaty, represents, in the perspective of the Greens, an effort to definitely transform the European Union into an instrument of neoliberalism, in tune with the interests of the major economic groups and, above all, with the interests of the major European banks. The peoples of Europe, which have never, indeed, received much attention from the European Union's policies, with the budgetary treaty were referred to an even more residual plan. Moreover, in a Europe which is so democratic, it is still curious that, in view of the rejection of the transposition of the budgetary treaty into the legal system of the European Union by the European Parliament, following, moreover, the report, also negative, of the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, rather than the subsequent repeal, which was what should happen in the face of the rejection of the European Parliament, the budgetary treaty continues in force for the Member States which have subscribed to that intergovernmental treaty where Portugal is included. And so are the procedures of this European Union where it becomes increasingly visible that it is the economic power, it is the great multinationals who want to order. A treaty is, first of all, an agreement and an agreement must be good for all parties. Therefore, from the perspective of the Greens, it is important to know whether the budget treaty is good for our country or whether it is bad for our interests. What matters is whether the budget treaty is favourable or unfavourable at the level of our economy. What is interesting is whether the budget treaty is improving the quality of life of Portuguese people or, on the contrary, it is worsening. basically, the question is whether the budget treaty is an element that is contributing to the development of our country, of our economy, and, of the assessment made by the Greens of the budget treaty, this treaty is not good for our economy, it is not positive for the interests of the Portuguese, on the contrary, and is, in fact, representing a monumental obstacle, a monstrous obstacle to the economic and social development of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u136	The Greens therefore also consider that the Portuguese Government should initiate the process of disengagement of Portugal from the budget treaty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u137	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative that the CFP brings to us today and the four interventions we have just heard are an attempt exercise of these parties to keep some speech about matters on which they have acted in a totally opposite direction to the speech they have now made for four years. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u139	The budget treaty, since it was approved, has complied with seven budgets approved in this Parliament of the Republic — there have been seven budgets which have respected the budget treaty. of these seven budgets, four were approved, nothing less, by the PCP, which now presents a draft rejection of the budget treaty, but also by the Left Block and the Greens. Therefore, it is good to know that the party here proposes that Portugal withdraw from the budget treaty is one of the parties that did most in this Parliament to respect the budget treaty. That says everything about the coherence of the PCP proposal! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u140	And several times he hit palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u141	The CFP, which approves the value of the deficit entered in each budget, always in respect of the budgetary treaty and all the restrictive measures which it imposes on it, then on the following day, believes that no one has noticed that it has voted and approved these budgets. [[PCP protests.]] We understand why, now, the matter is the budgetary treaty. It is that you cannot go to the next election campaign with the same subject as you did before. But we still remember what was the great flag of the PCP in public finances and, indeed, of the Left Block in the last election campaign. We don't forget, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! So where's the debt renegotiation? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] You've been supporting a government for four years! After going to an election campaign in which the posters of each and others had as their main aim the renegotiation of public debt, you cannot, four years later, say the same, because for four years they approved Budgets and failed to comply with what they promised the voters. It is good to know that the CFP and the Left Block are now proposing to disengage the budget treaty, but if, over the next four years, they would support the government, nothing would happen at all. Therefore, about this inconsequence it is not worth saying anything more. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But it is worth looking at the position of the Socialist Party, which is a little remix of what Centeno's interventions are in the Portuguese Parliament and what Centeno's interventions are in Brussels or in statements to the Finantial Times. The Socialist Party wants everyone to believe that it does not fall under these European rules, but does everything to comply with them. And that position is a deep hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u142	It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u143	The right position of a State such as Portugal, which should have happened during these four years, was in fact to have that critical view of the rules currently in question in the budgetary treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u144	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u145	I will finish, Mr. President. But on this, the government did nothing more than the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u146	Fez, he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u147	... that had already started a serious process of revising European rules. In four years you have made no progress in this process, because you have always been stuck with these requirements of the CFP and the Left Block, and for Portugal your governance has been lost, in terms of protagonistism, in negotiating European rules. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u148	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Addressing me, above all, to the Members. Members of the CFP, I will tell Mr Paulo Sá that the harsh consequences he has referred to as having been consequences resulting from the budgetary treaty are no more than the harsh consequences resulting from the budgetary policy which you have supported in this Parliament year after year. [[Well, well!]] [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u150	The PCP and the Mrs. Members of the CFP are not good students in Europe, you are professors in Europe. Today, they are professors of this budgetary policy, which follows with Minister Mário Centeno. The Minister for Finance of the Members. Members of the CFP are Minister Mário Centeno, who is also the President of the Eurogroup, the President of the capitalists, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, those whom you reject, those whom you do not believe in. [[PCP protests.]] You cannot, as Mr João Almeida has already said, act in such a way and then defend a rhetoric that does not coincide with what has been the CFP's course in this Parliament. These are the disagreements that the PS then has a great deal of difficulty in resolving with those who support its budgetary policy. Mrs Margarida Marques had to do a belt game here to say: 'We agree, but we do not agree with the budgetary treaty'. But they agree with the budgetary treaty, they agree with Mr President of the Eurogroup's positions. The fate of the PS Parliamentary Group is that, although it defends the second, third and fourth parties, what we desire for European construction, then, on Thursday and Friday, it has to sleep with the enemy, which is absolutely regrettable. The marginal thought here brings us the CFP, which is supported by The Greens and the Left Block, is not only contrary to Portugal's position in European construction, as is contrary to what is said by our representatives — ours, Portugal — in Europe and, in particular, the Minister of Finance at all times. The gentlemen. Members of the PS are lucky to have a very responsible parliamentary group on your left in this Chamber. A parliamentary group that gives clear signals to our European partners and also more than 80 % of the Portuguese population that effectively defends European construction and a budgetary and financial balance that will support fundamental rights. The budgetary and financial responsibility is, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the inalienable assumption of all fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u151	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish, if you please?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u152	I will now finish, Mr President. Mrs Margarida Marques pointed out in the speech that the budget treaty was met by the PS, restocking wages and retiring pensions. Madam Member, you have inherited a circumstance, for the implementation of the budget treaty, which we have built, that the PSD and the CDS-PP have built! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u153	The context in which the PSD and the CDS-PP had to comply with the budget treaty was pre-banking! Is Mrs. Member forgotten? You cannot go to Europe, forgetting with our European partners that you had to fund our budgetary policies because of the differences in the past of the Socialist Party, precisely with the wrong budgetary policies and that you are now calling for and promoting consumption. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u154	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the Portuguese do not want budgetary austerity, fiscal laxism and public finances and the loss of national sovereignty. We don't want one thing or another. I believe that the CFP is consistent with its positions on this proposal. I disagree because Portugal needs, in fact, budgetary rules to avoid budgetary laxism; only it has to apply — and now I am paraphrasing Mrs Margarida Marques — intelligently. It is precisely this non-intelligence... it is to the Socialist Party that I address my fundamental criticisms, because it was the Socialist Party the only party in this House who voted against a draft resolution that I presented in this House. And what did this project accomplish? A very simple thing: that one of the rules of the budget treaty be met and that there is a deficit of less 0, 5 %, i.e. that there is an increase of EUR 1500 million. Well, the PS did not think it was necessary to go beyond what is in the budget treaty. For, my friends, before we revoke the budget treaty, we use it intelligently and apply it intelligently, it would be to approve the draft resolution that I proposed: EUR 1500 million plus, every year, would mean more investment in the National Health Service, more investment in transport, more investment in careers that need qualified frameworks. Well, my socialist friends, you need to know what you want. They cannot want « the sun in the air and the rain in the napal». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would end by saying the following: it is a shame that we have missed an opportunity to give a clear signal to the Government that we need to use all the budgetary strike that the treaty allows. I am very sorry that it has not been approved because of the vote against the Socialist Party, but we are still in time to improve our proposals. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u156	To close the debate, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS interventions clearly showed that three and a half years later these parties are not yet...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u158	Mr. Deputies, for a moment, please. It is that there are many Members standing and talking, so I ask them to sit down and keep quiet to allow this item to be completed on the agenda. [[Pause.]] I think there are already conditions to continue. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, the interventions of PSD and CDS clearly showed that three and a half years later these parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u160	And the honourable Member who is not registered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u161	... have not yet stated that they have been removed from the government, with the decisive contribution of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rules of the budget treaty are not enforceable. in a working group of the Assembly of the Republic to assess the external public indebtedness, created by proposal of the CFP, several personalities defended this very, i.e. that the rules of the budget treaty are not enforceable, and those who defended their compliance had to recognize that this would severely limit the capacity of our country to respond to serious structural problems that afflict it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u162	There have been four budgets approved by you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u163	A former Minister of Economics, PS, heard in this working group, even considered that the convergence rules of the budget treaty are stupid! Yes, sir. PS Deputies, he said they were stupid and not smart! Why, then, does the insistence on keeping Portugal tied to this treaty? Those who defend it, even recognizing the difficulty or even the impossibility of its application, see in it a very useful tool to limit labour and social rights and to impose a neoliberal conception of the organization of society. Yes, that is why they want the budget treaty, to limit labour and social rights. This is a path that the CFP rejects in its entirety. Portugal needs to be freed from these instruments which limit its economic development and social progress. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have been back five years since the entry into force of the budgetary treaty, and the European Commission has proposed to transpose its content, rules and taxes into the legal framework of the European Union. This proposal was rejected by the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, leading to the suspension of the procedure. The reasons for rejecting this transposition should, in consistency, give rise to and lead to the repeal of the budgetary treaty, but that is not the direction which follows this procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u164	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u165	I will now finish, Mr President. The budgetary treaty has not been transposed into the legal system of the European Union, but remains in force for the Member States that have subscribed to it, where Portugal is included.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u166	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u167	to the PS, which voted against the transposition of the budget treaty, it is necessary to clarify its position:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u168	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u169	... if this vote against in the European Parliament was not opportunistic, then it is in agreement with the CFP for the repeal of the budget treaty. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason for such a movement and for such a word outside the scope of the interventions, and for the services to allow the possibility of electronic registration by the honourable Members. Members for the quorum verification. Meanwhile, Secretary Pedro Alves will take note of the initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Bills No. 1193 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity ( tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1194 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( the tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ), which also falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u172	I think we already have the conditions for checking the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 192 presences, to which 8 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Members Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, Isabel Santos, João Paulo Correia and Sonia Fertuzinhos, PS, João Vasconcelos, BE, Cecilia Meireles and Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP, and Antonio Filipe, PCP, which makes 200 Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 805 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Pedro Lourenço, who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u173	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 3, at 87 years old, former Member Antonio Pedro da Silva Lourenço. Pedro Lourenço joined the CDS in 1976, being a treasurer, vice president and president of the Concelhia Political Committee in Lisbon. He was a member of the Assembly of the Republic, by the Lisbon Electoral Circle, in the first three legislatures. With great dedication to the city, he was close to the historic President of the City Hall of Lisbon, Nuno Krus Abeccasis, and later Prof. Adriano Moreira, as President of the CDS. Even after the end of the exercise of partisan positions, he continued to dedicate himself, as a militant, to the public cause. Having remembered his enthusiasm for participation in citizenship and in the public causes that he embraced, his constant presence, over the years and among several generations, made Pedro Lourenço a reference to many. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its public regret over the death of Pedro Lourenço and conveys sincere condolences to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u174	To the family present in the galleries, I also want to express my condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 807 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and signed by PS Members and a Member of the CDS-PP ). — I regret to mention the International Day of Reflection on Genocide in Rwanda. Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u175	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 7 April the International Day of Reflection on Genocide in Rwanda 1994 was signed, the date on which the 100-day massacre against minorities in Rwanda began and estimated to have victimized between 800 000 and 1 000 000 people in most of this ethnic group. Today, 25 years have passed since the start of the crimes. Men, women and children were barbarously killed by forces installed in power, including in schools and churches. For just over three months, thousands of people are estimated to have died daily, this in the late 20th century, in which the United Nations is considered the largest genocide after the end of World War II. This genocide was still marked by strong violence against women, since, over 100 days, it is estimated that half a million women and children were raped, sexually mutilated or murdered. However, we note that since the beginning of the genocide in Rwanda 25 years ago, ethnic differences, racial hatred and xenophobia are rising in various regions of the world. Its worsening ground for a deep reflection on the response to such occurrences, and parliamentary institutions should play an active role in preserving the values on which the concept of democracy is based. The memory of all those who have lost their lives, the future of the defence of human rights, including the right to life and the dignity of the human person, must be respected above all ethnic or racial differences, and democracies must promote the education of younger generations in the observance of the values of freedom and equality. thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls the International Day of Reflection on Genocide in Rwanda, pays tribute to all the victims of this genocide, renewing its commitment not to forget and to, by preserving memory, defend the fundamental values of humanity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the two votes that we have just adopted, we are going to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed with Vote No 806 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the World Autism Awareness Day, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u177	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The awareness of autism has grown significantly throughout the world and, in particular, in our country over the past few years. It was the year 2008 when the United Nations General Assembly unanimously declared April 2 as the World Autism Awareness Day, beginning the commemorations in which several international entities associated themselves with the Light it up Blue movement (light blue or light a blue light), an initiative promoted by the Autism Speaks entity, whose aim is that, a little across the world, be illuminated as many museums, monuments and public buildings as possible, or with relevant value. In Portugal, several municipal chambers, parish councils and other public institutions usually join this initiative. For the United Nations, the rights of persons with disabilities, including persons with autism, as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( CDPD ), are an integral part of their mandate. in these terms, the United Nations has defined that this year's theme to point out this important date would be Assistance Technologies, active participation, aiming to draw attention to the importance of accessible technologies in supporting autists to live independent lives and be able to exercise their basic human rights. In this context, the UN Secretary-General, Eng. Antonio Guterres, stressed that it is necessary to support people with autism in order to achieve their full potential by stating that «it is a vital part of the efforts to maintain the fundamental promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to leave no one behind ». Autism is a chronic and complex disorder of neurodevelopment, very frequent, with great repercussions and with severe behavioral, cognitive, psychological and educational changes. over the past few years, this cause has deserved a growing mobilization of civil society, as evidenced by the various projects and initiatives developed by our communities and which are worthy of our public recognition. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes all the initiatives carried out in our country, which aim to mark the World Day of Awareness of Autism, recognizing and valuing the growing mobilization of civil society around this cause. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 808 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — From praise to the National Selection of Rugby of Sub-20, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u179	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Rugby National Selection of Sub-20 made history, on April 6, by winning, for the third consecutive year, the Rugby Europe U20 Championship and thus ensuring the presence of the World Rugby U20 Trophy that will compete this year in Brazil. After winning the competition in 2017, Romania, and last year in Coimbra, Portugal fought for the second consecutive year the tournament at home and succeeded again. After the successes against the French regional selection of New Aquitaine and the Dutch selection, the XV Luso managed to achieve, in the end, the victory against the favorite Spanish selection, obtaining a remarkable fact of high difficulty, a greater expression of the victory culture demonstrated by the succession of consecutive triumphs of these young players in this tournament. The Assembly of the Republic first welcomes the winning athletes and the winning technical team, but also the Portuguese Federation of Rugby and, through it, the sports clubs and agents involved in preparing athletes, without forgetting the decisive role played by their families, often decisive and insufficiently reflected pillar of these achievements. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its appreciation for the results obtained and approves a vote of praise to the National Selection of Râguebi of Sub-20. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that you have just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the appreciation of Vote No 809 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PSD ) :— Congratulation to workers, managers and civil society of Viana do Castelo on the occasion of the feasibility of the shipyards materialized in a set of civil and military deliveries. The PSD request, we will open a 2-minute discussion time for each parliamentary group to intervene on this vote. You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Matos Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Among the disasters of the legacy of the former governance of the Socialist Party, there was also the situation of the Naval Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo. The vote presented by the PSD today very briefly summarizes the situation in June 2011. EMPORDEF ( Portuguese Defense Company ) had no president, the Viana do Castelo Shipyards had no president, their liability was EUR 250 million, their own negative capital was over EUR 100 million... — and could continue. Since the beginning, the former Government has assumed the fundamental need to safeguard the shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo. The current management—now, then, management in the Defence Commission which I then chaired—has done everything to prevent a solution to this difficult situation in the Shipyards, to the point of proposing the authoritative constitution of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, on whose grounds are linked to 'pears' of this content: 'The process of sub-concession of the Shipyards of Viana do Castelo is an example of the abdication of national interests. (...) The ‘solution’ imposed by the government, the termination of the company, the dismissal of all workers and the granting of land and facilities to a company that does not provide guarantees for the maintenance of labor and jobs and the continuity of shipbuilding(...)’. As you can see, there was a solution. And this solution was, in the midst of great difficulties, found by the previous Government, and it must be a special word of thanks to former Minister José Pedro Aguiar Branco for the way he handled this case. last week, Mr. Prime Minister was, and quite well, at the opening ceremony of the ship built at the Naval Stalliers of Viana do Castelo or, better said, in the new company. We already know that Mr. Prime Minister has difficulty apologizing. He did not ask them about the fires and did not ask them about the so-called "familygate". He could have taken the opportunity to thank the former Government for what he did in our Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. Even to conclude, I will say that this vote is therefore of congratulations to all those — workers, managers and population of Viana do Castelo — who contributed to this result, but it is also implicitly censorship to those who have done everything so that the problem will not be solved at the right time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u182	Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot fail to express its satisfaction with the work that has been developed by West Sea in the former naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. Do it, because the company has worked well, because the workers have worked well and because the government has also helped get the company to work well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The company and the Portuguese State have recently been confronted with a process in the European Commission because of the way in which the previous Government awarded the last two ships that were built there for the Portuguese Navy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This process was filed. And why was it filed? It was filed because the Portuguese Government defended the national interest and argued that the Navy needs those ships built in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This satisfaction, Mr President, contrasts with the way in which the former Government settled the shipyards of Viana do Castelo. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]] One thing is the work that the company there is now doing, another thing is the way the previous government liquidated, threw into the trash, along with more than 400 million euros, the previous yards that existed there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Matos Correia must know that this vote is a great process of bleaching this action from the previous Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Emídio Guerreiro.]] Mr President, when a company has difficulties, what it needs to do is solve these difficulties, solve its problems, not send the company and EUR 450 million to waste, as did the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u185	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is EUR 450 million from the Portuguese taxpayers, who arise following an open procedure in the European Commission against the Portuguese State, for unlawful aid, following a complaint. A complaint made by whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u186	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u187	by Minister José Pedro Aguiar Branco and by the former Government, who made a complaint against the Portuguese State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u188	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the vote presented here by the PSD does not mean more than whitening what the previous government, the PSD and the CDS did in relation to the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u190	All right! [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u191	They destroyed a reference company in the field of ship repair and construction... [[PSD protests.]] ...and condemned to misery, for a long time, hundreds of workers, hundreds of families from all over that region. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a short memory. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to hear the speaker with the same respect you have heard. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. The gentlemen. Members are upset, but they forget that in 2012 the former Defence Minister José Pedro Aguiar Branco cancelled an order of about 10 ships,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u194	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u195	...which represented a cashier of more than 500 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u196	To put the company down! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u197	Next, they handed this company over to a private group and made a direct adjustment for EUR 77 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u198	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u199	Is that where it was? Oh, my God! It did not serve for a state-owned company, but it already served for a company handed over to a private group! This is the real reason for the policy of the previous government, PSD / CDS. We must not forget. Recently, complaints of high corruption have come to the public in the shipyards of Viana do Castelo and that, in the EMPORDEF (Portuguese Defense Company), accounts of the Estaleiros have been falsified, imagine! Who gave that order? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The idea was that "these companies give negative balances, so we have to privatize! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]] We must not forget that the Left Block has submitted a request to hear the former Minister of Defence. But what did the PSD, CDS and even PS do? Oh, my God! They dropped that request. Run away from these auditions as the Devil flees from the cross. Who's afraid of the truth, after all? Let's see how PSD, CDS and PS will vote on the proposal presented here by the Left Block to be made a forensic audit to the accounts of the Viana Shipkeepers of the Castle and the EMPORDEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u200	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be here to see what your position in that vote is going to be. Let's see who's afraid of the truth! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u202	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party votes against this vote presented by the PSD... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u204	...and we have no doubt in saying that this vote is a shame. [[PSD protests.]] It is a shame, because the PSD, the CDS and also the PS did everything to destroy the public company Estaleiros Naval de Viana do Castelo. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Boycott, cancellation of orders, obstacles and more obstacles, when it was a public enterprise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u205	You don't know what they're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u206	Everything to give the company to private. And once I deliver to the private, what's the behavior? There is no lack of public money to promote private businesses, no lack of orders, no lack of facilities! What we have in the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo is a shameful process, of national shame, of destruction of a public enterprise to promote private businesses. [[PCP applause.]] There we will be to listen and to conclude politically, after the Public Prosecutor's Office to do all the investigations that are under way. We'll be here to do that analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u207	You're gonna have to swallow a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u208	We have no doubt that 600 jobs have been destroyed in this process. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have no problem with saying, and we want to reaffirm it, that there is no miracle of the private initiative. It is not this company, built on hammer, of an economic group, that can build ships! [[All right!]] [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u209	It was not her who promoted the miraculous construction in Viana do Castelo. Don't! Who knows how to build ships, who always knew how to build ships and learned with decades of work are the workers of the shipyards of Viana do Castelo. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What we have here is a company created on purpose hammer to take advantage of skills, knowledge and decades of experience that workers have. And these ships that are being built could and should be built under the aegis of a public company. So, yes, we would be defending the national interest, not with this shameful vote presented by the PSD. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u210	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP parliamentary group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard here the Socialist Party say that it welcomes West Sea and the workers who make today the city of Viana do Castelo on the world map of building ships. Facts are facts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. If it is a pleasure to hear the Socialist Party say that it welcomes this fact, it is also a fact that it would not be possible for the Socialist Party to welcome this reality if it was supported by this majority in 2014 or 2015, by the Left Block and the Communist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] These are the facts that cannot be bleached: this is a company that has 1370 workers today, a company that is building ships all over the world, recognized by everyone as a company of merit, prestige and trust, which neither the words of the CFP can shake. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members spoke here in the whitening of history, I do not know whether because of the name of the previous Minister, but I would say more: surely, Viana do Castelo and the Estaleiros would not have given to the coast with this Prime Minister, because this Prime Minister and this left-wing management, in the name of the blind ideology, in the name of prejudice,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... reject what are options of future, efficiency, that create jobs and wealth in a region and that are fundamental to the future of our country and to the region of Viana do Castelo. So what we're discussing here is much more than the Estaleiros, it's a vision for the country, it's a vision for the future. We know that, as it has not been in the past, this majority should not be in the future either, because it generates poverty, generates unemployment,... [[Protests by PS Member Pedro Delgado Alves and PCP Member Rita Rat.]] ... leads companies to destruction and does not bring future to the country or to Viana do Castelo. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u212	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 809 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Congratulations to the workers, managers and civil society of Viana do Castelo on the occasion of the viability of the Estaleiros, materialized in a set of civil and military deliveries. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u214	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u215	Mr President, it is only to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are all very excited, but you don't understand very well why! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u217	I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of vote No 810 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and signed by PS Members and a Member of the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and concern for the imposition of the death penalty for homosexuality in Brunei.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Since last April 3rd, Brunei sultanate has decided to implement phases 2 and 3 of its 2014 Penal Code, based on xaria, aggravating the penalties applicable to certain types of crimes. Thus, he began to punish homosexual relations with the death penalty for stoning. In addition to this draconian measure, the most recent amendments to the Brunei Penal Code provide for, for example, the death penalty for stoning and corporal punishment for adultery, apostasy and defamation against the prophet Muhammad, and still amputation of the hand or foot for theft or theft. New laws apply to all persons in Brunei, regardless of nationality or religion. Hassanal Bolkiah, Brunei's absolutist sultan since 1967 and responsible for these heinous and macabre laws, is one of the richest men in the world, owner of nine hotels, including two in the United Kingdom, two in the United States, two in Paris and one in Milan. With a personal fortune around $20 billion, he described the implementation of the new Penal Code as ‘ a great conquest. ’ Unhuman decisions like these, which can only be classified as civilizational retrocessions, violate all principles inherent in human rights. For this reason, the international community must condemn the promulgation of these barbaric and similar laws taken from positions which unfortunately still tend to multiply a little across the world. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses great concern at the civilizational setback that represents recent amendments to the Brunei Criminal Code and condemns the application of new penalties, including the decision to introduce the death penalty for stoning and corporal punishment for homosexuality, adultery, apostasy and blasphemy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u219	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 1568/ XIII/3. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of the effectiveness and re-evaluation of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of this initiative. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were adopted, votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP.]] We will vote on the Resolution Project No 1950 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government suspend the effectiveness of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 1093 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, including on the list of essential public services or passenger transport service. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in voting time, so I ask you to sit or leave the Chamber. It starts to be a little too much. [[Pause.]] Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 1093 / XIII / 4. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No 1952 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — by defence, qualification and promotion of the public inland waterway transport service in Transtejo and Soflusa companies. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1953 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the signing of a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflusa and the approval of a multi-annual investment plan 2019 - 2022. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1957 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of a public service of quality and efficient in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1959 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the improvement of the public transport service carried out by Transtejo / Soflusa. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u221	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u222	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u223	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u224	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Emídio Guerreiro also asked for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u226	Yes, Mr President, to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the general vote of draft resolution No 1522 / XIII / 3 is followed. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of the Barcelinhos Secondary School. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 6 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the abstention of PS.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We now vote in general on Resolution No 1534 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelos Secondary School. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 6 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the abstention of PS.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u228	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u229	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u230	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the draft resolutions on the Barcelinhos Secondary School.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u231	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 1176 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Clarifies the provisions of Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July in respect of restrictions on institutional advertising by public entities in the electoral period. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of the PS.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2052 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to effectively encourage the establishment of integrated responsibility centres. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2049 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the Portugal decoupling procedure of the budgetary treaty. [[Subject to the vote, PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, PCP and Os Verdes were rejected.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1346 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — In defence of small rent-a-car and transfer companies carrying out their activity at Faro Airport, for which the vote of points 1 and 2 were requested separately from point 3. Let us therefore begin by voting on points 1 and 2 of this motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1328 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to a set of actions aimed at depolating the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, located in the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1360 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the intensification of pollutant discharge monitoring and surveillance actions and the implementation of an action plan for cleaning the Ul, Antuã and Caima rivers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1378/ XIII/3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the depollution of the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, as well as for the rehabilitation of its entrants. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1393 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( The Greens) — Urgent implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the rivers Antuã, Ul, Insua and Caima. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1025 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take effective measures to solve the environmental problems caused by industrial activity in Paio Pires village, Seixal municipality. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2041 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Development of epidemiological and environmental study to evaluate the effects of the labor of the National Siderurgia in Paio Pires village, municipality of Seixal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2060 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government prepare an epidemiological and / or environmental study to assess the effects of economic activities, including industrial activities, as well as environmental liabilities in Paio Pires village, Seixal municipality. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PCP abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 2072 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare an epidemiological study to assess the effects of industrial activity on the health of the village of Paio Pires and the adoption of measures to improve national air quality. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 2074 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government reassess the environmental licence of the National Steel, undertake an epidemiological study, strengthen environmental monitoring and take effective measures to ensure air quality in Paio Pires. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 2083 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an epidemiological and environmental study to assess the effects of industrial activities in the village of Paio Pires, in the municipality of Seixal, as well as the environmental impacts there. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u232	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u233	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u234	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last six initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u235	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u236	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 2068 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape integrated into the National Network of Protected Areas. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u238	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u239	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u240	Mr President, it is in order to announce to the House that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u241	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have for the vote two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Constitutional Affairs Committee, rights, freedoms and guarantees. I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to take note of the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u242	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juízo Central Cible - Juiz 17, Case No. 292222 / 16.0T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Miguel Coelho ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u243	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to take note of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u244	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Local Criminal Court of Vila Nova de Gaia - Juiz 2, Case No 7187 / 16.9T9VNG, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Paulo Correia ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-12.u245	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall announce the agenda for the next plenary session, drawing your attention to the fact that it will take place on Tuesday, 16 April, beginning at 15 p.m. First, we will generally discuss the following Bills: No 1147 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, creating restrictions on the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment in domestic violence cases and raising the criminal frame of this crime; paragraph 1148 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventing the refusal of testimony by the victim of domestic violence and prohibiting the provisional suspension of proceedings for domestic violence; paragraph 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution; paragraph 1150 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), ensuring compulsory training for judges in domestic violence, No 1151 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims, No 1111/ XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of persecution, allowing the application of the preventive measure to prohibit contact with the victim; paragraph 1113 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Determines greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence crimes; No 1152 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen legal mechanisms for the protection of victims of violence; No 1155 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recasts crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code under the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measure to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and prosecution ( stalking ) ; No 1165 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the area of gender equality and domestic violence ( third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ) ; No 1166 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threat and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ) ; No 1178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of the public crime of the crime of persecution, verified certain aggravating circumstances, as well as the possibility of the application of preventive measures ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Penal Code and the thirty-first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; a ( PCP ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the imposition of conduct or for the prohibition of contact where there is strong evidence of the practice of criminal prosecution ( makes the thirty-ninth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) ; points 1105 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — It enables the application of the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution ( the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; and paragraph 1183 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects children who witness crimes of domestic violence and makes it compulsory to collect statements for future memory during the investigation ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of their victims ). of the second point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 2045 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote reciprocal protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom and of British citizens in Portugal within the framework of the future bilateral relationship. in the third point, the Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the system of investment companies and real estate management shall be assessed[ Parliamentary assessments No 120 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 122 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). Fourthly, we will appreciate the Resolution Project No 2039 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency climate change fund. of the fifth and last point is the general discussion of the Bill No. 944 / XIII / 3. a ( Citizens) — Full consideration of the teaching service time provided during the accounting suspensions prior to 2018, for the purposes of progression and remunerative valuation, together with Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, which mitigates the effects of the freezing occurred between 2011 and 2017 in the teaching career[ Parliamentary Assessments No 127 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 126 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived at the end of our session. Thank you very much for your participation. Good weekend and till Tuesday. [[It was 12 hours and 50 minutes.]]
