ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the first item on our agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will provide some information to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by reading the Report and Opinion No 2 of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Members elected, which is of the following content: [[‘At 30 days of October 2019, for 9 hours and 15 minutes, in Conference Room 7 of the Palace of Saint Benedict, the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members, where the following appointments of mandates and replacements of Members were observed, taking into account the applicable legal provisions and requests for replacements submitted:]] ( a) Article 20. point (a) of paragraph 1 of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 26 October, including. Socialist Party : Electoral Circle of Aveiro - Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos replaced by Bruno Armando Aragão Henriques ; Braga electoral circle - José Fernando Gomes Mendes replaced by Ana Maria Ribeiro da Silva ; Electoral Circle of White Castle - Eurico Jorge Nogueira Milk Brilliant Days replaced by Joana Morgadinho Bento ; Electoral circle of Coimbra - Marta Alexandra Fartura Braga Feared of Almeida Simões replaced by João Eduardo Dias Madeira Gouveia ; Electoral Circle of Faro - Jamila Bárbara Madeira and Madeira replaced by Ana Lúcia Silva de Passos ; José Apolinário Nunes Portada replaced by Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira ; Jorge Manuel do Nascimento Bottle replaced by Célia Maria Marques da Rosa Paz ; Fora da Europa electoral circle - Augusto Ernesto Santos Silva replaced by Paulo Porto Fernandes ; Electoral Circle Guard - Ana Manuel Jerome Lopes Correia Mendes Godinho replaced by Cristina Maria Figueiredo Almeida de Sousa ; Electoral Circle of Leiria - António Lacerda Sales replaced by Sara Maria Belo Velez ; Electoral circle of Lisboa - António Luís Santos da Costa replaced by Rita Mafalda Nobre Borges Madeira, due to the temporary impediment of Miguel Filipe Pardal Cabrita ; Mariana Guimarães Vieira da Silva replaced by Diogo Feijó Campos Rodrigues ; Mário José Gomes de Freitas Centeno replaced by João Miguel Macarico Nicolau ; Graça Maria da Fonseca Caetano Gonçalves replaced by Alexandra Nunes Esteves Tavares de Moura ; João Titternigton Gomes Cravinho replaced by Fernando José dos Santos Anastácio ; Susana de Fátima Carvalho Amador replaced by Fernando Paulo Ferreira ; Maria de Fátima de Jesus Fonseca replaced by Vera Lucia Raimundo Braz dos Santos ; Ana Sofia Pedroso Lopeso Antunes replaced by Paulo Jorge Duarte Marques ; Electoral Circle of Porto - João Pedro Soeiro Matos Fernandes replaced by Carlos Alberto Silva Brás ; João Veloso da Silva Torres replaced by Nuno Miguel Ribeiro Coelho ; Electoral circle of Santarém - Alexandra Ludomila Ribeiro Fernandes Leitão replaced by Manuel António dos Santos Afonso ; Maria do Céu de Oliveira Antunes Albuquerque replaced by Maria Lúcia Lagriminha Coelho ; Setúbal electoral circle - Eduardo Armenio do Nascimento Cabrite replaced by Ana Sofia Ferreira Araújo ; João Saldanha de Azevedo Galamba replaced by Fernando Miguel Catarino José ; Ricardo Emanuel Martins Mourinho Félix replaced by Clarisse Maria Gaudino Veredas Campos ; Electoral circle of Viana do Castelo — Tiago Brandão Rodrigues replaced by José Manuel Vaz Carpinteira ; Viseu electoral circle - João Paulo de Loureiro Rebelo replaced by Maria da Graça Mouta Silva Reis. ( b) Article 6. point (c) of paragraph 1 of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 26 October, including. Socialist Party : Electoral circle of Coimbra - João Albino Raino Ataíde das Neves assumes the mandate, ending Raquel de Fatima Cardoso Ferreira ; Electoral circle of Évora - Luís Manuel Capoulas dos Santos assumes the mandate, ending Katia Alexandra Sousa Silva ; Electoral circle of Porto - Ana Paula Mendes Vitorino assumes the mandate, ending Nuno Miguel Ribeiro Coelho ; José Luís Pereira Carneiro assumes the mandate, ending José Carlos Ribeiro Barbosa ; Maria Isabel Solnado Porto Oneto assumes the mandate, ending Isabel Sofia Alves Andrade. (c) Article 7. the Statute of the Deputies, beginning on 30 October, including: Communist Party English ( PCP ) — Francisco José de Almeida Lopes ( Setúbal electoral circle ) replaced by Bruno Ramos Dias. The Commission unanimously agreed to accept all substitutions in accordance with the documents submitted. Having examined the facts available, the Commission was of the opinion that the powers of the so-called substitutes should also be judged as being verified and thus legitimised for the substitutions in question. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. It may continue with the reading of the upper part of the elections held on the day of the first plenary session. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the minutes relating to the election of Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic shall be as follows: « At the twenty-five days of October of two thousand and nine, the election of the Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and Vice-Secretarys of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic for the XIV legislature was held, and the following results were obtained: Voters — 229 Vice-Presidents Edited by Fatima Santos Marreiros Estrela Votes 'yes' — 177 White votes — 48 No votes — 4 Fernando Mimoso Negrão Votes 'yes' — 165 White votes — 60 No votes — 4 José Manuel Marques da Silva Pureza Votes 'yes' — 172 White votes — 53 No votes — 4 Antonio Filipe Gaião Rodrigues Votes 'yes' — 170 White votes — 55 No votes — 4 Secretaries Maria da Luz Gameiro Beja Ferreira Rosinha Votes 'yes' — 181 White votes — 45 No votes — 3 Duarte Rogério Matos Ventura Pacheco Votes 'yes' — 181 White votes — 45 No votes — 3 Nelson Ricardo Esteves Peralta Votes 'yes' — 157 White votes — 69 No votes — 3 Ana Cristina Cardoso Dias Mesquita Votes 'yes' — 160 White votes — 66 No votes — 3 Vice-Secretarys Diogo Feijóo León Campos Rodrigues Votes 'yes' — 186 White votes — 40 No votes — 3 Ana Sofia Ferreira Araújo Votes "yes" — 176 White Votes — 50 No votes— 3 Helga Alexandra Freire Correia Votes 'yes' — 165 White votes — 61 No votes — 3 Lina Maria Cardoso Lopes Votes 'yes' — 151 White votes — 75 No votes — 3 As a rule, they were elected as Vice-Presidents. Mr Editi Estrela, Mr Fernando Negrão, Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr António Filipe ; Deputies Maria da Luz Rosinha, Duarte Pacheco, Nelson Peralta and Ana Mesquita ; and, for Vice-Secretarys, the Sr. Deputies Diogo León, Sofia Araújo, Helga Correia and Lina Lopes. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The voting officers : Duarte Pacheco — Sofia Araújo. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now proceed to the reading of the minutes concerning the election of members to the Management Board of the Assembly of the Republic for the 14th Parliament: « At the twenty-five days of October of two thousand and nine, the members were elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, and the following results were achieved: Voters — 226 Candidates proposed — List A Actual: Eurídice Maria de Sousa Pereira ( PS ) José Maria Lopes Silvano ( PSD ) Isabel Cristina Rua Pires ( BE ) Duarte Le Falher de Campos Alves ( PCP ) João Rodrigo Pinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) André Lourenço and Silva ( PAN ) Mariana da Conceição Pereira da Silva ( PEV ) Pedro Nuno Raposo Prazeres do Carmo ( PS ) Hugo Miguel de Sousa Carneiro ( PSD ) Nelson Ricardo Esteves Peralta ( BE ) João Manuel Ildefonso Dias ( PCP ) Ana Rita Barreira Duarte Bessa ( CDS-PP ) Maria Cristina Pacheco Rodrigues ( PAN ) José Luís Teixeira Ferreira ( PEV ) Votes 'yes' — 209 White votes — 14 No votes — 6 In accordance with the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are declared elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The voting officers : Duarte Pacheco — Sofia Araújo. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I take this time to congratulate the candidates who have been elected, and some of them are here at the Bureau, and also all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were elected to the various positions now announced by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I also want to greet all those who are here today for the first time, Members and Members, in place of others who come out, and wish them the best wishes of success and good work. Now, yes, we will enter the first item on our agenda, which is from the presentation by the Prime Minister of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme. For an intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: On the first occasion when I address the Assembly of the Republic in this new mandate, I would like to begin by congratulating all the elected Members, wishing the greatest happiness in the exercise of the mandate now being initiated. I do so not only because of institutional courtesy but because I welcome the citizens who represent and because I am well aware that in our constitutional system it is before Parliament — and only before Parliament — that the government is politically responsible. Here I renew my congratulations to the re-elected President of the Assembly of the Republic, with hopes of continuing success in the performance of these functions, expressing here the commitment of full respect, absolute loyalty and full availability for the free, plural and systematic scrutiny of government activity by the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is obviously a government of continuity of change that we started in 2015. Therefore, no one expects, or fears, setbacks in the progress that we have already achieved; therefore, no one has the expectation, or theme, that we will now stand by; therefore, no one imagines, or mistrusts, that we will change the path of our path. This government is right here to ensure that we continue to move forward. We want to continue with confidence the course that we started in 2015, opening the way when it narrows, overcoming obstacles when they arise, but always keeping the path we have drawn, with firm and safe steps, to go further on the path that we started and without ever taking a step larger than the leg. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Government will continue to ensure the responsible balance between improved income and the confidence it promotes investment; the recovery of public services and the reduction of our public debt; the reduction of inequalities and certain accounts; internal cohesion and external competitiveness; and the defence of national interest and the deepening of the European project. We know that the more we move forward, the more demanding the walk becomes. The level of ambition is now, of course, higher and, therefore, the challenge will be even greater. We know that it is not enough for us and that, as we commit ourselves to the Portuguese, we must now do even more and better — even more growth, even better employment, even greater equality, and always with certain accounts. But we also know, as we have known four years ago, that we are in a position to comply with what we commit ourselves to the Portuguese. That is why we stand here with complete confidence, and can assert that we have accomplished over the last four years and we will again meet again in the next four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The programme of the XXII Constitutional Government essentially corresponds to the programme with which the Socialist Party took part in the elections. This is, of course, the result of respect for popular will, without prejudice to the amendments we have introduced as a sign of the compromise attitude we will adopt throughout this Parliament. From this point of view too, the Government has a line of continuity with the political solution of the past four years, and I can see that this Government's commitment to this political process continues exactly the same. Thus it will be, without any discrimination, with all the parties on the left, and also with the NAP, who want to collaborate with us to ensure stability and continue to improve the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we know, the Government's programme is structured around four major strategic challenges: climate change, population sustainability, digital transition and combating inequalities. During this debate, in the afternoon, the Minister for Environment and Climate Action, the Minister of State and the Presidency and the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition will develop our programme around these strategic objectives. But in order to overcome these challenges, concrete measures are needed to effectively improve the lives of citizens and of real impact on families' daily lives: to live in a decent home and at affordable costs; to have a stable and well-remunerated job; to find a daycare or a quality school for children and to be able to continue studies in higher education, if they so wish; to use public transport with convenience and at reasonable prices; and to have access to good health care. Housing is obviously the basis of the construction of family life. It was essential that we relaunched, in the previous legislature, a new generation of public housing policies, which culminated in the approval in this Assembly of the first Housing Bases Act. Now, it is important to develop this law and implement the policy measures we have defined. We know that goals are ambitious. We have the firm intention to celebrate the 50 years of April 25 in 2024, having eradicated the lack of condigna housing that still affects 26 000 families in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But also the middle class and especially the new generations face serious difficulties, being forced to spend a considerable part of their family budget on housing-related charges. We have therefore launched the Accessible Rent Programme, so that it is possible to rent a suitable house, with an effort rate compatible with the income of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to promote a balanced, affordable and secure lease market for all, it is also necessary to increase public housing supply, on the municipal or state initiative, in particular from the value of its own under-utilised heritage. We therefore want to make available a public offer for affordable rent by the State of more than 10 000 housing units until the end of the legislature. The last four years have been marked by a historical reduction in unemployment, and important progress has also been made, particularly in the public sector, in reducing precariousness. But there is a need for determined action, in the area of supervision, to put an end to the files and abuses that call into question the dignity of work. We have, above all, two fundamental challenges to meet: ensuring the overall improvement of wages and a better reconciliation of personal, family and professional life. We therefore look forward to the early conclusion of what has already been agreed in social conciliation and a positive response by the partners to the call to conclude a general income policy agreement which provides for a general increase in wages under the Growth Pact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not enough to look at the national minimum wage; it is necessary to continue a fair evolution of all wages. And I would particularly like to stress the importance of social consultation to agree a reference value for collective bargaining so that we can achieve a remuneration for qualified young people corresponding to their level of training. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is urgent that we collectively assume that we must assure young Portuguese people that they must continue to invest in their qualification and that it is here in Portugal that they can be fully carried out, from a personal and professional point of view. Without this guarantee, Portugal will run the risk of losing the enormous effort that families and educational institutions have made to have the most qualified generation that Portugal could ever have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government Programme envisages two far-reaching measures aimed at supporting families so that they can effectively have the freedom to have children they really want. On the one hand, we will gradually increase tax deductions in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) depending on the number of children. On the other hand, we will create the complement-creche to support families from the second child. One of the most important indicators of progress of the last legislature — and will be reflected by generations — is the reduction of early school dropout by 13, 7 % in 2015 to 10, 8 % in the first half of this year, thus bringing us closer to the European Union average. In fact, I believe that we are in a position to achieve this school year. We must continue this effort. Therefore, we will launch an early detection system for literacy and numeracy problems in preschool, and we will strengthen the National School Success Promotion Program, defining an integrated action on mathematics learning, which, as we know, is one of the greatest causes of failure and early school dropout. In higher education, over the past four years, we have seen a marked increase of 21% in the number of students enrolled. We have risen from 40 % to 50 % the rate of 20-year-olds attending higher education, which is a strong impetus for us to reach in advance the 60 % target that the European Union set for 2030 alone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can now announce that, as soon as next week, we will again sign a new trust agreement with all universities and politicians, which has already been agreed, to guarantee these institutions a stable horizon of funding for the entire legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u8	And here again I would like to remind you of the commitment already made to adding 12 000 new beds in student homes to the existing 15 000, which is essential for no one to stop studying in higher education because of economic deficits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The tariff reduction provided by the new social passes well demonstrates the importance and advantages of decentralisation and had a significant expression in increasing the income available to families, in addition to facilitating their mobility, and very important to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. We are now better aware of the priority we have set since the first day of the previous Parliament for investment in public transport. The importance of the procurement competitions launched in the previous legislature is now better realized and will make it possible to strengthen, in this legislature, significantly, the supply of public transport — 10 new ships for the Transtejo, 700 new buses, 14 new compositions for the metro of Lisbon, 18 new compositions for the metro of Porto, 22 new trains for the CP (trains of Portugal ) and 20 new trains... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u9	Now it's going to rain trains in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u10	You have to pay, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u11	Do these trains have engines? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u12	Finally, I see you realize that to harvest it is necessary first to sow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u13	Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u14	For the satisfaction of all Portuguese — and also, in the light of the facts, of all the honourable Members. Members — to these 20 new trains for the CP, we can add 20 trains which have been stopped for many years and which, thanks to the recovery plan of the rolling stock, will return to operation and circulation in the lanes. We've got, again, the country in the lanes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] I would like to thank you for stressing the importance of what I am saying. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u15	Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u16	The more they react, the more citizens realize the importance of the change we are being able to make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The legislation that now begins will inevitably be marked by the development of the potentials opened by the new Health Bases Act, but it is very important that this legislative work does not distract us or blur us from the essential, which is the improvement of health care provided to citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u17	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u18	Priority continues to be the development of primary health care. In addition to the 103 new family health units created in the previous legislation, more than 20 family health units will also be in operation until December 31 of this year, implementing the objective that we have proposed to generalize this model throughout this Legislation. [[PSD protests.]] In the development of the National Health Service network, the new hospitals will also have an essential role: the Hospital de Lisboa Oriental, the Hospital Central do Alentejo, the hospitals of Sintra and Seixal, whose conclusion is estimated at the end of 2023,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u19	It's only in 2023 now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u20	...and to whom I hope you can join the new Funchal hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u21	You have to pay, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u22	Even now the debate has begun and they are already beginning!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u24	Mr. President, I will continue. in the same way, we phase out moderate rates in primary health care and in all health care prescribed in units of the National Health Service or in the Health Line 24. And we will also bet on strengthening oral health, extending the dental check to all children right from 2 years old; visual health, through a valley of glasses for children and young people up to 18 years old and for more than 65 years old beneficiaries of social income of insertion; and mental health, through community mental health teams. in these various areas which make the difference in the day-to-day lives of citizens, it is possible and it is necessary to do even more and better. To that end, we need strong, agile and effective institutions. We therefore include in our Government Programme a set of good governance goals that go beyond certain accounts through investment in public services, the enhancement of sovereignty functions and the improvement of the quality of our democracy. We will continue to modernize the state and qualify our Public Administration, always putting the focus on service to the citizen. This is a priority of the current government, in fact, with a clear expression in its organics. We want to value, train and rejuvenate the public service, with the soon entry of 1000 new superior technicians and an attractive but responsible wage policy. We will continue with the administrative simplification agenda. So, and as an example, we will harmonise the biometric data collected for the issue of the citizenship card and passport, exempting citizens from double collection and relieving the services of duplicate work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not a breach or a mythical "structural reforms" of the State that the country needs, but a continuous effort to improve the quality of services provided to citizens and anywhere in its territory. We must therefore make a strong investment in territorial cohesion. Here too, the challenge is great. over decades, it has accentuated the cleavage between the coast and the interior, the contrast between cities and areas of low density or even the divergence between urban centers and their peripheries. This will be a clear design of this government, which is also evident in its organic. Similarly, we will work to increase citizens' confidence in their institutions. In the previous legislation, we have already adopted a wide range of measures to prevent and combat corruption, from the new Public Contracts Code to the strengthening of the Judicial Police from an organic, technical and human point of view. The Government's programme takes this fight even further, proposing, inter alia, ancillary penalties which double the period of inhibition for the exercise of public office and which allow for the decree of the lack of suitability of managers and administrators of companies who have been convicted of the practice of corruption crimes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the latest legislation has proved that it is possible to have a virtuous circle between the growth of the economy and the improvement of the living conditions of the citizens. The programme presented here requires even a stronger ambition for economic growth. I have insisted, and I want to repeat here, that we are not just growing above the European average, we need to grow more and at least have a decade of continued convergence with the European Union. hence the invitation to move towards a true pact for growth, with more investment, better knowledge and greater income within the Economic and Social Council. The new development model that has enabled us to grow, increase exports and gain market shares, creating more and better jobs, is a model that is based on knowledge, which generates greater added value and not on the exploitation of low wages; it is a model that stimulates initiative, supports entrepreneurship and encourages investment; it is a model that does not rely on auctioning the undifferentiated reduction of taxes, but concentrates our capacity for tax spending on support for innovation, the creation of qualified employment and the strengthening of territorial cohesion; it is a model in which the State promotes public policies and supports mobilising projects, invests in opening markets and creating infrastructures that support the internationalisation of our economy. This virtuous cycle has settled in the restoration of internal trust and has also settled in the restoration of external credibility, because of the replacement of constitutional normality, political stability, the recovery of income and the sustained sanitation of our public finances, with the lowest deficit of democracy and the enhanced confidence in our capacity to pay public debt. We cannot break this balance now. And it is worth remembering: sound public finances and sustainable economic growth are not merely statistical results, which actually enables us to save EUR 2000 million per year at the cost of debt so that we can increase the investment in the National Health Service by EUR 2000 million per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what enables us, for the first time in our history, to go next year for the third consecutive year of annual updating of retirement pensions, due to an economic growth above 2 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if in the previous legislation we were able to turn the page of austerity, in this legislation we must together write a new page of prosperity. We know that it is possible and that we have a Government Programme with a roadmap to achieve it: a roadmap to end precariousness and increase the income available to families; a roadmap to modernize the state and deliver better public services; a roadmap to combat corruption and increase confidence in institutions; a roadmap to curb climate change and build a more sustainable future; a roadmap to support the interior and promote greater territorial cohesion; a roadmap to protect forest and stimulate rural development; a roadmap to increase birth rates and attract more people to our country; a roadmap to further reduce early school dropout and take advantage of the opportunities of digital society; a roadmap to combat inequalities and eradicate poverty; a roadmap to reduce the burden of public debt in gross domestic product and continue to converge with the European Union. In short, it is a script to continue the change we started in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will rule with humility but with ambition, knowing that the challenges are many but also with the confidence of overcoming — trust based on the experience of the last four years of governance; trust based on the consistency of a strategy that we have defined in an Agenda for the Decade, in the coherence with which we have seen it continuing and in the determination and rigour with which we plan and implement each step; and trust, above all, in the resources of Portugal, in the capacity of the Portuguese and in our collective will to join in our common commitment, which is the future of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u25	Mr Prime Minister, I am grateful for the words you have addressed to the President and Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently forgotten to put the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Members elected to the vote. So let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now following the stage of requests for clarification. To this end, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to which I wish to congratulate after so many years of absence in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u26	Mr President, I also welcome you after 18 years of absence from this House. Mr. Prime Minister, who also fulfills my first question is about the composition of his government. Mr. Prime Minister has the largest government in the history of Portugal. After that controversy about the possibility that we might need a carpenter to solve Mr. André Ventura's problem, we almost needed a carpenter to adjust the government's bench, so many people are there. [[PSD applause.]] Your government costs more money and it's worse. I believe that this enlargement of the government costs more than EUR 50 million to taxpayers and will certainly have joint problems. Mr. Prime Minister announced many routes, but perhaps he almost needed a roadmap for government management, so many people will have to manage. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] There will be more people in the Socialist Party sitting because there are more places to distribute, but it has the biggest and most expensive government in the whole history of Portugal. For territorial cohesion only, it has a State Secretariat for Regional Development, a State Secretariat for the Valorization of the Interior, a State Secretariat for Agriculture and Rural Development and a State Secretariat for the Conservation of Nature, Forests and Land Planning. If you don't have a script, all of these State Secretaries will have a lot of difficulty knowing exactly where they should act, regardless of the actions of others. [[PSD applause.]] We have seen a government with a Secretary of State for Culture, we have seen a government with a Minister for Culture, we have seen a government with a Minister for Culture and a Secretary of State for Culture and now we have a government with a Minister for Culture and two Secretaries of State. Therefore, ministers are multiplied and state secretaries are multiplied within the framework of ministers. It is necessary to go to the time of Vasco Gonçalves, IV Interim Government, to find a government with 62 elements. And you have a government with 70 elements! Mr. Prime Minister can make the government you want — with 40, with 50, with 70 or 80 elements — but remains with a national record that I would never have, which is the national record of having the largest and most expensive government in the whole of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u27	The best government in Portugal had 62 members!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u28	Mr Prime Minister, the other issue I want to put also has to do with the composition of the government and with a promotion and dispromoting it. The dispromotion he made was that of Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno, to whom they have come to call, not only in the election campaign as in recent months, « Ronaldo das Finanzas ». Therefore, Ronaldo was discouraged in the Government's hierarchy and, more than that, his intervention in this debate is not even scheduled, i.e., he will not speak to the one who was the maximum emblem of what you had to present. [[PS protests.]] In the face of this dispromotion, can you tell this House and Portuguese that Minister Mário Centeno will not leave the Government during the coming year, especially when the term of office of the Presidency of the Eurogroup ends and, at least at the same time, when the mandate of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal ends? Can you say here that Minister Mário Centeno is rocky and which is not a long-term minister? [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u29	The PSD to demand Mário Centeno! News after news!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u30	The other question has to do with the promotion of the Secretary of State for Energy, who has ceased to be Secretary of State for Energy to be Under-Secretary of State and Energy, therefore the second in the Ministry's hierarchy. We all saw the news about the exploitation of lithium in northern Portugal, in which Mr. Secretary of State granted the exploitation of lithium to a company that had three days of existence, which was based on a parish board of the Socialist Party and which had been constituted with as little capital as possible to constitute an anonymous company, €50 000, for a business of EUR 350 million. In addition, it was granted without an environmental impact study, when, shortly before, in Covilhã, it did not assign a concession precisely because there was no environmental impact study. So my question about this promotion is the following: Mr. Prime Minister, by promoting Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba, are you in a position to tell this House and the country that, on the legal, political and ethical grounds, Mr. Secretary of State has done well and without any maca? Are you in a position to say that to the country? [[PSD applause.]] The PSD Parliamentary Group, once Parliament and its committees have been set up, will certainly not drop this matter, because it is our obligation to make clear what happened, until strangely because the Portuguese Radiotelevision did not allow the programme that highlighted these matters to go to the air before the elections, having only gone into the air a few days after the elections. So one more reason for us to ask the question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u31	Mr Rui Rio, it is expected that the first round of requests for clarification will last for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u32	The indication I had was that I could get to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u33	Anyway, as you are using your own time, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, I have two more questions to ask you, and one of them has to do with health. Now we hear your speech, in which you said that everything that is wrong is going to be right — believe, of course, whoever you want. But I ask: why did you write in your program that you will never make a public-private partnership(PPI) during this legislation? This would certainly please the left and would displease the President of the Republic, who wanted a basic law made but not against the PSD. He left there a hybrid thing, but now it was clear: it is against PPPs and dislikes the more moderate sectors of Portuguese society. If a private person appears who says he manages a hospital more effectively and for less money, the government says: "I don't want". If a private person appears who says he does better and more economically, since the National Health Service is in many situations in chaos, the government says: "I don't want". If a private person appears to say that he is moving forward with the investments and maintenance that is necessary, the government says: « I do not want». If a private person appears who says he does hospital management, he reduces waiting lists and does not take any more money for that, since there are people who have been waiting for months for consultation or surgery, the government says: "I don't want". I honestly do not understand why, unless it is an ideological taboo, the government can make a contract and a well-made supervision, if possible, it has a position of principle to say that it simply does not. That is not a rational position and on that I wanted to hear your explanation for this matter. [[PSD applause.]] The last question I would like to raise — not to exaggerate at the time available, Mr President — is about something deeply regrettable that Mr Prime Minister did during the election campaign. After successive delays in the construction of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, the candidate, if possible, of the Socialist Party to the Prime Minister was to throw the first stone for the construction of this pediatric wing to the few days of the elections. We were all thinking that he did the management in such a way that the work began shortly before the elections, but, no, it was still worse than that. The work didn't start, it's been almost a month and nothing happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u36	In other words, he did something to regret, which was to use a serious matter — it is children with cancer to be treated in containers — to delude. It was there to make the illusion that the work would begin, in view of October 6, and the work did not begin. So I ask you: when does it actually go there to throw the second stone? That is, when will the works begin? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u37	In reply, Mr Prime Minister, who has already informed the Bureau that he will respond to requests for clarification individually. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u38	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I would like to greet you for your return to the Assembly of the Republic and as the leader of the opposition. I get better now because I said this is a place he doesn't like. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is because it was very clear, by the order of priority of your concerns, that you are simply doing a stage to come to be a TV commentator. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u39	Start wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u40	Mr Rui Rio, if the PSD so permits, I am sure that one day we do not know when we will have the opportunity to see the government that would form, if you have the opportunity to form one. Until then, I think each one should be concerned about his or her own interests. If you don't mind, I'm worried about the organization of the government and the promotions and dispromotions, and surely you'll be worried about the smaller size of your parliamentary group and about the dispromotions that may occur very soon in your life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u41	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u42	I am now answering the only three questions you have raised about the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u43	Four!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u44	As you surely know, the law determines that the exploitation of mineral resources is attributed to the entity to whom the exploration licence has been granted or to whom it indicates. Having given Mr Álvaro Santos Pereira that prospecting licence to which he has allocated, the operating licence would have to be allocated to the same company or to whom it would indicate. That's what's in the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, in this passage through the Assembly of the Republic, it is appropriate not to turn it into a place to make tobacco trials, because the Assembly is not a tobacco factory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u45	Is inspection tobacco? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u46	As for the other issue, effectively, as Prime Minister, I was not to throw any first stone in the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João because my predecessor had the privilege of doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u47	Twice! He went there twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u48	My predecessor had even the kindness of putting two first stones! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I just went there, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and not as Prime Minister, to listen to the assurances that the engineer of the work gave, that I respect and trust. And I look forward to inviting you, at the end of the first half of 2021, to accompany me in the inauguration of this work, which will surely be a good service for all children in the North. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as PPPs are concerned, what is contained in the Government Programme is not new to what we have always said. With this Basic Law, we broke, and well, with what promoted the Basic Law of 1990, that is, the role of the State was to encourage the private sector to compete with the public sector. in this Health Bases Act, against which the PSD voted, it was guaranteed that the fundamental function of the State was to ensure a National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free of charge. This fundamental clarification was made in the Basic Law. Still with respect to PPPs, it was also guaranteed in the Basics Law that any government, if so desired, can test this model. But this government does not wish to do so because we said at the beginning of the previous legislation that we would assess, on a case-by-case basis, the advantages and disadvantages and reality showed that, when the evaluation was positive, the opposite party did not maintain willingness and willingness to continue with the contract. And that's why they've been rescued, one by one, all the PPPs that existed and are ending. It is a model that you have every right to defend, as we have every right not to continue. And one of the enormous advantages that constitutes the wealth of our democracy is that we can have a stable Socialist Party government and a credible right-wing opposition led by the PSD. I wish you the greatest happiness, as I am sure that you also wish the Government the greatest happiness, for the sake of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u49	For clarifications, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u50	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the government, now in power, and the presentation here made of its Programme. Before we discuss the Government's programme, let me tell you, Mr Rui Rio, that it shows what it is coming from, giving shape to the statement it has made that the place of a Member may not be prestigious. Mr Rui Rio has opted for demagogy, populism and insinuation rather than to dignify the debate of the Government's programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Rui Rio, you expect more of an opposition leader like the PSD and you expect more of a member who has been in this House for 18 years and who should also honour your mandate. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear at this beginning of a new political cycle in Portugal: the Portuguese voted in political stability, voted in a Government of the Socialist Party and voted in the continuation of the success achieved in the previous Parliament, whether in incomes, whether in the growth of the economy or in the improvement of people's lives. Therefore, the Portuguese will not realize that there are setbacks in this legislation, even if the right all together likes it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the success of the previous legislation comes from negotiation, from dialogue and from the union of some parties who have faced austerity and impoverishment and who have supported the positive results achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first word of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is as follows: we will continue to fight for government stability over the next four years, for dialogue and commitment, for the benefit of people's lives, for the sake of improving people's lives. That is the commitment of this Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if much has already been achieved and if many commitments have already been made here, I would like to mention the idea of the Socialist Party, which does not only have to do with the minimum wage, which, fortunately, all points to increase again in this legislature. This bench also makes a commitment to the middle class. Mr Prime Minister, as it is included in our Government Programme and as it has been said today, it is necessary for the middle class to take a close look after the treatment it received in the time of the crisis and after the successes achieved in the past four years. The precise middle class and the Parliamentary Group will endeavour to ensure that, at the end of 25 years, we can have another agreement on the valuation of income, price recovery and the valuation of wages. This is absolutely crucial so that there is dignity at work and an effective link between the qualifications that people have to value their wages. But this middle class can only be valued if there is—as I said, and well, and that is why we want to welcome it—a policy of public housing with affordable incomes, because this guarantees dignity in housing and living conditions. We also want to highlight what is the biggest commitment in this legislature, which is that of fiscal justice and the progressive steps of IRS over the next four years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Strong democracies require strong middle classes, because that is what we are dealing with, without ever forgetting the most disadvantaged and thus combating inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Prime Minister, he has the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to monitor the government's action... [[Oh!Oh, my ……]] [[Oh!Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u51	...and to support it on the path that is traced. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not forget the role of Parliament. And the function of Parliament is to monitor the government, to monitor the action of the government. That is what we will do, the good of a stronger democracy, with better living conditions for people, with a stronger middle class. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u53	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, let me begin by congratulating you on your election as President of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the largest parliamentary group in the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that the interpretation of the election results is quite clear. The Portuguese said in the polls that they made a positive assessment of the last four years, that they liked the political solution that allowed the change in 2015 and that they now wanted to pursue the same political solution with a stronger PS—and indeed we have a stronger PS today. The honourable Member said — and it is true — that the right all together, from PSD to arrive, can only defeat the Socialist Party in this House if it can add to its votes the votes of the PAN and the votes of the whole left. Without the votes of the whole left and the votes of the PAN, the right does not win the Socialist Party in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this data is not arithmetic, it's political. It means that the Portuguese have said they want even a living democracy, where there is a PS government anchored in their own political space, which is the left, and also want a clear alternative, polarized to the right by the PSD. It is up to us to ensure that these political conditions created by the Portuguese ensure effective stability over the next four years. And for that, I have no doubt that the duty to promote dialogue and commitment lies with those who win the elections. It is with this position that we should be in this House, with democratic humility and with the same spirit and willingness to build solutions that allow us to continue to change, just as we were in the previous legislature. There were easier times and there were more difficult times. But there is one thing that I am sure: what guaranteed the durability of the previous government solution, a four-year legislature, was not to have settled in a past paper agreement—in fact, these roles were exhausted at the end of two years of legislation—it was the fact that, together, we were able to go far beyond what we had signed in the joint positions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If this has been possible during these four years, it will be -it will, for the most reason, now in the next four years. Our mission is very clear: we must face, we cannot delay, the major strategic challenges facing Portuguese and our country, the four major strategic challenges we have identified in our Government Programme. We must therefore face climate change, which threatens the very existence of humanity; we must face the demographic dynamics that call into question the collective future of our country; we must face the challenges of digital transition, which are at the same time an enormous opportunity but also a challenge to promote equality and ensure that we progress, without anyone remaining behind; and finally, we must face this permanent challenge of any socialist and social-democrat, which is the fight against inequalities in all its aspects — gender inequality, inequality based on origin and belief, inequality based on income. Finally, all forms of inequality must be at the forefront of our fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is very important to understand is that, at the same time as we face the strategic challenges, we must respond to the immediate needs of the Portuguese. And these are not contradictory to those, on the contrary, they have to harmonize. It is that, when we define as a priority to respond to the housing crisis, we respond to one of the fundamental conditions to face a new demographic dynamics, returning freedom to young families so that they can have the children they really want to have. When we give priority to public transport, we are not only guaranteeing greater mobility for people, we are also making a big contribution to tackling climate change. When we give priority to the development of the National Health Service, what we are saying is that it is a priority to face the challenge of combating inequalities. When we have education at the forefront of our concerns, what we are saying is that we have to prepare the new generations for the challenges of the future of digital society. So responding to today's needs is not contradictory with looking for tomorrow. On the contrary, we must mobilize the Portuguese today to face the great strategic challenges of tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u54	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has now given the floor to whom I would like to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also greet him for his election. Mr. Prime Minister, our responsibility is our mandate. And we are here, during this legislature, to seek commitments and negotiate concrete solutions that improve people's lives. That is what we are committed to, and that is why we proposed a written agreement with the Socialist Party. We are, in fact, certain that the programme now being presented would be very different if we had made this legislative agreement. But it was your decision not to do so and so today we are debating the Socialist Party's Government Programme. However, Prime Minister, we do not fail to note and appreciate his initiative to reflect in the Government Programme some concerns of the Left Block. We understand this initiative as a sign of the willingness to negotiate on the left the measures which this programme implements, particularly in the next State budget. This is the case at work of the political guarantee regarding the trajectory of the national minimum wage until the end of the legislature, a basis of commitment which is not expected by employers' pressures. And this signal that now advances is much better than the old referral to social consultation, which is dependent on the bosses and their acceptance of an appreciation path. It is also the case, in health, of a position that is not new, but which is now explained in the Program, from blocking to new PPPs, and which is essential to safeguard the SNS ( National Health Service ). It is still the case, in the environment and energy, of the closure of the central thermal power plant in Sines in 2023, which is not only — as the Block has always said — technically possible, as is environmentally imperative. And this is finally the case of the negotiation of daily flows in the Tejo River and a review that deepens the Albufeira Convention. They are political signs of the Socialist Party in three important areas — work, health and the environment — which we recognize. And here we will be for, with loyalty and full independence, to appreciate these and other proposals, to begin with the next State budget. But, Prime Minister, the proposal for a Government Programme is also marked by some important gaps. And as important as the positive signs that the government wanted to give to the left parties is what these empty ones signal. I approach them in the same order: work, health, environment and energy. First of all, there is nothing about the cuts remaining from the troika, there is nothing about reducing schedules, there is nothing about the elimination of the sustainability factor that unjustly penalizes so many pensions, nor is there any measure that implements the intention to combat the precariousness or the conclusion of the PREVPAP(Programa de Regularización Extraordinário dos Vânculos Precários na Administración Pública) and the response to the many hundreds of workers with suspended lives of failures of this binding process. I analyse the gaps and also the measures that the Programme sets out without realizing: penalization of companies with greater wage inequalities; limitation of continuous work; regulation of work on platforms; improvement of social unemployment benefit. All these measures are urgent. But how and when do they apply? The Government's programme says nothing, but the Left Block will not stop making proposals. Secondly, health. There is no investment and expenditure commitment in the Government Programme. Nothing about measures as structural as the exclusivity of the professionals of the National Health Service and not even the realization of full dedication. The Block here will be to fight for the realization of the new Health Bases Law, with the same conviction and availability with which we negotiated its principles with the PS in the previous Legislation. Thirdly, the environment and energy transition. Again, the first absence is the commitment to investment goals. In fact, the only objectives of the Programme that appear to be achieved are those of debt and deficit. For the Government, 3 % of the primary balance is worth more than recovering public investment. The problem is that if we do not invest in energy efficiency, in the territory, in the railway, in the decarbonisation of the economy, we will never have a certain account. The climate emergency is the crisis. And responding implies investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u57	Mr. Prime Minister, I have said this and I repeat: our commitment is our mandate, our programme is the demand for justice in a country that is still one of the most unequal in Europe. Thus, constructively, the Bloc here will be with a proposal and initiative to achieve the good intentions that we converge and that the Government Programme announces. The question, which is the question of the legislature, is whether the Socialist Party and its Government are willing to negotiate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u58	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u59	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, if that is the question of the legislature, until we could close the legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u60	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u61	... because the answer is obviously "yes". And the answer isn't from now on. I would like to remind the honourable Member that, at that time, she may not have properly followed the life of the Socialist Party — that in 2014 when I applied for the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, I proposed to the Socialist Party a very clear clarification of what its strategic orientation should be. It was not a tactical operation, it was only a clarification of its strategic orientation. That is to decree the end of this anachronistic concept called the "arch of governance" and definitely save the parties to the left of the convenience of merely being protested, and must first be confronted with the opportunity to contribute positively, as they have contributed throughout the last legislation, to the concrete resolution of the problems of the Portuguese. That is what I proposed in 2014 and that is what the Socialist Party approved in 2015. And when, in 2015, in the election campaign, I said that if the right had no majority, the PS was ready to form government with the support of the left, I knew what I was saying and I also knew that there were conditions to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These conditions, in fact, have come true. And against the blackest expectations, of the devils who came there seeking to ridicule, with the invention of the expression « management», this political solution, fortunately the country, thanks to the success of the governance and operation of the Assembly of the Republic, ended up adopting this expression as loving for that political solution. And we have always been consistent with our position. Therefore, what I say today is no different from what I said in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and surely will not be different from what I will say in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. I think this, in addition, because I think it is essential for Portuguese democracy to remain alive. And for there to be a living democracy, there must be alternatives. And, in order to have alternatives in our party system, we actually have to avoid solutions — and then I believe that I agree with Mr Rui Rio — of the so-called 'Central Block' or of large coalitions. In all the countries of Europe where large coalitions exist, the result has been hyperfragmentation, ingovernability and the strengthening of extremism. We must preserve the quality of democracy and, for that, there must be a living democracy based on alternatives. We have no misconceptions about where we belong in this Parliament. It is not for now that we have gained more places and caught the PSD that we diverted to the right. Our place is where we were born: on the Portuguese Democratic Left. This is where we were born, this is where we are and this is where we will be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are no voids. Work has been a priority. It's in the Government Programme, it was in my possession speech and it was in my speech today. We have three main priorities. One of them is to give effective combat to precariousness. It is not enough the amendment that has been made in the law, there is a need for active supervision to effectively ensure that there are no abuses or files. We have two major challenges: the general improvement of family incomes — not only of the minimum wage, but also of the Portuguese salaries as a whole — and also the obligation to meet this great objective of improving the reconciliation between personal, family and professional life, in agreement, moreover, with a pre-agreement that has already been established in social security. The State must provide examples, continuing to comply with PREVPAP. There are 16 000 opinions already approved. Only in the central administration are 1752 tenders open for 10 037 jobs. In local administration, there are 4101 competitions open for 9938 jobs. There are a total of 5543 competitions open for 19,975 jobs. We'll do it! There are no gaps in health either. The fundamental commitment we make in the Government's Programme is to develop the Health Bases Act, which provides, in particular, priority to full dedication. There are no gaps in public investment. It is EUR 10 billion, I repeat, EUR 10 billion of public investment currently being launched and to be implemented throughout the legislature. In addition to these EUR 10 billion of public investment, I remember two large private investments in infrastructures that are also launched: the new international airport and the new Vasco terminal of Gama, which, despite being investments made by privates, are very significant investments in strengthening new infrastructures. We also have a new multi-annual financial framework to negotiate and where we can mobilise the resources needed to continue to do more and better. For this reason, it is a Programme that does not have empty priorities: facing our great strategic challenges and also responding to the needs of work, health needs and the needs of increasing public investment. These will be the realities of this legislature. Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, for us to converge and for our willingness to proceed by negotiating in this Parliament. But it's not enough to negotiate! We need to negotiate, wake up and do what we agreed to. That's why we're here. I am sure that is also why the Left Block is here, because there is only one thing I have no doubt about: whoever voted in the Left Block even voted to give continuity to the political solution found in the previous legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u62	You don't know that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u63	I have the floor by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, Dean of the Members of this House, whom I am taking advantage of to congratulate. It's in this House since the Constitution. It is now the only Member who is in those circumstances. Please, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u64	Mr President, the problem is that the others have left! [[PCP, PS, PSD, and PEV laughs and applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Are we in front of the programme that the country needs? A programme that responds to the need to increase national production and public investment? What gives value to work and to workers? What gives urgent response to urgent problems that threaten the National Health Service, where is it enough to do nothing of what is urgent to do to destroy it? Are we facing a program that gives centrality to the right to housing and values culture? No, we're not. We are faced with a vague and comprehensive programme, designed not to compromise specifically with the political options that are required in the various areas, with formulations that indicate solutions of negative sense or even retrogression in Public Administration, transport, environment, disability, security forces and Armed Forces, local power, alongside omissions in relevant matters. Where the Programme is clear it is in macroeconomic policy options. It is rigid in priority to the deficit at the expense of investment, in the priority of the economy, in the perspective of the interests of capital at the expense of work, in the priority of debt at the expense of public administration training, in the priority of assistanceist views at the expense of the choices of justice in the distribution of wealth produced and of the real fight against poverty. Let us turn to five concrete issues, starting with the general increase in wages, which is a national emergency. In order to ensure the overall increase in wages for all workers, a set of measures are required to include the defence and dynamisation of collective bargaining, but also the fixing of the national minimum wage by € 850, both proposals already submitted by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u66	What choice will the government make? Will it converge with the CFP on these proposals and objectives? What about precariousness? The CFP has already presented a set of proposals to combat precariousness and to defend effective links for those who perform permanent functions. We insist on the need to complete PREVPAP, ensuring the effective link to all public administration workers who perform permanent functions. Will the Government agree with these CFP proposals, taking up the fight against job insecurity as a crucial issue for all workers, particularly for young generations? The third question is about the lack of workers in public services. Will the government agree with the CFP proposals for the urgent recruitment of health professionals, educational action assistants, judicial officials, security forces professionals and so many other workers who are in need of public services? It is the rights of the Portuguese that are at issue. The CFP proposals correspond to urgent measures, as the situation in the pediatrics of Garcia de Orta Hospital demonstrates dramatically, and it is necessary to know which option the Government will make in this regard. The fourth question is on public transport. The CFP has already put forward proposals to ensure that the measures taken in the previous legislation are definitely laid down in the law and strengthened in its scope and impact, with the strengthening of measures to reduce the price of passes, the extension of the supply of public transport and its overall application throughout the national territory in an identical manner. Will the government agree with these CFP proposals? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to talk about the issue of demography and birth. We know that many young families would like to have more than one child and do not make that decision because their working conditions prevent them from doing so or because they do not find adequate support measures on the part of the State to meet their needs. Guarantee decent working hours and compatible with personal and family life and ensure families safety and assurance of free daycare breaks for children up to three years of age are two PCP proposals that correspond to the wishes of these young families. Will or will not the Government agree with the CFP proposals in response to this question which also depends on our collective future? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u68	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I welcome you for your vitality which guarantees continuity. It is a good sign for all those who question whether, in this legislature, we will or will not continue the change that we started in 2015. from the government, the position is very clear and unequivocal : we are here to continue the change we started in 2015. We know that the political situation is different, but we also know that the answers to the problems that the country demands are those of the continuation of the path that we started, without setbacks, without being stopped marking step and much less without changing direction; on the contrary, giving strength to continue. And, as you used to say — and I hope you will continue to say — as long as there is a way to walk, here we are to continue walking. For my part, I see the way to walk, I will continue to walk and I would very much like not to walk alone. Therefore, Mr, it is very welcome to respond positively to the question that the Portuguese ask, which is whether or not we are going to continue the change we started in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member says that there is a lack of concrete commitments. Lack of concrete commitments? Oh, my God! In the housing, in addition to the commitment to develop the basic law, in addition to the new generation of housing policy that we launched, in addition to the Accessible Rent Programme, we commit ourselves to the concrete goals of, until the end of this legislation, only from the public promotion of the State, 10 000 fires on affordable lease and, until the 50 years of 25 April, in 2024, we ensure to the 26 000 families who still do not have a condigna dwelling that will all have a condigna housing, so that we can celebrate conditionally on 25 April. So these aren't concrete commitments? As regards public transport, are not the 10 new ships being purchased for transit? The 700 buses that are being purchased for various transport systems across the country? The 14 new compositions for the Lisbon Metro? The 18 new compositions for the Port Metro? The 22 new trains to the CP? The 20 trains that are finally being repaired at the CP? So these aren't concrete commitments, Mr? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] These are concrete commitments, as is also our option in terms of income policy, which, in fact, I have had the opportunity to say, either in the taking-up speech or today. That is: the increase in the national minimum wage, which surely is heard by the social partners, in view of the dynamics of economic growth and employment, but never forgetting the social value of the national minimum wage for combating poverty and reducing inequalities. We set a target: 750 € up to 2023 and, already for the week, we will listen formally to the social partners so that we can already set the value of the national minimum wage by 2020. More: we have launched a challenge for the social partners in consultation to set a reference to the collective bargaining package on the wage valuation of qualified young people, to which we must give a clear signal that it is here in Portugal that can build their future. In addition to the overall agreement on income policy — as I believe, moreover, that the CFP has repeatedly said, with the same wording, it is not enough to increase the national minimum wage, we must value all the wages in Portugal. That is the answer we have and our position is unequivocal. In the field of precariousness, a new law came into force on 1 October. We know that we have diverged into a specific point on this law, but we agree on what is essential: the elimination of the possibility of using as a basis for having a contract in the long term the fact that we are young and unemployed in the long term; the existence of penalties for companies that abuse the contract in the long term; the reduction of the number of possible renewals and the duration of the contract in the long term. It is now essential to strengthen the monitoring conditions to ensure that there are no files or abuses in compliance with the law. We will continue to comply with PREVPAP, as I said recently in my reply to Mrs Catarina Martins. As for the lack of workers, I fear he has been identified and we have made progress in this regard. They are more than 11 000 professionals only in the National Health Service who have been hired throughout the last legislature and we must continue this effort in many sectors of activity, according to our capabilities and also according to our needs. It is also open the largest ever competition for the hiring of 1000 new senior technicians of the Public Administration, in order to rejuvenate our Administration, to strengthen planning capacity and internalize in the State many of the consulting activities we have been sending out of the State, reducing the independence and capacity of reflection, planning and strategic thinking by the State. With regard to the PART(Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme), our commitment is complete, not only in the metropolitan areas but also in all inter-municipal communities. We will not have any retreat in this matter. Finally, with regard to demography, as I have had the opportunity to recall, there is already a pre-agreement at the heart of social dialogue in order to, within the framework of Programme 3 on the Line we launched, sign an agreement for reconciliation between personal life, family life and working life. There is also a very serious commitment to move forward with a network of day care centres throughout the country, on the basis of the agreement we have signed with all the institutions of the social and solidarity economy and also in the proposals contained in the Government Programme, such as the creation of a complement-care centres that supports families in access to day care centres. Thus, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa is certainly not the objectives or those issues that divide us. We may be closer or closer to each of them, but the direction we have is exactly the same. Therefore, just as you have given continuity to your parliamentary activity, I hope that in this Parliament we will continue the political change that we started in 2015 and that our country and our citizens want us to continue now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u69	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by complimenting you on this new legislation. I heard your speech, the great record parade that came to bring us once again and also the role of promises, from transport material to new hospitals. I imagine they are the same ones that we've heard more than a dozen times and that they don't grow up in front of these...!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u71	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u72	In fact, Mr Prime Minister, we are here to discuss the Government's programme and, although your Government is a real record player in its size and size — it is truly an ultra-Mega-Grande Government — I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Portuguese, to ask for clarification and to leave you a proposal. As part of this guarantee that you would like to leave this House, I would like to tell you about another reminder that your government has not spoken, which is, of course, the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u73	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u74	His Government was characterized by the fact that he had reached a tax burden as never before, but even never before had he seen himself in Portugal. In Portugal such a large part of the effort and work of the Portuguese had never been to the State, Mr. Prime Minister. This is a reminder from your government that the Portuguese feel in their pocket. I read the Government's programme — although Mr Prime Minister did things so that this reading was done in a few days — and I noticed that the term 'tax burden', which he used so much, had been perfectly erased. It doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u75	Baniram-na!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u76	However, there are some rather enigmatic things from a fiscal point of view, so I wanted Mr. Prime Minister to leave all Portuguese to guarantee that, during this legislature, no Portuguese with the same income will pay more taxes or more IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u77	They're going to pay, they're going!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u78	They'll pay less!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u79	I would also like you to explain if, when you talk about increasing the progressiveity of IRS, that means that everyone will pay less or that some will pay more and others will pay less.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u80	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u81	When he speaks in an approach to the tax benefit system that gives him greater clarity and effectiveness, Prime Minister, is this effectiveness for those who pay or is for the tax administration to go for more money, while there are fewer tax benefits?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u83	Finally, and more importantly, it says that we are going to walk towards the inclusion of the various types of income within IRS. Mr. Prime Minister, is this coverage of justice for more revenue at the IRS headquarters and for some Portuguese to pay less IRS? Or is it in fact going to be neutral, or neutral 'for English to see', what was the increase in petrol and gasoline, which was also to be neutral and ended up with the Portuguese paying more EUR 1 billion in petrol and gasoline? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u85	Secondly, I was asking you to clarify. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister says he will invest in the quality of public services, but I think there are many Portuguese people who wait and despair for a consultation in hospitals or even for his citizenship card and who, looking at your government today, realize that Mr. Prime Minister is, of course, much more concerned about the quantity than the quality itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u86	You have learned nothing from the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u87	So I wanted to know if we're going to stay here because I went to consult what he says about decentralization and, with all due respect, Prime Minister, it's a little enigmatic. I did not understand whether, after all, the government will or will not defend regionalisation. Look, what you say is that the conclusions of the work of the Independent Commission and the ensuing public debate are awaited. The Independent Commission has already submitted its work about three months ago. He studied regionalization and said: "The Commission is aware that the final decisions on the options under discussion will inevitably be political. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, in view of what the Commission says and argues that, with regionalisation, there will be five joints, with at least seven members each and at least 300 Members, what it asked was whether it would remain for this ultra-Mega-Grand Government or whether we are going to have five times, multiplied by the regions, with more than 300, almost 400, new political positions. I think that being a political decision, it is worth noting whether this debate will start or whether we will continue to discuss decentralization through INFARMED (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) and the huge flop that was decentralization. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, I wanted to leave you a proposal. One problem for which the CDS has been alerting you for more than four years is the fact that ADSE ( Institute for Disease Protection and Assistance ) needs new beneficiaries...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u89	...and of many Portuguese being treated as second-class citizens because they are not entitled to access to ADSE. The CDS will still present a proposal for a study to, with responsibility, open ADSE to new beneficiaries, granting this right to all Portuguese. We hope that our words will be heard this time. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u90	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u91	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I begin by congratulating you on your election as leader of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, hoping that you have a mandate with great satisfaction and the best political and personal results. Indeed, on record, we have, for example, had a 9 % increase in social security contributions, not because, as you know, we have increased the single social rate, but because, fortunately, we have had the record of the greatest job creation and wage recovery, which has enabled us to increase the social security contributions by 9 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This increase of 9 % of the revenue from social security, as you know, explains, essentially, that increase in the tax burden. The tax burden has risen, not because we have increased tax rates, not because we have increased the base of incidence, but because, fortunately, today the economy is more dynamic and generates more wealth, there is more consumption, there is more employment and there are better wages. So, fortunately, the revenue comes up thanks to the growth and dynamics of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u92	Ah! The recipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u93	The recipe! But it's not the recipe, it's the load!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u94	That is why, in fact, Mrs Deputies, I am somewhat surprised to see that, after the good assessment they had, because they were the champions of the fight against tax burden, although they have olympically ignored the high-level review that the National Institute of Statistics has made of the growth of gross domestic product (GDP) over the past four years, they have persistently maintained the same cause. I admire your coherence, but, as you will understand, coherence is not an exclusive of yours, it is also ours. Indeed, our priority is to ensure greater fiscal justice, to make the right incentives in tax matters and not to enter into an auction for a non-differentiated reduction of taxes for all and for all. However, I record an important innovation in your speech: your concern, now, is no longer with the tax benefits for the purchase of fuels that emit CO2,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u95	It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u96	...but it became the income of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u97	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u98	It is a very important step forward, from the previous legislature to the current one. I would like to tell you that what is contained in our Government Programme is the increase in the progressiveity of the IRS, so that there is a decrease in the payment of IRS by the middle class, which has not largely benefited from the elimination of the overtax, which we had inherited, and has not yet benefited from the increase in the minimum of existence, nor from the new steps we have created in the previous legislature. Therefore, those who are in the middle class and who pay their taxes will effectively pay less taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u99	You need to see what the middle class is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u100	Now, by the way you asked the question, I have to mention two questions. First, those who run away today will surely pay more because we guarantee greater efficiency in the collection of taxes that are due. We also respect each other's choice. For example, in terms of real estate income, until we exempt the taxable income for those who place their real estate on an affordable lease or for those who secure contracts that have no precaution. Indeed, this reduction exists and, in fact, many municipalities have reduced the IMI (municipal property tax) for those who meet these conditions. For those who do not do so—and have the freedom not to do so— it is likely that the enclave will result in a rise in tax. But fiscal policy is this: it is not to charge revenue for revenue, it is to give the right incentives to get the desired results and avoid unwanted results. That is what we will continue in this Parliament as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, you are right: the technical committee which the Assembly of the Republic has designated has delivered the report after the end of the last Legislative Session, and I am sure that the House will promote the debate on the proposals put forward. It is obvious that regionalisation is a political option and the Assembly will make this option, in so far as it is sovereign to do so. On this subject, the Government will not submit any proposals. However, given that the decision is political and finding that several people, since the previous referendum, have evolved in their position and therefore are today defenders of regionalisation—as I am and already was, but for example, Mr Rui Rio has already said that at the time he voted against, but now he is in favour of regionalisation—I have called attention to the need to avoid a voluntary process that leads us to new defeats where they should not exist, in particular: giving absolute assurances to the Portuguese that regionalisation does not mean an increase in expenditure, but more efficiency in the whole of the Administration; ensuring that, indeed, there is a strong enough political consensus for it to be able to move forward, ensuring, in particular, that the current President of the Republic was the champion of opposition to regionalisation, that regionalisation is not a brave, but that it has the conditions to be able to exist and implement itself. That is why I have recommended to everyone caution, little willingness, much debate, much clarification, a lot of questions and many answers to the doubts that exist, so that, when we move forward, it is with a firm, safe step and not "greater than the leg", so that we do not have a stumbling block like the one that existed more than 20 years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u101	You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u102	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Prime Minister. I want to start by putting the government's votes to a good mandate. On the programme presented by the Government, which would certainly not be the one presented by the NAP, we recognize that we have made an effort to approach areas that we consider particularly important, namely the fight against climate change, that we do not fail to point out as positive and that it demonstrates the importance and recognition of the work and the proposals of the NAP. An example of this is the introduction in the Government Programme of the NAP proposal aimed at the end of the production of electricity from coal and the consequent closure of the thermal power plants of Pego and Sines up to 2023. This is a crucial measure in the context of the decarbonisation of the economy, particularly in the energy sector, since these two plants are responsible for about 20 % of the total emissions from our country. This proposal which the NAP has long defended, often aimed at attempts to discredit, including with the announcements of an energy blackout, was accepted by the Government because it concluded that it is environmentally crucial and technically and economically viable to anticipate these goals. If, in this respect, the Government has recognized that we can be much more ambitious in the fight against our lives, that of climate change, the NAP hopes that this government position will be read as a sign of a mandate in which policies for climate action and ecosystem protection will once and for all be a priority and a sign that will increase the demand for control and regulation of polluting economic activities. Mr Prime Minister, also within the framework of the closure of the Pego and Sines thermoelectric power stations, and because the Government programme does not draw a solution to the concern expressed by the NAP regarding the professional situation of the workers of those two units and the coal port, I ask you what the Government is looking at for about 700 workers affected by the measure, in particular whether professional conversion plans are being guarded or other compensatory measures are being studied. We cannot fail to note, however, the many differences that separate us in energy and environmental matters. The Government has not yet taken a fundamental step: it is committed not to exploit oil and gas in our country. A coherent and responsible State—and as many times as Mr Prime Minister recalls that Portugal was the first country in the world to affirm the commitment of carbon neutrality— cannot continue on the wall. On the way to the third decade of the 21st century, and in a country with abundant sources of renewable energy, it is no longer understandable, Prime Minister, the narrative of wanting to reconcile the decarbonization of the economy with the exploitation of oil. Mr Prime Minister, can the country count on the Government and the Socialist Party to repeal the law enabling the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which the NAP will shortly bring to debate? Furthermore, Mr Prime Minister, and for the absolutely crucial role of mobility in people's daily lives, we note that almost seven months have passed since we approved the reduction of the passes, which allowed more users to seek public transport to travel, preterring, as desired, individual transport. However, today's situation in public transport, especially in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, with a lack of circulating material and a lack of articulation between the different operators, brings into question everything good that has been achieved with the measure. I ask you, Prime Minister: did you announce that it was the strengthening of the rolling stock, what is the time for this reinforcement to materialize? How much longer will it take for users to wait to be able to enjoy public transport in conditions? We also wanted to point out that the goal of reaching the value of 750 € for the national minimum wage at the end of the legislature seems to us little ambitious... [[PSD laughter.]] ... and that we will work towards seeing at least 800 €, as we defend in our Electoral Programme. Finally, we must not fail to note that we will work in areas that are either omited or little realized in the Government Programme, such as : developing a strategy for combating corruption ; effective monitoring of the application of the Housing Bases and Accessible Rent Law, with a view to meeting the effective needs of families, students, young people, the elderly and people in a homeless situation ; implementing more and better responses of emergency and transitional equipment in combating domestic violence and trafficking in human beings; valuing and ignifying the careers of professionals of the Public Administration; implementing incentives for self-production of energy; engaging in policies to prevent disease and promote health; defending more ethical and sustainable food production; empowering polluters or giving more protection to animals in the Criminal Code. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: in this legislation that now begins, the NAP, with a broader parliamentary representation, will continue, without deviation, the path that started four years ago: the unwavering defence of our ideas, seeking to advance our Programme with whom we want to follow us, but always with the sense of responsibility in building commitments and balances, always decisive to support the great advances of our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u103	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u104	Mr President, Mr André Silva, allow me to begin by congratulating the NAP on its clear reinforcement in the legislative elections and to wish the new parliamentary group that has been constituted, a good parliamentary mandate with whom I have already had the pleasure of working in the past, both with all those who will have the pleasure of working for the past four years. The closure of the power stations was an option already contained in the Electoral Programme and we can now implement the anticipation of the dates. And we can do this by ensuring the energy security conditions, which are absolutely essential. For this reason, regarding the central city of Sines, we define the two essential conditions : the completion of the dams of the Upper Thamega and the construction of a new high voltage line for the Algarve, which must be completed in mid-2022 and at that time will allow the closure of the central city of Sines to begin progressively. In any case, it is necessary to ensure the conversion of workers, necessarily — we must have a very strong social programme for the conversion of workers, in particular in Sines, but also the conversion of the Pego power plant to other activities, in particular being a biomass center, very important to create a strong economic muscle that enables us to effectively intervene in the management of forest biomass, which is, as you know, a huge risk to our forest. With regard to our natural resources, I will be clear: the country cannot afford to know what its natural resources are. As you know, in the previous government we were declaring successively the expiry of all licences that had been issued for the exploration and possible exploitation of hydrocarbons in our country. We do not intend, during this legislature, to open any invitation to tender for its exploitation. We are even available to discuss a long moratorium on the granting of new prospecting licences. I think it would be a mistake, purely and simply, to revoke the law. I think we should be prepared to have it, but with a very clear moratorium, in line with the choice we take. It should never be forgotten that, even after 2050, having achieved carbon neutrality, all estimates indicate that the country will still have to import significant amounts of hydrocarbons. This means continuing to penalise our external balance and weaken our energy autonomy. We must therefore always have reservations, but I agree that we can and should take a moratorium on their prospect. I would also like to be clear on another issue, which has not put me: the country cannot be against the exploitation of all the natural resources it has. The country must not want to know if it has oil and not want to exploit it, not want to know whether it has natural gas or whether it needs to explore and even have doubts about whether it should exploit a resource that we know it has, which is essential to ensure a global energy transition, which has to do with lithium. We cannot be afraid that we even want to explore the lithium we have and that we have to value this natural resource that the country has. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, as regards the minimum wage, its increase is essential. We believe that the reasonable goal with which we can compromise today is the 750 €. I believe that we need to assess with the social partners the dynamics of economic growth, the evolution of employment and also know the social role that the minimum wage plays in combating poverty and reducing inequalities. Surely, we all wish that economic growth and employment dynamics could allow us to go beyond the 800 € proposed by the NAP. What we have to do is work to ensure that every year there is not only the updating of the national minimum wage, but above all, increasing growth and better employment, in order to ensure, in a sustained way, the trajectory to the most ambitious level that we can have to improve the incomes of all Portuguese. It is in this trajectory that we are and in which we converge. I wish I could say it and certainly have that goal that the NAP proposes. If we get there, what great news will be. In fact, it will be another record for Mrs Cecilia Meireles to come to regret! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u105	For the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens', Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, while there is a road to walk, The Greens will also be here, provided the road is the right way. I repeat, as long as the road is the right way. Mr Prime Minister, we Greens see in the Government Programme positive signs, negative signs and positive signs 'but'. That is, signs that are potentially positive, but that, to be evaluated, require clarification. We are sure that, after Mr Prime Minister's clarifications, we will be able to put them in the lot of positive signs. Starting with the negative signs, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to leave to you what is already a concern for us: the fact that the Government's programme provides for increased expenditure in connection with NATO's commitments ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). We, as environmentalists, who bring peace into our DNA, must look at this strengthening of money as a very negative signal, as a negative one, indeed, is the fact that the Government programme does not have a single reference to the serious problem asbestos represents. As for positive signs, Prime Minister, we note the Government's intention to abolish non-reusable plastics by 2020. This is an important issue which comes to the meeting of what the Greens have long claimed, and we therefore welcome the Government, as we welcome the fact that the Government has welcomed the proposals of the environmental associations, in particular the ZERO Association, with regard to the anticipation of the deadline for the closure of the Pego and Sines plants. We also see as very positive the promise of a reinforcement, a strong investment at the level of public services. In fact, public services are all in need of investment. I'd say they're at least unhealthy. As I focus on public transport, the government also says that there will be a serious investment in public transport. It is a matter on which the Greens have also fought persistently, especially in the previous Parliament, because we have long realized that it is necessary to place public transport on a level where it is indeed a real alternative to the use of individual transport for citizens. We can also say that, after the advances that have been made in the previous legislation with regard to the social pass, it would even be a crime that would not now be on the side of the offer, because if we do not bet it will almost be like inviting people to leave or abandon public transport. In fact, reducing the value of the social pass was a very important measure, not only from a social point of view, with very positive reflections on family budgets, but also from an environmental point of view, and from a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and hence from combating climate change. But, Prime Minister, all this goes down the water if there is no serious investment on the supply side. If there is no investment, as I said recently, it will be to push people out of public transport. On this issue, I have two requests for clarification until the PSD and CDS benches seemed very uncomfortable when Mr. Prime Minister referred to the number of reinforcements of rolling stock and I do not know whether that number corresponded to what the PSD and CDS government subtracted from public transport! What I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, was whether, in fact, we are going to have a serious investment in public transport on the one hand, and on the other hand, what is the government's willingness to extend the measures taken at the level of the social pass to the rest of the territory, because this would indeed be a giant step, not only in terms of the mobility of the population, especially the interior, but also from the environmental point of view and the reduction of greenhouse gases. As regards rail, Mr Prime Minister, the Government's programme views it as a bet, which, for us, is very significant and, if taken seriously, can even mark a turning point in the way of looking at mobility policies that are sustainable. On this subject, I have three questions to ask you. First, when we talk on the railway, we must talk about the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company). EMEF has an absolutely central role, only it lives with a problem of lack of workers. It is true that, in the previous legislation, a strengthening, which continues to be insufficient, and the situation will tend to worsen if we take into account, on the one hand, that there are many of these workers who are almost reaching the age of the reform, and will therefore leave, and on the other hand, the increase in the number of users who have joined the train, which requires another type of response from EMEF. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what plans exist for EMEF and whether or not there will be new employment contracts for this company. I would also like to know whether the Government is planning to conclude the study on the railway connection between the city of Portalegre and its industrial area, which is based on the National Investment Programme 2030. Finally, I wanted to know if this time we are going to have the Alentejo Line duly electrified and modernized. I recall that there was a recommendation in this House, approved without votes against, which referred exactly to the modernization and electrification not only of the piece White House-Beja, but also Beja-Funcheira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u107	Mr President, although he has slightly exceeded his time, which will be discounted in the subsequent period, according to the practice of this House, rather than the rules. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u108	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I am glad that we are available to continue the road as long as there is a way to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u109	If that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u110	If the way is right? I'll give you several leads. First, the way is what we started in 2015, so if you like the way we started in 2015 is what we want to continue. If you don't want us back on this path, we're on the right track. If you don't want us to stand still to step up, we're on the right track. If you don't want us to change the course, we're on the right track. If we agree with all of this, then there is only one thing to do: we really start walking, moving forward, because time is urgent and we need to keep going. As regards the issues which you have raised, firstly, about whether investment in public transport is serious, I tell you that it is. As you know, the competitions are open, the competitions are ongoing and will begin to arrive, along this legislature, the compositions, ships and trains. The calendar is known and so it is. If they had been released into the legislature before the previous one, they would surely have been in the legislation that ended them could have come into operation, but as they were not, as they were only released in the previous one, they would be ready in this. Unfortunately, to buy trains is not like going to a car stand, it is necessary to make competition, it is necessary to comply with the legal rules of the competition, it is necessary to make the award and only there are trains starting to be produced. That's why it takes time. Fortunately we launched the contests, happily the time is already running and the results will begin to emerge throughout this legislature. The Tax Reduction Support Program in Public Transport (PART) is a country-wide program and is a program that is used as required by each metropolitan area or by each intermunicipal community. As you know, the distribution formula has to do with the number of people transported per kilometer. Obviously it is necessary to densify and develop public transport networks so that more people can use them and the more these networks are being developed and the greater the number of people to transport more will be the support granted by the PART for the development of this tariff programme. In fact, and because the situations are very different from the inter-municipal community to the inter-municipal community, from the council to the council, we believe that, as these competences are decentralized, each one can design the program according to his needs. For example, I would like to remind myself of how, in the municipality of Baião, the option of the President of the Chamber was to invest, above all, in flexible transport, in order to serve not the people who live in the center of the municipality, but the people who live in the multiple villages in which the municipality is scattered to ensure transport as necessary, in particular the older population, who have to go to the headquarters of the council to access health care or to any other need. It is this flexibility that we have to have and that only decentralization enables us to ensure. Finally, indeed, you know the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 110 / 2019, which was adopted last July 5 and which allows you to define the embryo of a new industrial policy in the area of rail. This is much more than strengthening EMEF — Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA, it is about doing on the railway what we started several years ago to do, for example in the car sector, and that has allowed us to grow today for new clusters, such as the aeronautical cluster. Yesterday, an investment of the highest importance in this sector was realized, and this is a path that we now want to start on the railway as well. This is the plan we have drawn here, which is to strengthen EMEF, but it is not only to strengthen EMEF. We must therefore go beyond that. As for the works provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030, which was voted here in the Assembly of the Republic at the end of the Legislature, it is now in the Higher Council of Public Works to draw up the appropriate opinion and, according to this opinion and the public debate, we will define it in time and time and with the urgency necessary to guide us in our negotiation for the next Plurianual Financial Framework with the European Union on the concrete issue that you put on the electrification of the White House-Beja line, the study is completed and, very soon, the competition will be opened for its implementation. The Beja to Funcheira linkage is not provided for either in the 2020 Railway Programme, nor in the 2030 National Investment Programme, and these will surely be the priorities. In the past Parliament, we made a great effort to have a comprehensive political plan with broad political consensus in this House, which, fortunately, exceeded the three quarters of the Members, so that we can have a properly consolidated plan, properly structured and now the basis of our negotiation with the European Union. Therefore, these will be the works that will have priority, and I repeat, await the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works. As for the railway connection to Portalegre, provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030, we await the evaluation being made by the Higher Council of Public Works. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u111	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, and since we are today on greeting day, let me say hello to you for having one of the biggest governments in Europe and the world. In fact, proportionally, it is a worthy record, especially for a government that said it wanted to reduce public administration's fats. It is indeed an excellent sign for the Portuguese! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. As we have little time, and the time is to meet, I would like to turn to the various questions that we would like to ask you about this Government Programme, which is, in good rigour, more an entertainment programme than a government programme. On health, still today the Court of Auditors has alerted to the unsustainableness of ADSE. What does the Prime Minister propose about this? Absolutely nothing! We have to face a zero and an empty one. The lack of basic medicines for various diseases should embarrass a government with these dimensions, but no, we have nothing about this, we have to improve health as if it were such a programmatic and vague thing. Mr. Prime Minister, today is a special day, is the day when a former Prime Minister is being heard, in a court, for corruption. And what does this government programme bring to us about corruption? Absolutely nothing! Will it or will it not bring back to this House the debate on illicit enrichment, redefined, of course, perhaps as declarative duties? Will it or will it not bring to this House an effective proposal for incompatibilities between government members and business with companies that have negotiated with the government and that have embarrassed any democracy that is taking place? Will the government have a plan against corruption and any vital incompatibilities between whom it negotiates with companies and will then work for these companies? We have here today the Minister of Internal Administration, whom I also congratulate. Mr Minister, once again, we have a programme that says we want more robust internal security. Imagine! Any of us could say that. Where are the measures to combat the teams closed at various points in the country, Prime Minister? Where are the measures to combat suicide in the police forces, one of the largest in Europe, which should shame us all? We are concerned about increasing the minimum age to watch the tourists, but not the age for the change of sex. We therefore forget the fundamental problems, the problems of such progressiveity... We still know that, after all, more progress in the IRS. Mr Prime Minister, we are penalizing those who work most, those who work most, those who want to give more to the country, always, and what the government brings here today is "we will have more progress", which is the same as saying 'we will choke the middle class more'. Mr. Prime Minister called the PSD leader populist, but it was not Mr. Rui Rio who was today populist. The Prime Minister is that he should come here to speak of any lithium negotiation in a socialist fregetal board and lament that this had happened instead of promoting the Minister who conducted this negotiation. This is what I should do today and not attack the PSD leader. Mr. Prime Minister, one last point, this is very important from the point of view of his own priorities: Mr. Prime Minister said several times that this would be the government of economic growth, but said that it was the government of economic growth with more money for families. What we want to ask you does not have to do with conversation, but with concrete measures: how will IRS be defined to give families, who today live suffocated in taxes, more dignity, more strength and, above all, more ability to live, especially in large cities, where prices start to choke this middle class that Mr. Prime Minister says so much to defend? That is what we expected to hear from the government today, and that is what we expected the government to come here to defend today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u113	Mr President, as has been the case with the Greens, the time spent during his speech, one minute and 12 seconds, will be taken from the time available for the second part of the debate. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u114	Mr President, Mr Ventura, first of all, the Government's programme is very clear about health: the first priority is to develop primary health care, the second priority is to double investment in integrated continuous care, the third priority in extending the dental check to children up to 2 years old, creating the valley of glasses for all children and young people up to 18 years old and all elderly over 65 years old who have the social income of insertion. [[PSD laughter.]] It also consists in developing and generalizing throughout the country the model of family health units, implementing, until the end of this legislature, the five major hospitals that are launched: the eastern hospital of Lisbon, the central hospital of Alentejo, the hospitals of Sintra and Seixal and I hope also the new hospital of Funchal. Our health commitments are very clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the fight against corruption, I hope that you will finally enrich our legislative landscape with the legislation you are awaiting to be enriched since I stopped being a Minister of Justice in 2002 because the whole legislative framework that exists, created at that time, is a robust legal framework for combating corruption, but I hope that someone will finally be able to modernise it. But I wanted to tell you that, more than you know, what we need is of means and, therefore, it was fundamental to the new Organic Law of the Judicial Police, which strengthened this Police from an organic point of view, from a human point of view and from a technical point of view to continue the fight against corruption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also the Government's programme to propose to the Assembly of the Republic — and I am counting on its vote — the duplication of the ancillary sanctions in respect of the inhibition of the exercise of public office and the creation, for the first time, of the accessory penalty for the exercise of management and administration functions of any society on the part of those who are convicted of the practice of the crime of corruption. With regard to internal security, we have not only a new law which was created for the first time in the previous legislature, or better for the second time, because the first law had already been created between 2005 and 2007... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It's not always to be quoting, it's just to underline, just not to be victimized... In the past legislature was approved the second Law of the Programming of Security Forces Infrastructure and Equipment, which we have come to comply with. We must also pay tribute to all our security forces, because they guarantee something that is absolutely essential and that it is also another record that should pride everyone: it is that, in international rankings, we are considered the third safest country in the world, and that is an essential factor for the lives of Portuguese and for our external credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member will certainly have confused the progress of the IRS with an increase in the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u115	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u116	The progressiveity of the IRS means that we must have properly differentiated steps to ensure what is essential in fiscal justice, that is, that each one pays according to his abilities. And what we've done is we've already increased the minimum of existence or unfolded the steps up to 40 000 euros of annual income. We now have to make an effort above €40 000, so what we are going to do, in this Parliament, is to break down the steps to reduce the taxation that affects the middle class. For us, the tax measures within IRS are not just about steps, for example, about the measures we have to increase the deduction based on the number of children, because if we want to respond positively to the change in demographic dynamics, in addition to combating precariousness at work and ensuring access to housing, we need to create better conditions for families in order to be able to have the freedom to have the children they want. Therefore, support measures in relation to day care centres or higher deductions based on the number of children are absolutely essential, and are provided for in our Government Programme. Mr President, I am sorry to disappoint you, but when we talk about economic growth we are not talking about rhetoric, we are talking about experience.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u117	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u118	For the first time since we joined the euro, we have grown above the European average in 2017 and are growing in 2019. And even in the most pessimistic forecasts we will continue to grow above the European average by 2020 and 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have to guarantee, as I have said and repeated, is that I have said it again today, but perhaps you have not heard this passage — that we do not have to grow above the European average, we have to grow more and we must have at least a decade of sustained convergence with the European Union. We must have a greater ambition for growth, and that is why I have challenged all the social partners to conclude a growth pact in order to give sustainability, security and predictability to all economic actors in order to effectively ensure this greater growth and have at least a decade of convergence with the European Union. That is the ambition we have and that ambition we will achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u119	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u120	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it should be with great joy that I am speaking today for the first time in this Chamber. This is the first time that a Member of an assumed liberal party is in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u121	Since the constitutional monarchy, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u122	Those who voted in us wanted to bring this Parliament a new attitude, a new vision. I should be happy to do so, but this joy did not resist reading the Government Programme. In fact, we look at that program, we look back at people and ideas and there's nothing new, nothing to be glad about. All we find is a huge difference between what the country needs and what this government wants to do. Despite the many routes Mr. Prime Minister mentioned in his speech, some are missing. There is a lack of a script of how it ends with the lack of qualified frameworks when what the government wants is to tax them more and more. A script is missing to end a country that is decapitalized, when the government wants to increase exactly the taxes on capital. A script is missing to eliminate the waiting lists of hundreds of people who are dying, when what the government wants to limit, to prevent people from using private health service providers for purely ideological reasons. There is also a lack of a roadmap for public schools without conditions to have as an alternative schools under conditions that the government allows students to choose. Because of ideological prejudice this doesn't happen either. There is still a script for a country where very few children are born to fail to have a government that has appointed only 13 pediatricians to health centres while arranging 50 State Secretaries. There is a script that solves the problem of corruption at once. We have a government that is more committed to preventing its comrades from being convicted than to actually end this phenomenon. [[PS protests.]] This program is more than the same. There's no trace, no ambition. Like four years ago, nothing contains that inspires the Portuguese, that freedom and encourage them to do more for themselves and their country. unlike four years ago, it says it is a program of correct accounts, but this time it does not even present these accounts. On each page, state attempts are being made to grow, which are still and always funded by new taxes. This Socialist Party has ruled the country for 24 years. It was 24 years of stagnation, in which we fell from the middle to the tail of the European Development Table. Judging by this programme, the next four years will be even worse. PS doesn't learn, because you don't want to learn, Prime Minister. He knows that, by keeping a country amorphous and resigned, he always has a group of poor, desperate, state dependents who will give him the vote. The poverty of many is what holds the PS to power, and since the PS does not exist for more than to be in power will never solve the problem of poverty that allows it to stay there. These words of the Liberal Initiative should have been pronounced with joy, but they must be pronounced, after all, with much energy, with the energy of those who know that today begins a long battle for individual freedom and against poverty that is supporting governments like this in power.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u123	Mr President, as has happened in the previous two cases, the time spent will be cut from the time it is allocated to it during the debate. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u124	Mr President, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, I begin by complimenting you on your election. I have an advantage over you because I have an ambivalent state of mind. I feel, first of all, a great joy to see you here, because I think that the wealth of democracy is based on what it defines as ideological prejudice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very good that someone is here saying themselves liberally, because, in fact, we are already a little tired of those who are shamefully liberal and are going to disguise themselves as social-democrats. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the PSD has someone genuinely liberal in which to see in this Assembly of the Republic. [[PS laughter.]] I must tell you that where you saw that we have absolutely different paths and you saw sadness I saw a great joy. It is that what is good in democracy is that the Portuguese can at every moment have alternative ways to follow. They know our path and evaluate it well or badly, they want to continue it or not want it to continue. One day, we'll get to know yours and they can choose it. Unfortunately—and that makes my feeling somewhat ambivalent—I was disappointed today because I expected to hear him say that he does not agree with our Programme, but I expected to hear him say something, a different and new idea for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u125	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u126	Then, I confess, I was pretty disappointed, because nothing said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I can recommend to you first that you do your job of rereading the Government's programme and verify that there is not a single proposal for an increase in taxes in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u127	There is, by the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u128	...for people and families of the highest income, for corporate taxation. There is no proposal in it for tax increases for any form of income. Secondly, Mr President, let me also be somewhat divided between the satisfaction of seeing that we are, in fact, different in our ideas, and at the same time to understand the point of our difference: the idea of why there is poverty in Portugal and who are the poor in Portugal. I believe that you will certainly not take the initiative to propose the replacement of the census vote so that at least those who have at least do not have the ability to elect as many Members in this House of the Republic as those who have elected you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u129	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to spend a great deal of time in high compliments. I shall begin immediately by referring to the following: immigrants and ethnic minorities need to be looked at with the same respect and the same importance as migrants and the Luso-descendants. I wanted Mr. Prime Minister to explain to me how he would encourage an immigrant look at the national community, rejecting their children's immediate nationality. I would also like to point out that there is no fight against inequalities with absolutely miserable minimum orders such as those we normalized and with which no one in this Chamber would be able to live. I also mean that it is not enough to say that we are environmentalists. I ask you what is the budget for combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u131	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u132	Mr President, Mrs Joacine Moreira, first of all, on immigration issues, Portugal has a long history of migration. For many years we have left, but in recent decades we have also been welcomed. It is very important that we never forget that migration is not a phenomenon of conjuncture, but it is part of the history of humanity since its origin. 50 000 years ago we started a journey from the African continent and since then we have not stopped walking around the world as humanity. In the books of History, we often tend to think that the great migration waves were moments that happened at an apex, when they actually happened over decades or even centuries. This is a reality with which we all need to learn to live, in the same way that we live with climate change, with the dynamics of life, with the cycle of seasons of the year, because migration is part of the life of humanity. What we also learn throughout our history is that whenever we close to others we become impoverished, whenever we open ourselves to others we enrich. So, Portugal, so far, must be a proudly open country to the world and to all those who want to live in Portugal. And more: we are at a stage in our economic life where there is no employer and there is no sector of activity that does not tell us that it is urgently necessary to respond to the labour shortages we have. It is not worth having the idea that we need to live with a quota regime, because the experience of the crisis has also taught us that there is a natural regulator of flows that has to do with greater growth or economic recession. Therefore, we define a mobility agreement within CLPL as a priority. And I have a lot of hope that this agreement will be possible in the current presidency of the CPLP, Cape Verde. But as we have also said, if a multilateral agreement within the framework of the CPLP is not possible, we must act unilaterally or bilaterally with the countries that want to move forward with us. In the current structure of the government, so criticized, we created for the first time a State Secretariat for Immigration, because the efforts to integrate into our society, the effort to have an inclusive society also goes through the integration of immigrants in Portugal. We therefore have this new organic unit, with a very important differentiation, which is fundamental: a clear separation between what must be the institutions dedicated to immigration and the policies and institutions that are dedicated to combating racism and xenophobia, because the fight against racism does not have to do with nationality, it does not have to do with origin, because much of the discrimination refers to Portuguese nationals, Portuguese nationals, who were born in Portugal and have always lived in Portugal, who simply have a different skin color and have to be treated equally with the other Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There was a great advance in our Nationality Law in 2006 / 2007, which was abandoned the traditional jus sanguini criterion to also adopt the jus soli criterion. As a rule, children born in Portugal, although children of foreign or non-national parents, are also Portuguese. It is necessary to deepen and make an assessment in order to bring to all consequences the criterion of jus soli, but above all to eliminate much of the bureaucratic obstacles which have made it difficult to assign nationality to whom the law already recognizes the right to have nationality originating in our country because it was born in our country. Finally, on the environmental issue, Portugal was not only the first country in the world, until 2016, to commit itself to the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, as it was also the first country in the world, through the Government to which it gives continuity, to approve the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, setting the targets, moreover, more ambitious for this first decade – until 2030. But this roadmap has not only goals, it has policy measures and it has budgetary estimates, so when I wonder where the budget is, I can tell you that the budget is on this roadmap and has to be implemented every year, either by the State or by private investment, which is also necessary for Portuguese society to achieve this objective. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, what we are sure of is that throughout this legislature we will be able to make concrete progress to meet the goals of this first decade by 2030, and we will continue to lay the foundations of the policies needed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. Thank you very much for your questions, Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u133	We continue with requests for clarification from the Prime Minister and their replies. Mr Prime Minister has informed the Bureau that he will answer the next eight questions together. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, Mr Prime Minister told us that this Government programme had a road map to improve the state services provided to citizens. So I have to think that there was no script in your previous government. In fact, the feeling is that public services in the State have been grossly failed by the citizens. And I will give you two examples, Prime Minister, in the field of health and pensions. In the field of health, Mr. Prime Minister, the ADSE report yesterday left public officials panic because it basically says two things. The first is that about EUR 540 million was available, a large part of that money was arranged by the government before it and the second is that at the moment this money is exhausted and that there will be a deficit of EUR 17 million in ADSE next year. It's 1 million and 200,000 employees, Prime Minister! Question: What does your Government's programme say about this? It is that we have found nothing on this disturbing issue for public servants. Also in the question of health and the National Health Service, you say that now, in this government, the National Health Service will be the jewel of the crown. Look, Prime Minister, the crown jewel! Question : And in the former government, which was also yours, what was it? Was it some chisbek? Was that something from Pechisbeque? It is that, basically, the feeling we have is that the National Health Service has become very degraded and does not respond to the citizens. In fact, as Mr. Prime Minister says in a pearl of his holding speech, on page 6: “I heard the citizens saying ‘ look at me at the National Health Service. ’ Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, they were not making a request to you; they were making a criticism, a tug, because the National Health Service worked badly: they increased the waiting lists, the debts of the hospitals grew and the five hospitals that now seem to be 2023 were not made! Nothing has been done! So, Prime Minister, what you missed in the National Health Service was investment and now we read the Government Program and there is nothing about modernizing investment in the National Health Service. So the feeling with which we are left is that the SNS will not be such a crown jewel, it will certainly be much more the continuation of the Pechisbeque which was, after all, in the previous government. Mr Prime Minister, we are left with the feeling that this government is "a lot of raisins and a lot of grapes" or, using its expression, "a lot of roadmaps and a lot of goals". Another question has to do with pensions. Returning to such a citizen who finds him on the street and tells him « we can't be two years waiting for our pensions to be allocated», I mean, Mr. Prime Minister once again, that it wasn't a request; it was really a tug. I will even tell you something that seems important to me: this citizen who drew attention to you was being ungrateful to you. You know why, Prime Minister? Because you said here in April 2019 the following: « With regard to delays in the processing of pensions until June,... » — and you repeated — «... by June everything will be returned to the delays ». Mr Prime Minister, then, in the election campaign, a citizen approaches him and says'see how he is doing with pensions'? The truth is this: pensions take years to be allocated by the National Pension Centre and now the problem — see! — extended to the General Pension Fund: 300 days of waiting for a pension for public servants! Question: where is the answer for the citizens, public officials and others, who question him on the street, not in a logic of request, but in a logic of tug? It is that in its Government Programme the answer to this question does not exist, and this is worrying. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u135	Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u136	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to reduce inequalities we must be able to build a fair and progressive tax system, and today the Socialist Party is committed to society. The construction of this tax system goes through the ability to ensure that the contribution each citizen makes to the construction of society and to the functioning of cohesive and demanding public services is consistent with its income, regardless of its source, and is equitable in its application and distribution. The reduction in the fiscal effort of families is the central vector in the continuity of the policy of combating inequalities and the policy of return and increasing income, and that is why it is so important not only to follow up what has been done in the past four years but also to work to go further in promoting fiscal equity. It is not too much to remember what was done: in four years, we increased the steps of IRS, allowing tax relief to many Portuguese families; we increased the threshold of the minimum of existence, allowing more families with fewer incomes to be exempt from IRS payments; we finally ended with the overtax of IRS, which, although it was an extraordinary measure, seemed to be going to be eternal; we reformulated deductions, in particular by resting a deduction and increasing their value for a fixed child allowance, ending with the system that, yes, was regression; and we promoted a set of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion that allowed greater fiscal fairness. Some will say, as they have already said, that we have witnessed an unprecedented increase in the tax burden imposed by the Socialist Party over the past four years, and these are the ones who today say they are the guarantor of the reduction of the tax burden. But those who today say without reservation that the Socialist Party has increased the tax burden were the same as those who voted against the reduction of the direct taxes we promoted during the last State budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, we have promoted this reduction in the last four State budgets, which has allowed Portuguese families today to pay less than EUR 1 billion in IRS. These are also the same ones that devalue that the increase in tax revenue comes from the better functioning of the economy and the effective real increase in people's income and consumption, and this is due to the work that the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens Ecological Party have done and which together have managed to increase the income of families. It will be asked whether this is enough if the Socialist Party and the Government are satisfied only with the realization of the past four years. I would say that the Government's programme is very clear: no, it is not enough! There is still a lot to be done to promote more social justice and less inequality and the Government's Programme is very clear by explicitly referring to the progressive elimination of differences in rates that are being applied to different types of income, thereby allowing more progressive taxation and expressly saying that "we will continue the work we have done to increase the steps of IRS, allowing a new tax relief for Portuguese families". The Government Programme is clear by saying « we will eliminate the tax deductions and benefits that today have a regressive effect and will continue to combat aggressive tax planning ». It is therefore important to ensure that what seems to be a cross-cutting concern for all the parties represented here is effectively a realization of the XXII Constitutional Government. Mr Prime Minister, today we are presenting a set of measures that are effectively going beyond the implementation of the last four years. The Government Programme presents serious and demanding commitments to the people and to reduce the tax burden. And since today the level of demand is indeed higher, I would ask you, Prime Minister, to guarantee that the expectation and trust we place in a Government programme based on more fiscal justice are effectively transposed into concrete measures, bringing about the work that has been done over the past four years and providing better living conditions to Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u137	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u138	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government's programme identifies priorities that we subscribe to, for example, fiscal rigour and the fight against inequalities. But if we read carefully the implementation of these priorities, Mr. Prime Minister knows that we find many expressions such as 'promoting','strengthening','strengthening', 'training', 'walking in the direction of' and less concrete measures. This debate is therefore a good time to check whether a compromise for concrete progress in fiscal and financial justice is possible. And it is in this spirit that I would like to know your response to four very concrete measures that I have to propose to you. Starting with fiscal justice in Portugal, who declares EUR 1 million in wages to pay a maximum rate of 48 % of IRS plus an additional solidarity, and that is correct. But if the same person declares EUR 1 million in interest or dividends only pays 28 % of IRS. If we agree that there must be a single and progressive tax on personal income, as the Constitution says, then there is only one way to correct this injustice: it is called 'a totality of all income'.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u140	If that is the intention of the Government — expressed by the Socialist Party for the first time in its Programme — i.e. to make a compulsory inclusion of all incomes within the IRS, in this Parliament, then from now on I tell you that you have a parliamentary majority here to implement this measure. Secondly — we had discussed it in the previous legislation — we have the question of fiscal progressiveity, i.e. the introduction of new steps in the IRS to relieve the middle class, but also a model of fixed deductions for education expenses, to end differences between rich families and poor families. Thirdly, I refer to the end of the tax benefit for non-standard residents because they have a tax expenditure of EUR 600 million, but above all because it is fair, because we have a duty to equalise all pensioners and all employees in taxes that pay the State. The fourth measure is a new urgency and concerns combating abuse in banking committees. This concern is mentioned, although generally speaking, in the Government Programme and therefore I would like to know whether it agrees with basic measures to solve the problem: a universal guaranteed basic services account, the end of MB Way committees and, finally, a rulebook for the General Deposit Box, because it is a public bank and has public bank obligations to comply with for its customers. Mr Prime Minister, at this beginning of discussion, these four measures are a guarantee of the commitment to justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u141	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, recently reaffirmed his intention to continue the path opened four years ago. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is good that there are things that are not left on the way. in this government programme, it is known that many problems that have been resolved by the previous government are at risk of being left on the way through omission. This omission has meaning: speaking of people, professional careers, essential public services that ensure fundamental tasks of the State, for example careers in justice, security, health, education, the provision of essential services to citizens. Mr. Prime Minister, technology and digitization don't solve everything. The country cannot treat people who carry out essential functions of the State as disposable parts. The country cannot pass without the doctors, nurses and other professionals of the National Health Service, it cannot pass without the teachers and operational assistants of the public school, it cannot pass without the professionals of the security forces and services, without the military, without the people who, day by day, guarantee the functioning of the State and assume the obligation to serve the community more and better. Mr Prime Minister, the guarantee of the fundamental rights of citizens who are responsible for the State to ensure is not made without the fact that there are professional careers valued, without conditional wages that prevent the abandonment of public services, without the conditions of stability and career progression. The question before this Government Programme is: what expectations can doctors, nurses and other health professionals have? What career prospects will court officials, registries and notaries, the prison system, the military, the personnel of the security forces and services, the education professionals and the revaluation of their careers, after decades of devaluation and with so many problems that have not been solved? Mr Prime Minister, this issue is not just about professionals, it concerns all citizens, because without public careers we will not have the SNS that the Portuguese people so need, we will not have the public school that our young people deserve, we will not have the security and criminal investigation, the justice necessary to ensure the necessary fight against crime, corruption, domestic violence and social scourges. Mr Prime Minister, these are the certain accounts that the Government must truly lend to the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u143	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I will mention two topics and, basically, ask three relatively specific questions. We know that your Government's programme is vague, but concrete when it is appropriate for the government, in particular by winking the eye at its former partners or new friends. It is as concrete as trying to set the age to watch a particular show, thus winking the eye at its most recent friends. But it does not talk about essential themes! It has already been announced that this Parliament will very briefly discuss a central issue — euthanasia. The position of the CDS on this issue is known: we are, we are and will be against the way we view the value of life. I ask you, Prime Minister: what is the position of the Government? If there is no government position, what is its position and, on the limit, what is the position of the Socialist Party? This is a fundamental issue, it is not a matter of indifference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u146	Mr Prime Minister, in fact, has a great, very large government. That having a great government is another matter and, frankly, I do not think that it has a great government. I think you have a big government, you don't have a big government. It has a new government, but in essential areas, it is the old government. I give you two examples: the Minister of Justice, who wanted to be released from this position, had to remain. By the way, I ask you the following: will you or will you not finally regulate the law of lobbying, ensuring more transparency, as the CDS defended? He is also the Minister of Internal Administration, although the Secretary of State of the « golas », the President of Civil Protection, also the President of the « golas », but the Minister remained. That has a problem, Prime Minister. We have recently learned that, in terms of foreign and border services, it has happened a little bit of everything over the past four years: networks supporting illegal immigration, covering serious situations... Look, for example: 487 citizens of Indonesia who have entered as Brazilians; two citizens in order to expel the Schengen area by criminal activities, which have been covered by this network of bribes and corruption, introduced into our country. These — Mr Prime Minister will say — are matters of justice, are matters of such operation Cape Route. But what about the government? This question about the government is obvious, Prime Minister. It is that there is a report on all these matters, with all the evidence, that the government has access to and that it has left absolutely in the drawer. More: this report indicated some officials, and the government not only did not leave the report in the drawer, as subsequently awarded those responsible, placing one in Frontex and the other in REPER (Permanent Representation of Portugal to the European Union) with which it had nothing to do with. So when the Prime Minister comes here with a new government, which is the old government, he has to answer the questions with which the government has been debating over these years, the government being the same. In short, does the government know about these evidences or not? Did the government value these evidences or not? What did the government do about this? Mr Eduardo Cabrita, when he was in his parliamentary committee, said nothing about the matter. The same is true of the security forces and of the essential issues concerning the security forces. Mr Prime Minister said « we will do », « we have some solutions », « we are thinking about several things ». The fact is that, over four years of mandate—and I say to you directly, Prime Minister, that we do not want big ideas or big plans, we want concrete questions—, admissions, no change in remuneration rates, no promotions, not even the supplements that the Court has decided they were paid, no risk allowance! Zero! Nothing! The next question, Prime Minister, is to know what the government is going to do, because the Government Programme tells us nothing, only talks in « joint », « joint ». What does that mean? Merger of the security forces? Is that what you're defending? It is good that they say so, because the government says nothing and then talks in more planning at four years. We already know that when socialists start planning, the four years come to an end and nothing is done. The protest is announced, the discontent continues and I ask you directly, Mr. Prime Minister, what is the answer, because good intentions do not arrive, good intentions in this matter are, to us, absolutely nothing, zero. This question is not now, because we have spent four years raising this matter year after year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u147	As in other cases, the time the CDS used most in this intervention will be discounted during the debate period. Mr Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, two of the issues I bring are concerns of the NAP in relation to the Government programme now presented. In terms of housing, successive governments do not properly anticipate needs and today we are living a dramatic situation in access to housing. As of 2018, the national survey of housing reallocation needs identified 26 000 aggregates living in indignant housing conditions. In turn, studies on the rental rate of effort, i.e. the weight of renting on family incomes, reveal that this is 51 % in port and 58 % in Lisbon. In any case, it corresponds to more than half of the family income. The Accessible Rent Programme also provides for a maximum of €1100 in Porto and in Lisbon the value of €1150, which is not coupled with the economic capacity of most Portuguese families, who can hardly bear these values and much less access to other goods and services. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how the Government will monitor the incentive for affordable leases and ensure access to 1. the Right- Programme to Support Access to Housing. In view of the Government's objective in eradicating all housing deficiencies by 2024, will the Government present a timetable of the housing objectives it defines? Mr. Prime Minister, another fundamental issue for us is that of education. The school year began on September 13 and began with more than 11,000 students without teachers. Most of the hours available, in these circumstances, by the Ministry of Education, were partial, resulting in low wages. Thus, it was found that there were not enough candidates to respond to the actual needs that exist in our schools. at the same time, we have been witnessing a worrying growth of the average age of teachers. In the OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), it is reported that only 1 % of teachers in Portugal are under 30 years of age and only a decade ago this value was 16 %. By 2023 it is estimated that 10,000 teachers will be retired. In the case of operational assistants, it is estimated that there are more than 3000 missing in public schools in our country. Mr. Prime Minister, the non-response to permanent effective needs in schools also concerns other professionals, such as psychologists who work in the promotion of mental health, vocational guidance, in the development of programs appropriate to the needs of educational communities. More than remedial policies, we need to start investing seriously in prevention. Mr Prime Minister, we would like to ask you two questions. What measures will the government take to make the teaching more desirable for the younger ones and how will it benefit from the knowledge of the nearly 10,000 teachers who will retire? Finally, how does the Government intend to resolve the instability with which the school year began and to respond to permanent effective needs? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u149	I mean the same thing about the times of your parliamentary group. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr President of the Republic said, and in the act of taking over the government, that the economic growth that has occurred is not satisfactory. In fact, that is an understandable observation. See Prime Minister : in 2015 among the 28 Member States of the European Union, Portugal was listed in 18. the position in terms of GDP per capita and today four years back we have fallen to 21. a, with only seven countries poorer than us. Worse: to continue this pace, to see this trend, it will soon come the day when we will wake up and be the poorest country on the richest continent in the world. This is a journey that can only satisfy those who have no ambition, who have no ambition to build a more prosperous country, who offers better services, decent public services to their citizens, and who create conditions for citizens to take revenge on their life plans. But despite these facts, the issue of economic growth is not a priority for this government, in fact, it is not well-considered as a problem. And since it's not a problem, it doesn't have a solution, it doesn't deserve a response, it doesn't deserve treatment. There are no references to the private initiative, which is a terrible prenunciation and denounces the statistical logic, thus not based on a consistent view of economic growth, our endogenous resources and our comparative advantages. Mr Prime Minister, once and for all: Portugal is not converging in incomes. GDP per capita by purchasing power parity, i.e. what each can buy with what he earns—and that is what interests each citizen—has fallen in Portugal in 2018 to 2013 levels,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u151	... fell from 76, 5 % to 75, 7 % compared to the European average. As a result, income is falling from the European average. This is a problem that we must overcome, but we will not do so without structural reforms and without unlocking the chronic bottlenecks that undermine growth and choke on the good initiatives, the best energies in our society. Nor will we do so with a record tax burden, which the Government has resigned from reducing and nothing has said, although it has announced, Budget after Budget, its intention to reduce. This government, with the signs it gives to the left, with the proclamations it makes, will live on parole, because it will need the agreement and acceptance of the left for everything you want to do. And these will never be structural reforms that restore the country to more economic growth, to a stronger and higher vision of the future. We need investment and savings and we need to tell our young people, Prime Minister, that we need them here for social security, for their reformist impulse, for their birth, for their qualifications. We must tell them that it is worth studying — the government says otherwise — that it is worth investing in their training, that their effort will be paid and that it will not be consumed more and more by the hopeless state and with less and less future. The Government is consistent, Prime Minister. He wants to do everything, or almost everything, just like he did.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u152	And you're contradictory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u153	But if we do everything the same way, we're going to get the same results and we're going to have more difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u154	Divergent? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u155	And the divergence will bring about the increase in relative poverty, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister, he explains to this House and to the Portuguese because Portugal, since the Government has operated this economic miracle, is being overcome by several countries with regard to levels of wealth and what it will do to reverse this situation. Also explain to the Portuguese, Prime Minister, why he registered in April 2019 EUR 5 billion of public investment in the stability and growth programme that he delivered in Brussels and now, both in the Socialist Party's electoral programme and in the Government's programme, he entered EUR 10 billion. Are we going to have captivity again, Prime Minister? Are we going to have again in the Budget, in the loop, the same thing, to never accomplish anything and we're going to promise successively, leaving the abandoned public services as they are? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, you have to give a guarantee to the Portuguese that you have not yet given, because it has not yet been clear or objective. Mr. Prime Minister says he does not intend to increase taxes. But, Prime Minister, how is it that you opt for the inclusion of real estate incomes and currently have a contract to be concluded, paying 28 % of those incomes? I'm talking about the middle class, which is not the most paid, most favored, the one that the left one has on the tip of the tongue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u157	Some even pay less!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u158	If that is the way forward, we will not only have more taxes, but above all we will have a deadly blow to the housing market — housing that the government wants to be accessible, but takes the carpet to which the houses are placed on the market, making it disfigured, deverted and putting it at stake. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u160	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u161	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, most worthy Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, there are a number of points I would like to make. For the last four years, to the detriment of the closure of services — health services, tax administration services, justice administration services — denying the state and its fundamental responsibilities to the people, we have chosen to strengthen the means, modernize the administration and restore dignity to those services in their relationship with the people. I was able to live closely, as the author of low-density territories, a very critical moment for the lives of our local communities. I then had the opportunity to be with the Prime Minister in the Government and to know closely, and deeply, the changes that have been made. I would like to remind you that — and this is the first finding — while the Public Administration was destroyed and fundamental public goods and services were mentioned to the people, we were able to restore confidence in the institutions and in the rule of democratic law. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The second finding, Mr Prime Minister, is that we have also been able to regain confidence in public school, higher education institutions and institutions that make up our national scientific system, which is essential for the enhancement of the fundamental element of development and which is, for us, the origin and destination of politics — people. The third finding is that we have succeeded in promoting a income recovery policy, we have managed to ensure the stability of the financial system and the banking system, we have generated confidence in families and we have built confidence in companies. Enterprises have invested and created jobs and employment has stimulated domestic consumption and production. With this, we have also been able to ensure other sustainability of the social functions and also of the strategic functions of the State. We recovered the credibility and prestige of the country in international instances and the Portuguese communities abroad today, look to the country and want to come invest here and those who left want to return. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We have grown above the European average and have managed to converge with the most developed countries in the European Union. Our growth, curiously—and contrary to what has been said by some and some—is based on all the variables of growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u162	Not all of them, not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u163	It is based on innovation and knowledge, by inserting the country into international value chains, and based on increased exports and market diversification. We must not forget that we have won — our companies have won, our work has won, the country has won; that we have been competitive in markets to deal with economic and political crises in our partner countries — just look at the cases of Latin America, Venezuela, Angola and Mozambique ; and that we have managed to grow in exports and diversify our markets — despite the economic crisis, which, of course, has damaged our trade relations with some of these areas. We also grow in foreign direct investment. Yesterday, the Minister for Economic Affairs announced a major investment in advanced technology in the North, particularly in the aeronautical sector, but also in information and communication technologies. We have been able to move forward with a public investment plan and, as Mr Prime Minister has said, it is a public investment plan that has two fundamental variables—in fact, they are essential for the Socialist Party and for social democrats—which is to reconcile the competitiveness of the country's economy with, at the same time, social, economic and territorial cohesion and making investments in critical infrastructures, fundamental to the affirmation of the economy at the international level, and to invest in housing infrastructures, hospitals and primary health care, essential to ensure that competitiveness does not leave anyone behind and that we are more internally cohesive to compete better externally. Mr. Prime Minister, we have fulfilled our words to the Portuguese people because we have valued people, dignified their institutions and helped to dignify the state. We have reached the lowest deficit in democracy and have succeeded in reducing public debt, which is still one of the main objectives of the Government Programme. That is why the Portuguese gave us a clear and unequivocal majority to rule for four years. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to conclude by asking a question. I know well that the Government, in the exercise of its functions, of its responsibilities, internal and international, has not yielded to reactionary policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u164	Reactionary? Are we fascists? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u165	... opted for progressive policies, and also did not give in to a revolutionary way, opted for a reformist way. In view of the European and international challenges which are recognised in the Government Programme, I would like Mr Prime Minister to be able to convey to us his perspective on the importance that political stability has, has and will have in the future in order to meet and honour commitments with Portuguese society and to continue to affirm, in international life, a State that today prestigious us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u166	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u167	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, in the previous legislation it was possible to build a new Health Bases Act. I am glad that the Left Block has launched this debate, although the Left Block has persisted in this debate, even when the PS retreats. Today, we have a new Health Bases Law and, therefore, the new Legislation must be that of the realization of this Law. It happens that by reading the Government Programme, more is done by omissions than by realisations. I give an example: the Basics Act says that new legislation must be produced for the centrality of public management, but the Government Programme does not commit itself to the revision of the current SNS Statute ; the Basics Act says that investment in the SNS is due to a multiannual plan, but the Government Programme does not commit itself to this multiannual investment plan; the Basics Act says that the State should ensure the necessary resources for the SNS, but the Government Programme does not commit to budgetary targets or professional recruitment targets. Where there is no omission, there must be commitment to this next legislation. The Left Block obviously assumes this commitment to the SNS and assumes that it will bring to this Assembly of the Republic all the initiatives necessary to implement the new Basic Law. But the question posed in this first debate is whether the government is committed to this commitment, whether it is committed to a new SNS Statute, whether it is committed to a multi-annual investment plan, whether it is committed to more professionals with decent careers. So instead of spending 260 million euros with extraordinary hours, we would use this money to hire 7000 professionals for the SNS; instead of spending 100 million euros on jobs, we would use this money to build careers worthy of professionals; and instead of channeling billions of euros for private people, we would use that money to invest in the SNS. The Block assumes that commitment. And the question I put, not only for today's debate but for the whole of the Parliament, is the following: is the government also committed to the SNS? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u168	Mr Prime Minister has the floor to answer this set of questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. First of all, Mr Adam Silva, yes, it is essential to listen to people, both for what they have to say about evil and for criticism, and also for what they have to say about good. And that doesn't cost me or surprise: I've been President of the House for eight years and anyone who's been autarch knows that the essential thing in the life of an author is knowing how to be on the street, how to hear people and record what they have to say to him. We don't always hear nice things. But do you know what makes anyone just want to hear nice things? It does not come to the government because, as you know, whoever is in the government does not only hear pleasant things, it also hears what people say it is necessary to do and we have to find answers to do what is really missing to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that something that is absolutely unacceptable is the response time we have had in relation to pension applications. As you know, deconcentration measures have been adopted for the treatment of services. There has been a reinforcement in the services and there are improvements, but the problem is about to be solved and we need to know in what circumstances in particular. We have even moved forward—as I have already announced here—with a provisional settlement of the pension amount depending on the simulator, the problem is that the simulator does not apply to all people. I am not going to be here to report a specific case, but in one of the cases in which I was asked on the street, and it was, in fact, very visible on television, I was able to verify in particular what happened: these are - these situations - and the honourable Member, as you have already been Secretary of State of the sector, well knows the complexity of the information systems - in which there were discounts for various systems in Portugal and there were periods of discounts outside Portugal and, often, these delays are not due to our services but to the difficulty of getting answers and information from countries where people were emigranted. So it is a serious problem for which we must find answers. And what I want to say here — and I said this precisely in the taking over of the government — is that I have not forgotten what I have heard, nor have I forgotten what I have learned in the eight years in which I was President of the House. There are others who have forgotten, but I don't. So I'll keep paying attention. Several Mrs. Members have raised a question that has to do with fiscal justice and progressiveness. The Government's programme is very clear on this subject, especially with regard to the need to assess the results of the committee that has made the evaluation of the efficiency of the various tax benefits that the country has, and is committed to making progress in terms of inclusiveness. And that's what we're going to do, step by step, with the proper sustainability throughout this legislature. And this work, which some see as meaning in advance an increase in taxation, is a work that we have to do with the necessary balance, so as not to sacrifice tax justice and the goals that the country has to pursue and are absolutely essential. If we want to continue to grow, we must maintain an effort for the capitalisation of our companies, in order to reduce their dependence on the banking system and continue to have greater and more sustained investment in the dynamisation of our economy. With regard to renting, for the examples I have heard from both sides of the bench, what we have is a framework of incentives for the adoption of appropriate behaviors and we need to have a picture of disincentives for achieving results that we consider undesirable. The case of the lease is quite obvious. There may even be a total exemption from taxation if houses are placed under affordable lease arrangements or if there is, for example, a commitment on the sustainability of lease contracts. This is an incentive we give for the adequacy of the lease market to the needs. Indeed, there are penalties too. Penalties are provided for, for example, within IMI (municipal property tax) — for fires which continue to be artificially withdrawn from the market, artificially reducing supply — because the correct incentive must be given for all fires to be placed on the market to increase the supply. It is precisely in this balance that we must be able to move forward along this legislature. in the same way, the Government Programme considers the need for an evaluation of the current regulatory framework for banking fees, ensuring that they correspond to services that are effectively provided to customers. Mr António Filipe was the first to raise the issue of special careers. I have said and repeated that we cannot look at income policy as being exclusively a public administration income policy and much less we can look at public administration focusing exclusively on their special careers. We must look at the Public Administration as a whole and with the focus focused on the citizen and on the service we provide him. Therefore, there are not only special careers, there are also general careers and I refer, in particular, to senior civil service technicians, for whom we have to have an effective look and a concrete response in this legislation. in this sense, we have already opened a competition for the admission of 1000 new superior technicians to the Public Administration, a great rejuvenation effort, which is absolutely necessary to develop not only for the quality of the service, but also to respond structurally to the difficulties of ADSE. And we must also respond to the level of remuneration that our senior technicians today have, compared to what is offered in the private sector. That is an answer we have to give. But we have to look at the careers in three perspectives. First, it is necessary to strengthen contracts, since there are 11 000 new professionals in the National Health Service and we know that it is not enough; during the last legislature, we had 2216 admissions to the Republican National Guard, 1631 admissions to the Public Safety Police and we know that there are still shortcomings. Secondly, we must have the ability to respond to the normalization of the life of the Public Administration, ensuring that all professionals update their incomes annually. Thirdly, we must respond to one of the most important measures adopted in the last Parliament, which is to put an end to the freezing of careers and ensure that everyone has a career perspective. Mr, in 2020, if we have done nothing more, only because of the automatic effect of the legislation already adopted on progress and promotions will we have an increase in expenditure of EUR 527 million. In other words, EUR 527 million is what we have already guaranteed as an increase in expenditure automatically through progressions and promotions. In addition to ensuring what is already guaranteed, in order to avoid setbacks, we must respond to new staff needs, respond to the needs of career development, which has been forgotten for years and has never been valued, and respond to the expectations that exist in special careers. But everything has to be done with the necessary balance, because the 'true accounts' — the term that Mr António Filipe used to make an exchange — are also the right accounts that we have to answer to the Portuguese people, so that, with the taxes they pay, we can provide a better and better service, so that the taxes they pay do not have to be increased, so that the savings we have today with the interest in debt can continue to exist and so that we can invest more where it is necessary. The 'true accounts' are all this and these are the right accounts that we have to give to the Portuguese. Mrs Bebiana Cunha raised a question about housing. I would like to tell you that 24 % of the real estate that has so far entered the affordable income scheme has incomes less than 500 € per month. It is a new programme that requires a regular evaluation and needs to be complemented by the increase in public supply, as I said in my speech, in which I am committed, on the part of the State alone, to making 10 000 fires available until the end of the Legislature for affordable rent. When we look at careers and professionals, what is in the Government's Teachers' Programme is something that is fundamental and the unions must take up once and for all availability to discuss. We have to start normalizing that career in the same way as other careers. It is unacceptable, and it is not justified, that that is the only career in which, for years and years on end, there has been no fixation in schools, with disadvantages for itself, for the stability of the school, for the stability of the beginning of the school year and for the improvement of the quality of teaching. We have to change because there is no reason for this to be the only career in which, for much of our lives, people from four to four years old have to be subject to school change. As in other Public Administration careers, people have to have stability in their lives, because this contributes significantly to improving the quality of the service we provide. Nor can we ignore — as the Government programme does not ignore — that it is necessary to respond to specific needs, particularly in the Lisbon area and in the Algarve region, such as the increased cost of accommodation. That is what is envisaged in the housing programme, and therefore we must find an answer. Mr Cristovão Norte will certainly find that economic growth is not decreed with a magic wand. It is already progress, for it has passed from the stage in which it feared that we would call the devil to now have the hope that we can generate a miracle. Look, not so much to the sea, not so much to the earth. But we will continue to work step by step. I know your speech was out of date with my, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u170	But it is not out of date with the Government Programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u171	...I know that I wrote it at home without knowing my own and, therefore, for the next one will certainly have a new opportunity to be able to be in line with what I said about the new ambition we have to have in order to grow more and to have at least a decade of continuous and sustained convergence with the European Union. Mr President, I would like to say the following: governments never have free hands, because in democracy no one rules with free hands. We have, fortunately, independent social communication and that scrutinizes, day by day, our activity. Fortunately, we have an independent justice system that guarantees that no one is above the law. And, I hope, we have an active, lively, creative opposition, full of ideas, to force us to rule more and better every day. Fortunately, we have the social communication and the justice system and we will wait for the opposition to reorganize and may also correspond to its function. But, Mr, there is one thing I can assure you: you must update the parliamentary arithmetic. The PS, in comparison with the right, is not dependent on anything, the right is that whenever you want in this House of the Republic to defeat the Socialist Party, you will have to add to all your votes—from your vote to that of Mr André Ventura—the votes of the PAN plus the votes of the whole left. Good luck, if you really want to compromise the governance of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what I have just mentioned, in fact, allows me to answer the question put by Mr José Luís Carneiro on the importance of political stability. It is very important for the lives of the Portuguese and for the lives of our economy and our businesses. It is political stability which today distinguishes us internationally and strengthens our international credibility. Just compare how we grew and how we grew Spain, what our interest rate was and what the interest rate of Spain is and I can assure you that much of this difference is explained by the fact that we are a country in which we have ensured political stability for four years. And more: we are a country that has all the conditions to continue to guarantee further four years of political stability to do what is needed, in particular, Mr Moses Ferreira, what is written with all clarity, black and white, in our Government Programme. And we will even regulate the Health Bases Act, because the party that created the National Health Service will certainly not be the party that will weaken the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u172	Let's move on to the requests for clarification from the last Members. Member States. To that end, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u173	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I bring here three questions that arise with problems that require an urgent response. These are three questions related to each other because they relate to the rights which our Constitution enshrines. The first concerns support for the arts. The Government insists on the same error in 2018 and leaves out of the support dozens of eligible artistic creation structures. Again, it opts for the devaluation of the work done by these structures, reducing the role of culture in the development of the country. To avoid suspension and/or closure of the activity of artistic creation structures, when many have already reported having no other solution, the CFP proposes that all applications be supported and that the current model of support for the arts be revised, introducing a non-competitive aspect and strengthening funding to support all applications. Will the Government follow these proposals to ensure the continuation of artistic creation? The second question, Prime Minister, is about housing. In order to solve the problem of access to housing, which is aggravated, it is necessary: to quickly place public houses for rent under supported and conditioned income, instead of continuing to alienate public property; to give stability to tenants, to stop the evictions and to extinguish the "dispatch counter"; and to ensure the impermenability of their own and permanent housing to prevent the bank or real estate funds from dumping their families. All of these are measures that the Government must take, without transferring responsibilities to the authorities, including that referred to herein by the Prime Minister for the re-housing of the 26 000 families already identified. What are you gonna do? Will it converge with these proposals and fulfil the constitutional responsibilities in guaranteeing the right to housing? The third question has to do with the freeness of health care. In order to reduce the high costs of families with health care, it is necessary to eliminate barriers to access to health such as moderate rates; ensure the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients; and move on to the free supply of medicines to citizens over 65 years of age, chronic patients and families with economic shortage. What position will you take with regard to these proposals? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u174	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u175	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, tomorrow we will end the debate on this Government Programme, there will be a national strike on the workers of the call centres. It is a sector where more than 100 000 people work, where, in the last three years, they tripled profits, but where, in the same period, the average wage has decreased. And he went down, among other reasons, because of the outsourcing. Who today works for MEO, for US or for Vodafone, never has a link with the company in which he works, but, yes, with an intermediary. It is more than 30 outsourcing companies that are providing workers to call centers. In the same room, in the same call center, there are workers with different wages and with different conditions. Outsourcing is currently one of the most aggressive and intense pathways of precariousness. Therefore, it seems that outsourcing and the call centers sector itself do not deserve a single reference in the Government Programme. It is that, if we want to fight precariousness, we really have to move on. Another topic already discussed here, but also lacking references in the Government Programme, is PREVPAP, a programme that we have drawn together and which has already allowed 30 000 situations of precarious workers to be regularized. Now, this programme is not over. There are thousands of workers who now await not only the technical decisions of the evaluation committees but the political decision of the new government on their regularization. Mr Prime Minister, how will the pending problem of IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), RTP, technicians in schools and State Laboratories be solved? What does this new government want to do about this programme that we drew together in the previous Parliament? What are the commitments, what is the timetable and what are the targets for PREVPAP? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u176	It is now the time of Mrs Maria Begonha of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u177	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do this first intervention in the Assembly of the Republic taking the opportunity to speak to the Government on a topic that is central to the Portuguese people, for the whole Portuguese society, but above all, and more decisively, for the younger generations, which is the emancipation of young Portuguese people. The last four years have regained ambition in skills, employment, housing and mobility, that is, in the four fundamental axes that better define young emancipation. this ambition resulted in a decline of young unemployment to historical levels, the existence of fewer precarious contracts, the launch of a new generation of housing policies, better investment in public school and more investment in higher education and also the establishment of a new paradigm in mobility policies that promoted fairer and wider access to public transport. But to renew and strengthen ambition in emancipation policies is urgent and priority. And more than setting a priority, choices need to be made. It is true that the Socialist Party places all its commitment and political agenda at the service of living better in Portugal. To live better in Portugal as a young person, as a student and as a young worker. And it is also true that the government has already made its choice, because we have a Government programme that commits itself to ways and solutions for the most essential, namely: to combat inequalities that impede life paths, strengthening the freedom of choice and the freedom of all young people to exercise their fundamental rights and aspirations. The freedom to qualify, with full awareness that we have graduates, teachers and doctors at least and barriers to access to education and social action. The freedom to choose where we live, only to leave the country by choice and not by obligation, but also the freedom to stay and return to the country, because the government will work so that it is worth investing in our qualifications, in our careers and in our lives, in our country. The freedom to take place at work, as well as to reconcile personal or academic life with professional life. It is that the most job has to correspond to better work, with more rights, without precariousness and with a fairer wage. And let me point out here that Mr Prime Minister has already identified the need to promote an agreement on income policy that values the wages of the younger and, in particular, of the most qualified, in a country which, unfortunately, has already been more permissive and conformed to wage injustice and which now has a programme that fights overwage and unfair wage disparities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The freedom still to have decent housing. Today, in 2019, only the strong and ambitious offer of public housing in the next four years can allow you to advance the expansion of affordable income for Portuguese youth, thus fulfilling the Constitution. And let me also highlight students who do not pay one but two tips at the cost of housing because they are affected by the lack of student residences, which the Government Programme also responds, because the next four years will have to be of complete compliance and commitment to increased student housing. For all this, Mr Prime Minister, because these are some of the many priorities for responding to the difficult challenges of young Portuguese people, who are the subject of commitment in the Government Programme, the question I put to you is whether you are prepared to take up young emancipation as a right, while young, and not a privilege. And I ask you whether, following the commitments made in the Government Programme, Portuguese youth will be able to say in 2023 that they live better than in 2019, as they already live in 2019, better than in 2015, the last year in which a bad right of memory ruled this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u178	To request clarification, Mrs Beatriz Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying that I was pleased to hear Mr Prime Minister reaffirming the commitment expressed in the Government Programme to deepen the principle of soil law in the nationality regime. However, progress, although important, is related to the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles and does not solve the political problem that will only be overcome by the implementation of concrete measures. It is that the essential thing is not to be resolved with simple administrative changes; it is really necessary to change the law. Despite claiming that Portugal is a proudly open country to the world, to whom it wants to live in Portugal, the Government Programme continues not to include any proposal to amend the law of nationality which enshrines the principle of soil law. It's a hard-to-understand omission. As you know, the Left Block presented on the first day of this legislation a bill that aims to amend the law of nationality in order to ensure the allocation of Portuguese nationality to all persons born in Portugal, regardless of the nationality and legal status of their parents. Whoever is born in our country has to be Portuguese. We have already tabled this proposal in the past and we do so again, because we cannot accept an unfair and discriminatory law, which sends thousands of people to the condition of foreigners in their own country, just because they are children and daughters of immigrants. It is true that, in recent years, there have been changes that represent an improvement in relation to the previous legal framework. But many people still have no right to be Portuguese, despite this being their country, from here they have been born, from here they live and contribute to the wealth of the country with their work and their taxes. We welcome your announcement, which is available to overcome bureaucratic problems. As I told you, the revision of the law of nationality consists of a bill that the Bloc has already presented in this legislature and is a path that must be made as soon as possible. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is when we can have a law of nationality which guarantees in an unequivocal way that those who are born in Portugal are Portuguese, thus honouring the commitment to deepen the right of soil which they have taken into their Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u180	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Santos, I know that all the problems are urgent, but unfortunately it is not possible to respond to all of them and to everyone immediately. Therefore, we must have priorities and a trajectory to solve the problems throughout the legislature. I draw the attention to the fact that, with regard to the support for the arts, and with regard to the last biannual invitation to tender, the total amount now available was EUR 18, EUR 7 million, which represents an increase of 17 % compared to the increase in the previous competition, and that between 2015 and 2019 public support for the arts as a whole increased by 83 %. It is important not to forget that, in addition to this two-year competition, there is a four-year competition, and therefore, in addition to the 102 entities now supported, we must take account of those already supported under the four-year competition, which are 186. Now, there is one thing that we are sure about: if it is true that we have to increase money and invest in support of the arts, as we have been doing, it is also true that, if we maintain a competition scheme, a competition means that there is no guarantee that all those who present have the right to be supported. I also draw attention to the fact that, with regard to the accepted applications, there was an increase of 46 % of the entities considered eligible and there was an effective increase in the number of entities that are supported and, above all, there was a significant increase in the support they received. There are entities that have remained unsupported, it is true. When we have an open competition for the admission of 1000 senior technicians in the Public Administration and everyone says that 1000 senior technicians is a huge advance, it must be taken into account that there are 18 000 candidates for these 1000 vacancies, which means that, if all are filled, there are 17 000 candidates who will not be awarded. We must therefore opt: either there is a tendering procedure or there is no tendering procedure. We cannot, in each competition, respond to the failure to allocate the support with budgetary reinforcement, but we must every year ensure budgetary strengthening on the basis of the country's capabilities, of the ambition that we have to have in the area of culture there is a growth above the growth we have had in all other sectors, with a very clear goal set out in this Government Programme, which is to reach 2 % of the State budget for the culture sector. As far as housing is concerned, as I said here, we have to increase public supply. In fact, I have a very concrete objective on the part of the State alone: more than 10 000 fires for affordable leases, precisely with the use of much of the state's under-utilized heritage and which can be redirected. There are already several examples of this. I have now been reminded of the rehabilitation of the old building of the Ministry of Education for university residence; finally the use of the closed decades Hospital Miguel Bombarda for an affordable lease program; the urbanization, which we have been waiting for years, of land in Monte de Caparica for a program of 3,500 fires to be developed, with root construction in Almada, as well as other examples that could give it. Fortunately, we have a lot of heritage that we can and must put on the market to increase the supply. Finally, in relation to health and the trajectory of moderate rates, the Government Program also undertakes a commitment, in fact, to the Health Bases Act, to progressively exempt users from health rates in primary health care and in the different treatments prescribed by the units of the National Health Service or the Health Line 24. Mr. José Soeiro is right. We must look at the new forms of work and effectively look at the proper monitoring of the different files and abuses of the legal framework. This is not necessarily about getting involved in the law, but about strengthening the monitoring capacity. Monitoring in the call centers is an example. Unfortunately, he's not the only one. With regard to PREVPAP, the answer is very simple: it is to continue the work we started in the previous legislature, which has to be continued and must be completed. Before replying to Mrs Maria Begonha, I wanted to reaffirm to Mrs Beatriz Dias what I had just had the opportunity to answer. In 2006 we made a historic break with our fundamental criterion of attribution of the law of nationality. For years, our criterion was that of jus sanguinis, that is, the son of a Portuguese is Portuguese. This was explained, of course, in a country whose experience for decades, centuries, in migration was starting and the priority was to ensure that the son of a Portuguese born in the United States, Venezuela, South Africa, had the right to be Portuguese. The introduction of jus soli at that time was a deep rupture with those that were the traditional basis of our nationality law. Experience has told us that it has made sense. The connection and conjugation that we have made between the allocation of the right to nationality to children born in Portugal and the regularization, stabilization and even the right to access to nationality to their parents, even if they were not born in Portugal, has been a very important path towards inclusion. We need to evaluate well what we want and not open the portal that we don't want. It is not enough to make a scale in Portugal so that anyone born in Portugal is Portuguese. There has to be a sufficient link with national territory and it is also necessary to respect the wishes of parents whether or not they want their son to be Portuguese, because we do not have to impose nationality as a single criterion or a single form of inclusion in Portuguese society. Those who are born in Portugal may also have the right not to want to be Portuguese and we must respect that right. The commitment we have made is to assess correctly the problems that exist, as a result of bureaucratic obstacles, the result of a lack of interpretation of the law or what it requires, or will perhaps require an effective change of the legislative framework. But above all, there is a cultural paradigm that we need to change in our administration, so it is very important that one of the proposals contained in the Government Programme is the effective separation within our Foreign and Border Service of its own police missions from those which are the administrative functions that are improperly assigned to them. Security forces have a fundamental function and should not be distracted from its function. There are other functions of the State that are not reduced to security, and administrative functions must be removed from the security forces so that they can concentrate on what they effectively have to do. I would like to end by answering Mrs Maria Begonha, who referred to a topic which is now central to Portuguese society. I have mentioned many times, I have mentioned it again in taking possession, I have mentioned it here again, and I will repeat as many times as necessary: the country has the opportunity to benefit from a generation with which for the first time in all our history, at least since the 15th century, we approach the best levels of qualification of the European Union. We can't waste this generation. This generation requires a strengthened and clear trust from what can indeed be expected of its future and must have the freedom, but also the confidence, to build its future here, with the expectation that it can be fully realized from both a personal or a professional perspective. This implies an integrated response. It involves effectively ensuring the fight against school failure and early school dropout. It implies ensuring that anyone who wants to enter higher education does not find an economic barrier that prevents him from accessing it. Today, it is not enough to set a maximum tip, it is even necessary to guarantee accommodation for those who want to attend higher education. Today, it is more than a tip that is requested by a part of the house or by a room for those who are displaced from their family to have access to higher education. It is essential to ensure the effective fulfilment of this fundamental change which entered into force on 1 October, which ended with the possibility of using as a basis for future contracts the fact that young people are looking for the first job, as if they were young, necessarily entailed a precarious situation. It is obviously necessary to respond, as we have challenged the social partners to respond, with fair and appropriate treatment at the level of qualification for qualified young people seeking employment. I have said, and I repeat, to companies that, if they want to continue to be competitive to export, they must become competitive to hire, because our development model is no longer that of the low wage, but that is what is based on knowledge as the engine of our development. Investing in knowledge is not just investing in more scientific research, it is not just investing in the transfer of knowledge through technological centres or interface centers. The best way to transfer knowledge is even to hire those who leave higher education institutions, vocational training courses, vocational training centres with more qualification, to improve the productivity of companies and also to be entitled to full professional achievement, with fair and adequate remuneration at their level of qualification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we must also ensure, for the effective right to young emancipation, not only access to quality employment but also accessible housing. What is happening today in the lease market is the denial of what must be a living and dynamic lease market. We all know the history of the 'perfect storm', of what have been decades of administrative freezing of incomes, of what was the disaster of wild and unregulated liberalisation of the income law, of what has been, and has been, the impact of our economy's growth and what has also been the impact, not only in Portugal but in all cities and in all developed countries, on the negative side of a very continuous cycle of low interest rates that have redirected investment to shelter on the real estate market. It's the perfect storm! But for this perfect storm we must also have the right answer. This implies both the incentive for the private to increase the affordable rental park, or the increase of the public supply itself, whether of the municipalities or of the state. That is why we assume concrete goals and objectives for this legislature. Finally, it is necessary to look at the demographic challenge with the willingness to adopt measures that allow us to reverse the dynamics that we have, surely responding to the older ones and also to the new generations, responding, above all, to a fact that all studies indicate and that we have to ask ourselves: is that today, families do not have the freedom to have the children they really want, and there is a huge difference between the desired fertility and effective fertility. We must guarantee to the new families the freedom to have the children they wish and this implies housing, implies wage income and also implies other ways of improving the income available beyond wages. It means, in fact, we have a network of foster care that meets the actual needs. We really need to have a universal preschool education. We need to have greater conditions of support for families in order to be able to access day care centres and we must have a fiscal policy that is not the right auction that proposes, the reduction of taxes for all, but which directs our capacity for tax spending to support what must be supported, for example, by increasing tax deductions based on the number of children that each young family really wants to have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with all these measures that we must have the ability to get young people to listen to us and to believe that it is right here, with us in Portugal, that they have the great opportunity to achieve themselves fully from a personal and professional point of view. We want them and we don't send them to emigrate. to those who emigrated we say they are welcome to return. To everyone here, what we want is to build a society of the future, a society that is the future of their own lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u183	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u184	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau about the orientation of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u185	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very sorry to have to address you and ask you to intervene, but in fact Mr Telmo Correia asked very specific questions to Mr. Prime Minister on euthanasia, on security forces and on the SEF (Foreign and Border Service ) that have not been answered. I would like to thank Mr President for guiding Mr. Prime Minister to give an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt. You know what Parliament's rules of operation are in the discussions with the Prime Minister. Each Member is free to ask the questions he understands and the Prime Minister is free to answer or not and all those who draw the conclusions are those who are attending the debates. There's no way to force anyone to talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u188	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u190	Mr President, since Mr Prime Minister said that he responded to Parliament, he asked only Mr President, as President of Parliament and representative of all Members, to explain to Mr Prime Minister that Parliament is not only left-wing benches! It's all us and the Portuguese who chose us! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u191	Madam Member, the role of the President of Parliament is not to explain to anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[We will interrupt the work, which will start at 15 and 30 minutes with agenda item two, the debate itself of the XXII Constitutional Government programme.]] [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]] Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's get back to work. [[It was 15 hours and 34 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. Before we move on to item 2 of the agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us an account of an amendment to the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of elected Members, which lacks a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u192	Mr President, very late for everyone. I must realise that there was a lapse in the indication of the non-elected candidate replacing the elected deputy João Veloso da Silva Torres, so it was necessary to re-convene the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members. Thus, the deputy of the electoral circle of Porto João Veloso da Silva Torres is replaced by Eduardo Miguel Sabino Guedes Barroco de Melo. in this context, examined the elements available, and with the inclusion of the correction, the Commission was of the opinion that the powers of the replacement Member should be judged as being verified and thus legitimized to replace them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u193	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this amendment to the report and give an opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will therefore enter the debate period of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão, who was also elected Vice-President, has the floor, and I therefore welcome it as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u194	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: We have all heard the presentation by the Prime Minister of the Government's programme for the coming years. And there is no other way of saying: what we have is that everything sounds the same! It sounds the same in optimism and confidence in the future. It sounds the same in the absence of a message of stability from this minority government. It sounds the same in lack of ability and competence. And the worst of all is that they sound false the expectations that it creates in Portuguese. The only real thing, Mr. Prime Minister, is that you rule only so as not to lose power. And this is not only true as is the confirmation of what you have done over the past four years, in which you sat in that chair. But let's go somewhere. It sounds like that optimism and trust in the future. Mr Prime Minister wants to pass the idea that the world can collapse, but we can rest because we will not be hit by any crisis, we will be immune to the negative impacts of a recession and we will be a sort of oasis, thanks to the good crafts of its governance, the past and the future. We all know that's not true. He could even get close to it, but he is not, because his former government did not know how to look after the future. He looked only at the present, for the short term, for immediate gain. It repeats that Portugal has grown above the European average, but forgets that this happens because the large economies have had a mediocre behavior, and it is certain that a small economy like ours, compared to the strongest, is increasingly vulnerable to crises. His Government did not take advantage of the situation it had benefited from in preparing Portugal for a less favourable and demanding economic cycle. He did not make the necessary reforms to strengthen our economy. He just tried to distribute it without looking at tomorrow. He's ruined opportunities. He learned a deficit near zero and at the same time left the public services at risk and almost everything was owed to him. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister "has pushed the belly" and we will be here to receive the invoice, heavier and harder. Unfortunately, the confidence that Mr. Prime Minister has not covered for the future in the past four years, in which you have been in charge of the country's governance. It is not credible, nor for those who needed the services of the State and the State failed it, nor for those who sold to the State and the State did not pay it. It's only in trust who's a good person. It is only a good person who pays his debts and honours his commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u196	And, curiously, in your Government Programme, there is no word on payment to suppliers. You didn't make the state a good person. It sounds the same as the message of stability that ensures you have to rule in the coming years. Where is there stability in a minority government, which failed to obtain the necessary prior and express support from the parties that elected as their preferred partners? Where is there stability in a minority government, which will sail in view, with a calculator always in hand—and so many times the Prime Minister here spoke of the calculator—to see if he adds the votes necessary to approve his measures? Will the Prime Minister judge that his former sworn partners, but now only muted, will he be satisfied with the left handovers that he has dusted in his Government's programme? I don't think so. They won't get the crumbs that yielded here and there in the way of major strategic guidelines. Where there is stability in a minority government, which has a Prime Minister who will not hesitate to provoke a political crisis—as he has done before, with the question of teachers—if that appears to be politically useful and advantageous, even if it is not for the country? You will see whether there are swamps or not on your way, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] Where there is stability in a minority government, which has a culture of 'I want, I can and I command', but has never shown courage or openness to carry out real reforms in areas such as the economy, social security or the political system, and has now made it clear that it has no intention, even, to carry out such structural themes as these? That is why it also sounds like this government's ability to implement the policies that the country needs. Quantity is not synonymous with quality. The idea remains that Mr. Prime Minister wanted to compensate or mislead the obvious lack of character and ambition of his government, apparently semiovo, with a profound and exuberant number of ministers and State Secretaries, as if it were more necessarily better. It's not. Moreover, it is unfortunate that we are faced with a government programme that is frankly short for a government that is too long. It is a Programme in which no minister or secretary of state has been held or found, such is the professionalism and commitment of these rulers to the country and the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u197	These rulers agreed to take custody without proposing a measure, said 'yes' without knowing a line of the Programme that they would have to comply with, signed a blank check and put their supposed four years of exercise of functions in the hands of a thinker or other head.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u199	This way it is seen and confirmed that this will be a government to manage, not to govern. As far as the consequences are concerned, it will be a matter of time — even I would say very little — until the country realizes that an Executive with 70 rulers, whose functions and competences, in many cases, will be fatally overshadowed by each other, is above all a factor of entropy, immobility and governmental instability that the country did not need. For all this, it sounds like the false expectations Mr. Prime Minister creates in people. And that's the most serious thing, because the Portuguese deserve better and better. A Government Programme should not be the same repository of vague and inconsequential promises as an electoral programme. It has to base the options taken, it has to explain the path that will be followed, it has to mobilize the country for growth and progress. None of this can be seen here! Is it important for Portuguese workers to increase the minimum wage, which remains below the European average? Of course, yes and, fortunately, today, no one answers it anymore. But first, it is necessary to create the conditions for the economy to be able to guarantee not only the increase in the minimum wage, but also the rise in the average level of pay for Portuguese work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u201	Otherwise, we risk having a country that is governed by the bottle of the minimum wage. That's not what PSD wants and that's not what Portuguese want. This programme brings us a handful of nothing. In health, does not pay suppliers, does not reduce SNS debt, does not invest in more and better hospitals. It just says what it doesn't do, that it's more public-private partnerships contracts, not for any logical reason or thinking about what's best for the country, but because it can come to give, here and there, to the left. If, in July, at the time of the adoption of the Health Bases Act, the PS and the Government still did not want to assume the end of the PPPs, because it was allegedly not clear that this represented the best for the national interest, now in the Government Programme, they seem to be certain of the way forward. It is as clear as water: geriatrics may not have a 2.0 edition, but the ideology that has come back is that of geriatrics. [[PSD applause.]] And it is this reality that we must not fail to denounce! The second Government of António Costa cannot be a reformed version of the previous in its practices. The situation and circumstances are different and Mr. Prime Minister does not now inherit what good inherited in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u202	The debt, the deficit...!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u203	There is no inheritance and there will be no apology! The second Government of Antonio Costa cannot repeat serious and despicable situations such as those involving the sad and symbolic case of Tancos. We will not forget Tanks, Prime Minister. The truth, however uncomfortable it is and no matter who bothers, will have to be known. We'll be here, Prime Minister, so you can't let me put this thing in the drawer. The second Government of António Costa cannot accept that the situation of children with cancer problems being treated in containers for longer. On two days of the election, Mr. Prime Minister went to St. John to see the work of the new pediatric wing. It was a number for the electorate to see. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Why don't you go there now, Prime Minister? Since October 6th, it's all stopped. The second Government of António Costa cannot allow there to be, at the gates of Lisbon and in a highly inhabited area, a hospital, Garcia de Orta, without pediatric urgency, which cannot fill vacancies, which cannot attract professionals. Does this Government Programme bring measures that attract health professionals to the national health system? Not a move, Prime Minister. Not a move! He owes almost everyone and doesn't satisfy anyone. It is no more than a brick house built on paper foundations, at the expense of Portuguese and institutions. The second Government of António Costa cannot fail to assume responsibility for the continuing failure of measures such as the Regressar Programme, which aimed to bring back the Portuguese who left the country at the time of the Troika. During its four years, the Socialist Government not only failed to attract the Portuguese back, as it did not even prevent them from leaving. There were at least 350 000 Portuguese who left the country during the period of the Socialist Government. As for the famous Regressar Program, the flag enthusiastically sparked by the Prime Minister himself, only 208 people presented applications and only 37 people received support to effectively return. If there is one responsible for this failure, it is Mr. Prime Minister. The second Government of António Costa cannot multiply virtual promises in railway plans which, it is known in advance, will not be made in 4 years, not in 8 years, nor in 20 years. It is not in the plans that these plans are more than that: a set of intentions, phrases that fill a hollow and non-substantial programme. The government says the final result is either, but it forgets to say how it intends to get there. It is this action programme that needs to be presented because it is this action programme that must be borne by Members of the Assembly of the Republic. We know that the government likes to play jokes. He realizes he rules the country. Be aware that you think first in Portuguese. He realises that he wants a serious discussion about the Government's programme in the Assembly of the Republic. But, actually, he doesn't want any of this. He wants to continue to fake glory times while applying encapsulated austerity. He wants to continue to pretend eras of growth and progress while sacrificing investment and public services. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, you are in front of a retweeted government and not a new one. Politically, you are alone in front of the Portuguese, to whom you have promised so much in recent times in various areas. The time has come to do so, and of course we must start by carrying out exactly what we have promised and not done in your first government. in this bench, here we will be, as always, vigilant, but constructive, without dogmatism and with a spirit of dialogue and openness to relevant state issues, contributing with proposals and ideas so that Portugal and the Portuguese finally can converge with the most competitive countries of the European Union, which clearly has not happened. Mr Prime Minister — and I shall finish — is not enough to have a government to say that it governs! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u204	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u205	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your re-election, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular those who begin their term of office for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other government members, Mr Fernando Negrão, are curious that you have started your speech by saying that everything sounds the same. Interestingly, what « everything sounds the same » is the intervention that the PSD brings in the debate of the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look at the intervention, if we hear the intervention given here four years ago by Mr Luís Montenegro, I would stress that what we could expect were doubts about the bill of a debt that is going to grow, a deficit that is not perceived how it will not increase, the bill of withdrawing rather than attracting investment. Four years later, the PSD seems to have learned nothing from what happened in the country for four years. For four years, we talked about the arrival of the devil, of the end, of the disqualification that would represent the governance of the PS and its partners on the left. But here we are, four years later, with a majority reinforced by what the Portuguese recognise as work done and with the effective demonstration that a different direction is possible and that this different direction will be maintained with the renewal, in a new legislature, of priorities, objectives, of the deepening of the goals that, for four years, the PSD and the right have insisted on not wanting to recognize. Optimism and trust, Mr. Deputies say, are negative things. No, it's positive. That was what helped the growth of the economy, it was what helped the country turn the page and today the Portuguese thank the solution that, for four years, presided over the country's destinations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also curious to verify the contradiction of the statements made to us. at the same time that says that we will not be immune to crises that may occur, look now at the large economies that, yes, have grown below and have had a mediocre growth and that, curiously, Portugal does not have a mediocre growth when the large economies have, also says that this, in some way, is a negative factor, that we should not take into account nor value as a demonstration that there is solidity in public accounts, in the reduction of debt and our ability to strengthen our response. More: the honourable Member said that it had been distributed without criteria, that what was retirement pension income, trust in growth, had no criterion and that there was only one breakdown for four years. Mr President, for a party which so much places on the table the need for structural reforms, it is curious to forget that we have ensured, during these four years, sustainability in social security for the next 20 years;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that a Basics Act of Structural Housing was approved for the country's destinations; that the Health Bases Act was reviewed, reformed with the majority that, on the left, was able to produce changes; that the social passes returned income added to the Portuguese pockets and relieved the budgets of families and that in income policy, more than punctual options, we had options that structure a destination and strategic options for the country. The honourable Member also refers to the terrible departure of people from the country, masking numbers and realizing that he does not know what is real about the numbers of emigration, because, indeed, what we had every year was fewer people leaving.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u206	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u207	His sum of the numbers hides the reality, which is that every year there are fewer people to emigrate, first,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and, more than 65 % to 70 % of people leaving return less than one year after the date they left, allowing the maintenance of an increasingly positive migration balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I want to ask you a number of questions, and I'm going to be quick. We have waited so far, we are waiting to know what the PSD thinks about the XXII Constitutional Government Programme...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u209	...and we don't know yet. [[PSD protests.]] What is the PSD position on the minimum wage? What is the position of the PSD on environmental matters and on changing deadlines for decarbonisation?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u210	None!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u211	What is the PSD’s position on the necessary investment in housing? What is the PSD's position on progression in the IRS and review of steps?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u212	None!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u213	What is the PSD position on day care centers and the complement for day care facilities? What is the PSD's position on public investment, which is programmed in the Government Programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u214	They didn't even read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u215	What is the PSD position on territorial cohesion? As long as you have so far, I give you the opportunity to respond to the country, because the country wants to know what role the opposition wants to play. The country needs and wants an opposition as an alternative, a strong opposition and an opposition that effectively performs its role. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The government has done its part. Please do yours, too! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with this more flexible method, which is that of time overstepping. As long as it is compensated in the overall time of the debate, it will not be for me to be problematic. In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u217	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, asked me a number of questions. It's funny you asked me so many questions. Is she expecting me to answer? [[PS protests.]] ... when the example we have here is that of Mr Rui Rio having asked four questions to Mr. Prime Minister and that he has not answered a single, indeed, usual practice of Mr. Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I learned something in the 15-year debates with Mr. Prime Minister, who is not to answer. But I am going to tell you one thing, Mr Delgado Alves: the sectoral ministers are going to intervene and at that time the PSD will have the opportunity to ask the questions directly. He spoke on a particularly important issue, which is that of social security. Let me tell you that the former Minister for Social Security, who was, and is, a great technician in this area, of the best that the country has, has failed at a fundamental point. Because of it, the real reform of social security has never been discussed in this House. This reform was discussed only two decades ago, 20 years ago! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u218	And your reform before this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u219	That's the big error of PS, which doesn't want to go any further.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u220	But the bad measures were yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u221	We see our young people saying that in their time they will not be reformed. This is invariably the statement of these young people and you do not want to know this opinion of these young people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u222	Now, it's just the young people who count for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u223	We want and will bet on this and other reforms, including the economy and the political system. We'll never stop making that bet! Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you will know everything that our programme is, you may even have a chance to read, if you have time for that, and the honourable Members. Sectoral ministers will answer the questions that need to be asked and will also answer your questions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u224	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u225	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The XXII Constitutional Government presents to the Assembly of the Republic a Programme to invest the next four years in articulated response to four major strategic challenges: climate change, demographic sustainability, digital transition, combating inequalities. The Government Programme supports this strong strategic ambition in commitment to good governance: right accounts for convergence, investing in the quality of public services, improving the quality of democracy and valuing the functions of sovereignty. This means that the XXII Constitutional Government intends to govern for the people, for the Portuguese today and for the Portuguese of tomorrow, for all Portuguese, because for us, unlike others, the country is only better when the lives of people are better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, the mission of this government continues the work of the previous government, now with new levels of ambition and demand. As the Prime Minister once again reaffirmed here today, we want to continue the change that began in 2015, knowing that everything has not been done in a legislature, that there is still much to do, but that the course will continue to be the same: to build a decent society, to improve the living conditions of citizens, which requires, at the same time, to create conditions for the growth of the economy, a more innovative, inclusive and cleaner economy. It is this virtuous circle that we must continue to feed. In order to achieve this wish, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, now reinforced by popular vote, will honour its own responsibilities of assuming and making fruitful the four-year successful plural left-wing heritage in Parliament and in the Government, expecting our partners nothing more than a commitment as clear as ours. Let it be clear that we respect the plurality of parliamentary dialogue and that we will not cease to study and consider the proposals of all elected representatives for this House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u227	However, the truth is that the PS represents an idea about the responsibility of public policies that the right does not share, threatened as it is by a deeply individualist conception of society and by deep prejudices against the role of the State, public services and its workers. The fights for equality and against the determination of each’s future by their starting social condition continue to separate us deeply from the right in decisive policies, for example in educational matters. We need to bring together all the determination of those who understand that social status is not welfareism, that the social state is for all, not only for the most deprived. We need to make all those for whom health promotion is a primary responsibility for public policies. It is necessary to count on all those who work for the continuity of investment in public school as the main tool for reducing inequalities and social mobility, continuing to promote school success, reducing early abandonment and promoting inclusion. We need all the intelligence and wills that the transition to digital is an opportunity for a society based on knowledge, more inclusive, where innovation goes hand in hand with better and more qualified employment, with greater territorial equity, a transition to digital, which respects fundamental rights, in particular the rights of workers. So looking at the country and our responsibilities, we will not be mistaken in choosing the partners. In order to continue the course, we know that we must be the least sectarian of all, and of all, the most flexible to negotiate, with the eyes set on the results to be achieved, more than in the different starting positions. In the past, the right dreamed of the devil to stop the recovery of income and rights, but the devil did not come and the country took a path of economic and social development. The right, which tried to forget its previous government responsibilities by placing a radical speech, received a message of disapproval from the voters. Unfortunately, there are those in this field who have not learned much from experience. The opposition leader entered this debate, not focused on the next four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u228	The leader is only from opposition to PSD, no one else!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u229	...but trying to catch a fake news ride in the last few weeks. The opposition leader enters this legislature to lament the costs of democracy, when it should even be concerned about the costs of lack of democracy, the costs of authoritarianism and the presumption of self-sufficiency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also why the country cannot count on this right to give a consistent direction to governance and public policies. We therefore have to count on the determination, intelligence and work of all who know and want, from both their differences and their convergences, to give continuity to the essential of the road started in 2015 and to show that we know how good political and social stability is for the Portuguese. To that end, the country can count on the Socialist Party, this power of the democratic left, which once again in the last elections, citizenship has chosen to strengthen so that we can continue to assume our responsibilities before the Portuguese people in government and Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u230	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u231	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 4 years ago, we said, in the parliamentary debate in which the previous government took possession, that the right was bitter with the country and, bitter and angry with the election result, would be handed over to Azedum if he did not make different choices. They chose this path for four years and I believe that today we can say that the warnings were right and that the results are right in view: they had a historical electoral defeat and, when they chose that path of Azedum, they were prevented from presenting credible alternatives to the country. Bitterness has not convinced or won as a political programme—I think today we can say this with all certainty. But also four years ago, the Government came to the Assembly of the Republic to gain legitimacy, to ensure cooperation with the Assembly of the Republic and to show that there were other possibilities with Parliament. in this cooperation we were able to recover wages, recover pensions, free the Country from the claws of the troika, redeem hope and show that there was an alternative to austerity. Four years later, we can say that this path was worth it. We don't regret the choice we made four years ago. But, looking at that moment and looking at today, we can also say that not everything is equal to what was in 2015. In 2015, there were commitments for four years, written in the form of formal agreements, and a Government Programme with concrete measures, negotiated on the left, which was brought here to the Assembly of the Republic. Today, when we discuss a programme of the Government of the Socialist Party, chosen, decided and presented only by the Socialist Party, we realize that in this debate, where there were previously promises of cooperation with Parliament, today there seems to be a tone of challenge and threat. It is not a good way if you even want stability for four years. A four-year project should not begin with a coming to Parliament showing that the accounts have already been made as the government can be demolished, it should be shown that they were available to make the right choices so that those accounts would never be made. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If the government even wants to increase wages and extend rights, if it even wants to do more and better, know that it needs Parliament, and in the Left Block there is a left that never lacks these fundamental choices. We know, and I believe that democracy demonstrates us, that cooperation is not submission. We were available to work on the government program, but the PS didn't want it. It has this legitimacy, but more power brings more responsibility. We, as well as we know, must also know the Socialist Party and the Government. Negotiating is dialogue, involvement, engagement. Fishing on the line measures between them and others can serve as a sign of openness, but it is not a method for dialogue and no one should fall into this deception. I know there was a dream of an absolute majority, and it is legitimate that dream, but no one should be sorry for not having achieved it. If the Portuguese people did not want to give the PS the comfort of the absolute majority, this awkward must be overcome, because that is how democracy works. They look to the right and see that those who are angry with the country are never successful and therefore an absolute minority government is not the answer when an absolute majority fails. Even if discussions are not easy, even if we do not always agree, it is the requirement of dialogue that the outcome of the elections compromises us. Four years ago, we learned about the virtues of the path we started, but we also warned from the beginning about their inadequacies. We have warned many times about the fragility of public investment. Money was deposited for BANIF and we said that this money was needed for public school. He paid to sell the New Bank and we said that this money was needed — and it is necessary — to the National Health Service. And whenever the government went beyond the goal for the deficit, we warned that that was where there was no room for public investment. Today, we know that we were right, but we are not satisfied with that, because it means that the problems are going to be solved there. We look at the hospital emergencies of which Garcia de Orta Hospital is the largest of the examples and we perceive as missing — and as it has failed — the investment: in the lack of educational action assistants, who are closing schools around the country, or in the lack of teachers, who leave the classrooms empty, or in the lack of public investment in housing and a housing crisis, which in large cities takes more than half of the income of families only to pay the costs to have access to a home, or in the flight of offshore capital, or in the 600 million euros of tax benefits lost with the fortunate pensioners from other countries, who pay no IRS, or, no less important, in the precariousness of young people with low wages who still mark our economy. We know how much we need to do, but we also know how often we were alerting there was a discomfort that appeared and, therefore, often we were not understood. Many times they called us trouble, of which they wanted to get rid, but the truth is, if we had been heard, today the country would be better, and it is in these inadequacies that we identify that we trace the path to the future. But there is a question to be answered: will the ghost of the last government continue to stand in the current government? We know that government programmes are a set of good intentions, but that they have to pass the crisis of reality and the challenge of implementing policies in concrete. And if these good intentions fall under this shadow in this Government Programme itself, the doubt is about public investment. The lack of investment haunts the lives of people who despair in public services, who do not have the health care they deserve, who find the closed schools or classrooms without teachers. The shadowing now in this Government Programme appears in the form of a permanent primary surplus of 3 % of GDP and is the brand of the Eurogroup transformed into a government military shirt. Now, our challenge, the challenge of all of us, is to have the courage to free public investment for the country's needs and, on the side of the Left Block, here we are to face this challenge. of the many things that we have done still much to do, and we have identified these requirements. To overcome the climate crisis, the housing crisis, the challenge of an economy for all, fair and dignified, with strong public services and solidarity, here will be the Left Block to create the necessary bridges to the country and participate in essential dialogues. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u232	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government Programme that we are discussing today, being the PS Government Programme, necessarily reflects PS's options with its commitments, its shortcomings, limitations and own contradictions. The starting point and comparison term today is no longer 2015, it is no longer the prospect of interrupting the policy of aggravating the exploitation and impoverishment of the CEPs and the pact of aggression of the troika and PSD/CDS governance. The starting point and comparison term, today, is the path of defense, replacement and conquest of rights that has been worth going through in the last four years and the need for its consolidation and deepening. As we have already stated in this debate, in the view of the CFP, the Government's programme does not correspond to the policy that the country needs to solve the problems present and ensure a future of sovereign development, progress and social justice. It is an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that Portugal needs, and that is not the policy of the PS or of this government. The few concrete measures and objectives taken in this Programme that can indicate prospects for progress are not sufficient to make the finding otherwise. However, the CFP does not, as it has never done, a fixed or expected assessment of the Government Programme. We know that the Government's programme and policy will have to confront the reality to which they are headed, that their insufficiency or wrong choices will be translated into the inability to solve the serious national problems that persist and that this inability will put the development of the struggle of workers and populations as a condition for full response to popular needs and desires. It will happen to this government as it happens to all governments. Moreover, the experience of the last Parliament clearly shows that the wrong, insufficient or limited options of the Government can always be overcome with political initiative and the development of the struggle. This is how it happened with the actual increase in pensions, rejected by the previous Government and not included in its Programme but then implemented because the strength of the CFP's struggle and political initiative thus determined it. We have already heard today, for once again, the Prime Minister is accountable to parliamentary arithmetic, seeking to set out ideas as to the difficult conditions that need to be gathered so that the PS and the Government will be defeated in votes in the Assembly of the Republic. It is bad news that the government is already starting from the principle that its proposals may lead to the need for defeat with such arithmetic, but at least we are left with the government starting with this arithmetic for some tremendous outcome or goal that it intends to achieve. It would be better for the Government to concentrate on counting the sum of forces and votes needed to get the measures to advance rights and respond to the needs of the workers, the people and the country. And the government can now have one thing: the CFP will not lack its strength, its votes, its proposals and initiatives to the alternative policy that the country needs and why the workers and the people want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u234	The arithmetic that counts for an alternative policy is quite different from that which occupied the Prime Minister's speech and is clearly clear: the only circumstance in which it will not be possible to adopt measures for a policy of left and defence of national interest is the circumstance in which the PS's strength and votes fail to this objective and converge with the result intended by the parties to the right of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u235	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Consolidating and deepening the path of defence, replacement and conquest of rights that have been carried out in the last four years requires clearly assuming objectives in this regard and setting conditions and means for their realization and also means identifying limitations and constraints on this path and ways to overcome it. Several examples of how these objectives are addressed in a vague and diffuse manner have already been given in the interventions of the CFP Parliamentary Group, with no concrete commitments associated with or even with assertions of the opposite direction. In response to the national emergency of general increase in wages, the need to combat precariousness, the urgent need to hire workers for public services and to enhance all careers, the increase in public investment, the strengthening of the means in health, education, culture, justice, the security forces and services and other areas of State responsibility, the commitments made by the Government in its Programme do not correspond to what would be necessary for it to be stated that this is a policy of consolidation and deepening the path of defence, replacement and conquest of rights. When we deal with the government's position in the face of the main external and internal constraints facing the country, the response given by the Government's Programme is, in some cases, non-existent and, in other cases, acceptance of the set of taxes that are at the basis of these constraints. The contradiction that was present in the past legislation is compounded between the possibilities for responding to the problems of the country and at the same time the acceptance and enforcement of external taxes, particularly those of the European Union. When the Government assumes as emblematic references of its Programme the acceptance and compliance of deficit taxes, with budgetary surpluses and positive primary balances of 3 %, or the mere management of public debt without the prospect of its renegotiation, what it is really doing is exacerbating those contradictions. A primary balance of 3 % means not hiring the missing workers, not making the public investment necessary to improve public services, not supporting the productive sectors. A primary balance of 3 % means leaving all of this behind and generating budgetary surpluses of more than EUR 6 billion that will be entirely diverted to meet the creditors' gula without even posing a structural response to the debt problem. To set a primary balance target of 3 % means to put the whole country working for debt interest, means to lower the needs of workers and the people in relation to debt interest, means to compromise the country's future on behalf of a debt management policy with new loans to pay the previous ones, without the problem even approaching a solution. The Government's public debt options correspond to the wooden house of the fable The Three Porquinhos and the Lobo Mau. It may be more robust than the straw house and easier to build than the concrete house, it may even be faster to put to view, but it will suffice a stronger blow of the speculators/creators in a next speculative offensive over our country and there the work goes to the air again. The same applies to the acceptance of external taxes which continue to determine the liquidation and abandonment of our productive sectors in agriculture, fisheries and industry. By accepting such impositions, the consequence will be the continuation and worsening of our external dependence. The same applies to the refusal of public control of strategic sectors dominated by monopoly capital and large economic groups, with dramatic examples in energy, banking, transport and telecommunications. Just as a concrete example, how can the Government reconcile the reopening of closed TTC stations and the guarantee of a public postal service as a universal right of populations and territorial cohesion factor if the ownership of TTCs is unaffected and not to save the company from the operational liquidation it has been subject to, in a framework where the end of the granting of postal service already in 2020 puts these problems today as urgent? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Government refers to certain accounts, the criterion which it uses is the result of the European Union, the budgetary Treaty and the rules of the euro area, it is the criterion which leaves the interests of monopolistic capital and the large economic groups unaffected so as not to undermine the sacrosanct markets, after all, it is the criterion which seriously compromises the possibilities of consolidation and deepening the path of defence, replacement and conquest of rights that have been pursued over the past four years. On the PCP side, the right criterion for the right accounts is not that, is that of solving the problems of the country and of responding to the needs of the workers and the people. It is for these objectives, with the proposal of the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that we defend, that the CFP will be beaten. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u237	I ask Mrs. Vice-President, Edite Estrela, to replace me for a while. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The Government's Health Programme has some good intentions since 2015, such as the construction of five new hospitals, which have not yet passed away from the role or a symbolic stone, has bad ideas, disenchanted in the previous legislature, such as the exclusion of PPPs, have serious omissions, such as palliative care, rare diseases or euthanasia, a matter already asked by the CDS and again omitted by Mr. Prime Minister, and lists a role of intentions that the lack of execution capacity of the last four years turns into a fatal janja vu. Nothing that we have not been accustomed to by a government that announces instead of doing and that has developed the bad habit of neither investing nor paying debts. Let us just talk about debts. It is that, although people are not numbers, the truth is that they explain a lot about what users have been through in health services: waiting lists for years and growing, temporary closure of services, successive resignations of clinical directions, exit of medical specialists. According to the SNS transparency portal, the total debt to external suppliers in August 2019 was EUR 1833 million. Just to make it clear: the SNS owes three and a half times the value of the State budget for culture. The debt of EPE hospitals ( publicly owned enterprises), which is now recurrent, has publicly stated here in the Health Commission that it would pay up by the end of the year, rose to EUR 65 million in September 2019 and is fixed at EUR 651 million. Perhaps, therefore, there have been reports that SNS hospitals are again having difficulty paying suppliers, that payment deadlines have been delayed again and since the summer companies are receiving vague answers when they claim the liquidation of invoices, which there are hospitals to assume that by the end of the year they only have money to pay wages. This concerns the debts recognised in the accounts, because there is at least one year of surgeries performed through the Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery which have not yet been invoiced. There will be a need for a new capital injection, which is, in fact, a premium for poor management and the solution that the previous protection, now repeating, presented in 2018, of a management autonomy added to 11 hospitals, was limited to three program contracts and reduced to almost nothing. With negative results, increasing debts and investment park executed below the budget and lack of planning about human resources, the consequence is a poor and frankly limited SNS in its ability to serve in time and hours those who count on it: all of us! Above all, the Government's Programme does not say a word, but if the Government is omitted, the CDS will not be, so we will make a recommendation to the Government so that, in cases where maximum waiting times are not respected for specialist consultations on the public network, the patient may choose to attend a hospital in the social or private sector. The Government's programme also says nothing about ADSE — on the other hand, this issue has already been asked by the CDS and has been omitted by Mr. Prime Minister — which is particularly negligible when several studies and reports are known, including that of the Health Regulatory Authority and even today that of the Court of Auditors show that the sustainability of ADSE is at risk and can only be guaranteed with its enlargement. It proves that with the current profile of the beneficiaries, the budget surplus has fallen from EUR 200 million to EUR 67 million over the past four years. But if the Government is omitted, the CDS will not be, and we will therefore give a recommendation to the Government to take the necessary measures to gradually extend ADSE to all workers, whether or not they have a working link to the State, thus ensuring their sustainability and ending discrimination today without any sense. For the CDS it is important that people have access to quality health care in time and time, regardless of where they live or the size of their portfolio. We are presenting our proposals today, because we do not resign from proposing an alternative that will always happen to guarantee everyone the freedom of choice that is currently reserved only for some. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first time that I chair a plenary session, allow me to say that I am very warm with all the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the different seats and who would also give a very special greeting to the Prime Minister and to the members of the Government, to the ladies and gentlemen. Officials of this House, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and also Mrs and Mrs. Officers of authority. I wish everyone a fruitful job in favour of democracy and national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor to make a request for clarification to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u240	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, is regrettable the lack of memory of the CDS in the field of health and National Health Service, because neither we nor the Portuguese forget what you have done in the Government, between 2011 and 2015 : have cut EUR 1100 million from the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... increased moderate rates, making it difficult for Portuguese to access the National Health Service, hospitals and health centres and family health units! This, not to mention the hospitals that were to be built, the family health units that were to be set up and the health centers that were to be built. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The last four years of the National Health Service have the following numbers: the cut that you have made in the National Health Service has been restored; the investment in the National Health Service in four years, between 2015 and 2019, was 1300 million euros. Today, the National Health Service has more than 11 000 professionals, with more doctors, more nurses and more assistants. More than 700,000 consultations were conducted during the previous primary health care legislation and there were also 18 000 surgeries. We regret that the CDS has been against the Health Bases Act. When looking for solutions, the CDS is against and always choose the wrong side of the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also regret that the speech of the honourable Member has ignored the measures which are included in the Government's programme, namely the creation of more family health units, more health centres, more Portuguese with family doctor and new hospitals. I shall finish as I began, Mrs. Member : the lack of memory of the CDS in relation to the National Health Service is regrettable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u241	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u242	Mr President, Mr President, I confess that I was with some anxiety to understand which would be the first Member to try to speak about the government before the previous government in order to be able to shoulder some responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I think this will be more complicated to do from here forward, which will spend a lot of time and will give a lot of work to be saying that it is not the previous government but the previous government. Mr, there is no problem of bad memory on the part of the CDS. Perhaps there is with you about the previous government, which is to speak of a more recent past. Tell me something, honourable Member: has the hospital of All Saints been built, the hospital of Eastern Lisbon? Oh, my God! Do you know that this was part of the Government's programme — the previous government — that it has been registered for four years in all State budgets and nothing has happened? What about Seixal Hospital, Sintra Hospital and Funchal Hospital? They now appear new in sheets as a great novelty, a great thing that now, yes, at last, is that it will be done! If I were cynical, Mr President, I would say-CL to you: what a disgrace of government that was before this, but this is going to solve the matter now, surely! ...Mr. Member, I will spare you for that! As for the promises of the previous government — not from the previous one, but from the previous one, which was yours — it had also been said that all Portuguese would have a family doctor. Do you remember that? They didn't! But now it's gonna be! The previous government has been bad, it has not fulfilled its promise, but this government, which is more or less the same, after all it will succeed now. As for credibility, we're talking! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u243	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, from the party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u244	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : It becomes exciting, exciting to see the left, now, very upset with the Socialist Party. It is, in fact, very exciting that the Communist Party and the Left Block, who have given their hand to the worst that the Socialist Party has done, come before the Portuguese today, saying that they don't remember anything, that we have to be careful with the money we give to the banks and that we have to be careful with the Portuguese who have lost their jobs. Shame was what they should have today, when they are here to support a government they have given their hand to for four years! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u245	With all that is happening in health — closed emergencies, hospitals in which nothing works, closed police stations — this same government says, in its Programme, that it wants to extend public housing — imagine! — to those of old, to those we already know and to whom the government calls 'various minorities', 'various minorities'. They're always the same! [[PS protests.]] We who pay taxes are always paying for the same! The vast majority of Portuguese workers, who pay taxes, and who strive to have a decent life are forgotten. It is always the same injustice, which now arrives in Parliament to be denounced every day. He also said that the government — he said — would promote a major electoral reform. Of course, until the Left Block says it couldn't be, it's about forgetting the electoral reform! They better assume and say they're going to support them for four years, instead of going here to the zigzags fooling the Portuguese. This Government programme, in addition to forgetting the security forces and agents, brings us a more disturbing element. It says : « From now on, we will study alternative models to prison». I can imagine! Maybe at home, maybe in the car, maybe on the beach. Why not? Why not have a justice in which, who raped and killed, has the right to be on the beach for three months and has the right to be off the beach, perhaps in the countryside, for the rest of the time? Oh, my God! It's a shame! Especially when there was, in full election campaign, another woman killed by someone who should be in jail and was not. Once again, the same shame, which the Government now brings into its programme. We've all heard about the Nationality Law. The Free, with its great stake in the Law of Nationality, has already infected the Block of Left : everyone who is born in Portugal is Portuguese and, even if he is passing here by train, he is Portuguese! That's how we're going in this country! This is how we look at the future and that is how we want to make Portugal, indeed, a country worthy of nationality. This has to be said to the Portuguese! What you want to do is the greatest shame and the greatest attack on nationality that there is memory! [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know if we are in the 15th century, whether in the 16th or 17th century, but I know that this government is one of the greatest shames of our democratic history. That's what I know and I'm going to keep saying it! Even in this Government Programme, one speaks of housing, forgetting the Portuguese suffocated by the IMI, suffocated in fees and bureaucracy. They look to the side and say: “Pay! Let's pay! Let's pay! We are here to distribute later». It is the best of socialist politics: « we distribute and the others pay». It's always been that way and that's how it's gonna be! I end with a challenge, Prime Minister. He speaks of recognizing the work and merit of the former fighters. Shame, Prime Minister! It's a shame, when there are old fighters to earn €177 and when those who don't want to do anything continue to earn more than €1000 per month and fill our social security and our mails the way we know. The former fighters are to respect and this government has committed here once again one of the greatest shames of our history.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u246	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u247	I shall conclude, Madam President. Right said the devil was coming. He's really here! And the devil, today, is this great left-wing majority, who wants to make Portugal a kind of Venezuela. Don't count on us! Don't count on arrive, don't count on portuguese right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u248	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u249	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address you from my place in the Chamber so that I can tell Mr. Prime Minister that I was aware of the fact that I chose the Liberal Initiative at this morning's session as his main ideological opponent. [[PS laughter.]] I was sensitized, especially because I even felt the need to invent the census vote argument, which I did not use. Mr. Prime Minister knows I didn't use that argument, he knows I'm not defending him. Whoever needs to invent it is because he has no further argument or, then, he is very afraid of the opposition that he knows the Liberal Initiative will do to him. [[PS protests.]] I was also very aware that I felt the lack of our alternatives. I am sorry that I did not have time to describe the alternatives that the Liberal Initiative has to the policies contained in the Government Programme. Mr. Prime Minister, it's been too long in the highest power, you don't remember what it is to have no time to explain the measures. I therefore hope that as Prime Minister but also as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party will use its influence so that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure which the Liberal Initiative proposed yesterday will be approved, so that small parties will have time to propose alternatives and be able to discuss them with themselves. Mr. Prime Minister said that the programme was not talking about raising taxes. He doesn't talk about raising taxes, but he's very close! It is very close, because it says, for example, that it will greatly increase public investment, that it will have a significant increase in current public expenditure—to believe in the promises that are made and if there are no captives—that it will keep the goal of reaching the end of the legislature with the public debt below 100 % of GDP, says that despite the primary deficit it has fallen from 3, 4 % to 3 %, it maintains the same objective. All this in an international scenario that will certainly not be better than the fantastic scenario we have had in the past four years. Mr. Prime Minister, you want to square the circle! Who misses being a commenter is Mr. Prime Minister! He wants to go back to the Circle Square! It is that this is only in two ways: either it does not comply with the Programme which today presents or will increase taxes. The same conclusion I can draw when looking at the Public Administration. It is planned in the Stability Programme, approved in April, an increase of 3 % of the wage mass, and now we have, in addition to the salary mass, admissions of employees and career progressions. This together will not cost less than EUR 1 billion, in my estimate, because this programme has no accounts again. So, I ask, where does this difference come from? Either it violates the program or increases taxes. Mr Prime Minister, are you committed to the fact that, in the budget to be presented soon and in the rest of the legislature, you will not proceed with the increase in taxes? And do not take refuge, please, in direct taxes versus indirect taxes, which was what you did in the last legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u250	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira, of the Free, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u251	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Executive, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An Executive of the 21st century inevitably needs to find, as objective number one, equality. This equality is our goal. We will fully assist and encourage any initiative that relates to the increase of equality, the reduction of asymmetries and, in particular, with equality that is not only rhetorical, but that has a feminist view and an anti-racist view, an equality that at no time relativizes the need for increased national minimum order and investment in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u252	Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Mr. João Pedro Matos Fernandes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Dear colleagues of the Government : We don't always know what we expect when we talk about certain phenomena. But we know exactly what lies ahead when we talk about climate change. We are well aware of the need for changes in habits that, as citizens, we must carry out and we well know the need for political leadership in order to achieve our goals. As climate action is a cross-cutting area and thus recognized in the organic and government programme, the concentration of a single Ministry of Key Competences for Mitigation of Emissions, the adaptation of the territory and the carbon sequestration are, in our view, a very good start. We're not leaving the zero. We know what we've done over the past four years: a work with results. We also feel that this is a subject whose concerns are common to many of the parties in this House and, above all, we know that this is one of the biggest concerns of Portuguese people, particularly of younger generations. In short, we are always responsible, but above all we will be ambitious. It is ambitious when it comes to reducing our emissions by 55 % by 2030, being carbon neutral by 2050, ending during this legislation with the production of electricity from coal. Mitigating, adapting and kidnapping are the three key verbs. Let's start with the first, the verb mitigating, i.e. by reducing carbon emissions. All sectors will have to contribute to reducing emissions, but it is mainly in the areas of electricity production and mobility that greater and faster advances will have to be made. Closing the Pego Central in 2021 and the Sines Central in 2023 are today possible targets, anticipating what was included in the Socialist Party's electoral programme. They are possible targets with environmental gains and gains in electricity bill because production from renewable sources is cheaper than from fossil fuels. The results obtained with the recent auction for the production of electricity from the solar, in which Portugal struck a record of the world for the lowest price, prove the satiety that it is even cheaper to generate electricity from renewable sources than to use for this fossil fuel effect. Of course, this will be added to a reduction in imports and a gradual approximation of the price of electricity paid by our consumers, including industrial consumers, to the other countries in central Europe. Another central proposal of the Government Programme is the assessment of the impact of legislative proposals and sectoral policies on climate action. It is not a simple nor usual method, but it is an obligation for the government to be ready until the summer, and it will want to extend to industrial investments and financial sector financing decisions. To be carbon neutral in 2050, the country will have to invest more than EUR 2 billion per year than in a current scenario. For that reason too, this is such an important project for the economic development of the country. from this word, a very expressive part will be the responsibility of companies and families, because carbon neutrality cannot be achieved by closing a few chimneys, but only with a project of profound transformation of production, consumption and use of resources. of our Programme is the development of a green bank that has a seminal role in financing projects in the field of climate action, and we are committed to monitoring the projects of the European Investment Bank in this area, and can, on the limit, dispense up to a project at national level. This Government also welcomes the proposal from the new Commission, the European Green Deal, seeking that the same should include the adaptation needs of the European territories which are most exposed to the effects of climate change, i.e. those that are located in southern Europe, of course, among them Portugal. It is true that a share of the investments to achieve neutrality goes through the exchange of vehicles to combustion by electric vehicles, by the energy neutrality of buildings, by the creation of energy communities that involve industrial spaces. These are private investments. But there is a share of investment that is the responsibility of the State, especially investments in mobility and transport. from there the relevance of the expansion of the meters of Lisbon and Porto, as of the metro projects, similar to the one developed for Coimbra. It will be during the next Parliament that the projects, already under tendering, for the expansion of networks, for the acquisition of rolling stock, as well as the arrival of new ships for the Transtejo will be carried out. In the next Parliament will also be decided on the new investment projects — whose ambition is already known to this House as having the NIP — with the difference that this time who will decide on these investments are the authorities and the metropolitan areas and not the government. The reduction of the price of passes is a fundamental project for the fair transition, a project to be strengthened in this legislature, as well as the follow-up of new mobility solutions, with a special focus on electric mobility. in our Program, there is the continuity of auctions for the production of electricity from the solar and the novelty of auctions for dispatchable power stations, i.e. for power generation plants from renewable sources that associate storage. Only in this way will we strengthen the security of supply and reduce the need for imports and use of any fossil fuel. The strengthening of production from renewable sources and the storage of electricity, together with the establishment of energy communities that can make production for local consumption profitable in a plural way, are the touchstones of a fair energy transition, for contributing to the reduction of the energy bill of domestic and industrial consumers. In order to achieve the full reduction in emissions, we need to be able to evolve into an economy that, as it grows, generates resources, ensuring that it falls within the limits of natural systems, that is, we have to evolve into a progressively more circular economy. Portugal will be, for sectors such as construction, the use of plastics, the limitation of disposables, an example, and this is in our Programme; as is the realization in our Programme of a fiscal rebalancing movement that progressively reduces the burden on work and transfers to pollution, emissions and intensive use of resources. It is not about increasing the tax burden — it is about using tax tools in order to guide the economy and social consumption habits, so as to ensure that the climate emergency is not an empty proclamation but a basis for the change that Portugal needs, or not our country, one of the most suffering in Europe, with the consequences of climate change. It is precisely because these consequences are an element of the present rather than of the future that the need for adaptation of the territory will have to run in parallel with the reduction of emissions. in this regard, our Programme is as clear as ambitious. Of course, the emphasis we attributed to interventions on the coast and the water network always using natural engineering methods, as well as the preparation of our country for water scarcity. Water does not come from heaven, comes from the earth, and is essential for the earth and for those who inhabit it. Water is ecosystem support and is not property of our species. Thus, let no one delude, because there is only one long-term strategy for water management: spending less water, complementing savings with the reuse of effluents treated in ETAR (Residual Water Treatment Station ) for secondary uses, including the stream of permanent crops. The best economic activity will have to make an effort to adapt, for living exclusively from natural resources, is, of course, agricultural activity. The Government programme makes clear the development of a more resilient agricultural model and a more sustainable agriculture. In addition to improving soil fertility, we will have to bet on the gradual conversion of crops, with species and varieties better adapted to climate change, water scarcity, the promotion of biodiversity grazing and the promotion of precision agriculture. In relation to the sea, in addition to the consolidation of the blue economy model that we have been developing, we will fulfil our commitment to the United Nations to ensure that 14 % of our ocean is reserved for a network of protected maritime areas. I will now speak of the size of the carbon sequestration. Being carbon neutral does not mean registering zero emissions. It is true that the great effort is on the side of the reduction of emissions, which will have to be reduced by 85 % by 2050. But also our sewer capacity will have to increase from the current 9 megatons to 13 megatons of CO2. And for the increase in greenhouse gas sequestration capacity we do not have three decades, because the climate is getting warmer every day and, therefore, every day too, it will be harder to achieve this goal. The Portuguese forest will have as its final end an objective that corresponds to a public good and that translates into its ability to be the carbon kidnapper that the country needs, from the reordinating of our landscape. Yes, forest is a problem of species choice because of the need for adaptation of the territory, but believe that this is the least difficult option. The forest is essentially a land structure problem and a problem of people who own their property. To know the register, to encourage joint management, to pay for ecosystem services that forest provides us, to draw new landscape plans with new cultural mosaics, to realize that the longer the trees live without being cut off they increase their sewer capacity are the key options for a forest—private, most of the time—which is profitable, at the same time as fulfilling its most important function, I repeat, that of sewerage. Adding conservation and forest policies is very important, but joining land and forest planning is even strategic for drawing a new set of landscape mosaics, including a greater capacity to intervene in the regeneration of the burned areas. Bioeconomics is a sustainable economy that brings together all sectors of the economy that use biological resources. Our Ministry, now with the forests, has all the tools to produce, within a year, a national strategy for bioeconomics. This is what we do in our programme. I conclude by saying that natural systems have never been deceived. They never lack anything, they never have anything left, nothing is fairer on their scale than a natural system. There is, in fact, planet B, there is no Earth 2.0 and therefore never wonder if the cup is half full or if the cup is half empty. If the glass is half water, it's because it has twice the size it's necessary. This is the principle of rationality of adequacy, which is built up with an economy that grows generating well-being, but which is simultaneously hypocarbonic and resource-regenerating. It was clear to us that the work done by the Government in the previous Parliament in relation to the networks that build the territory was done. This work will intensify during this legislature, but now accompanying the relevance that the promotion of biodiversity and natural capital will have in building a more just, more coherent and more sustainable Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u254	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, in order to make requests for clarification, 12 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u255	Madam President, I will respond in groups of 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u256	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, 20 years ago the Habitats Directive was transposed into Portuguese law. This Directive provides for the restoration or maintenance of natural habitats and species of Community interest in a favourable state of conservation and consequently for States to designate special conservation zones ( ZEC ) in order to establish a coherent European ecological network in accordance with a defined timetable. The deadline for carrying out these designations ended in 2010. Now, we are in 2019 and Portugal has not designated a single site of Community importance as a special conservation area. In view of this inertia, the European Commission initiated an action at the Court of Justice of the European Union, in 2018, which has been considered to be proceeding, and in September of this year this Court declared that Portugal has failed to fulfil the obligations required by the Habitats Directive, in particular the designation of the sites of Community importance (SIC) concerned as special conservation zones and failure to implement conservation measures, referring to the fact that the measures it presented are generic and are solely guiding and do not meet the ecological requirements of each species and type of habitat in each site concerned. Is it any coincidence that currently in some of the sites that should have been classified as a special conservation zone are planned or already under way economic holdings that call into question habitats and species protected by this Directive? This is the case with Montijo airport, the dredgings of Sado, the greenhouses of the south-western Alentejo or the intensive olive trees in Guadiana, which are located in or within these locations. As you know, Minister, if these sites had already been properly classified, many of these projects would not have been authorized. Mr Minister, after the deadlines for the Directives end after the European Commission's appeals, after Portugal's conviction by the European Court of Justice, the Government's Programme makes no reference to the designation of these special conservation zones. So we have to ask: can we or should we not count on the designation of these 61 areas by the end of 2019? Or are we going to continue to leave the way open for economic interests, with damage to environmental values? Another area that should already be designated as a special conservation area and is not the Natural Reserve of the Tagus Estuary. It is a zone that is not, on purpose, located in the area of influence of the place where the so-called Montijo complementary airport is intended to be built. It is, Mr Minister, an area that is a habitat of many species protected by these directives, but which is strongly threatened with the intention of building the airport in Montijo. Moreover, the potential adverse effects of the airport to the ecosystem are known and the environmental impact study itself is particularly enlightening when it says that, and I quote, "the most important impacts in the exploitation phase are for birds and result from the movement of aircraft on the Tejo Estuary" or "will cause a high noise disturbance in the feed and shelter habitats for this group". Moreover, the potential risks do not concern birds and also have implications for people, resulting from the exponential increase in flights that will fly over the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, particularly residential areas, at a pace of anything like 72 movements per hour—more than one plane per minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u258	Mrs. Deputy, it's been over, and a lot, your time. However, as you are being discounted in the overall time of your parliamentary group, I am just warning you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u259	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll finish. Knowing that a work of this size corresponds to a sectoral plan and therefore must be subject to strategic environmental assessment, until properly the issues related to the expansion of the Humberto Delgado Airport and the construction of the Montijo complementary airport have been excluded from the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure, we ask whether it maintains the position that this strategic assessment is not required or whether it considers it unnecessary because the answer may not be favourable to the construction of the airport. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u260	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block, has the floor also for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u261	Madam President, Minister, the planet cannot wait. The climate crisis is an urgent one for humanity and it is necessary and unacceptable for society to reorganize to respond and protect the planet, biodiversity and our lives. I therefore welcome the centrality of this theme in the Government Programme. However, there are a number of concerns that it has raised, from the very outset, the creation of a green tax, which the Government says will be neutral for the state's revenues and will be a positive discrimination for consumption. I would like to ask you, of course, what is in particular green taxation. I wonder whether it will be neutral, or even fairer, for the poorest population and which, as such, consumes less. Another concern is that the Government's programme places carbon trade as the main instrument for decarbonisation. The problem is that handing over this instrument of democracy to the market does not work — I repeat, it does not work. Only 100 companies are responsible for 71 % of greenhouse gas emissions. The market is an unstoppable ceiling for climate ambition. Therefore, being ambitious, Mr Minister, I ask: does the Government present various measures relating to consumption and also coal, but where are the ambitious and structural measures to reduce emissions in the production of goods and services? Where is industrial conversion? What is being done by the reorganisation of the economy to ensure that the big polluters stop being? Mr Minister, it is essential to respond to the climate emergency, but the most impoverished layers of the population are most vulnerable to the risks of the climate crisis and are also the least contributing to global warming. The answer must be their protection and job creation, the answer must be through equality policies. Therefore, the answer is: climate justice, justice in the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u262	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u263	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, one of the news of the Government's programme is the anticipation of the closing times of two centrals, that of Sines and that of Pego. It is that the electoral programme which was subject to the Portuguese vote had other deadlines, saying that Pego would close in 2023 and that Sines would close in 2027. Now, the great novelty, which has rendered a series of newspapers very pleased with what the government is doing, which lives a lot of this propaganda made by newspapers, is that now, after all, they will close, respectively, in 2021 and 2023. Mr Minister, what the government did was more or less what those bad stores do before the balances, i.e. they increase the price and then, when the balances begin, they lower it to the initial price. And why is this, Minister? It is that the Pego Central, as Mr Minister knows, has a concession deadline and is scheduled for 28 years to end in 2021. So, after all, what the government is saying is that it will meet the deadline. In the election campaign he had doubts, he was going to give two years of blessing, but now, after all, he will meet the deadline. As for Sines, it is a little more complex because CMECs (Contract Balance maintenance costs) have already ended in 2017 and so if it is still in operation it is because in fact, due measures have not been taken to close, as was foreseen in its contract in 2017. In fact, this extension, perhaps, is due to what is not worth drawing here, since it has already been mentioned a historic time when in 2007 a certain government, of which Mr Prime Minister was No 2, decided to grant a dateless licence to this plant. But you guys there will know how they're going to solve this. So in this chapter, what the Minister and the Government have said was that they will finally meet the deadline laid down in the contract — very well, congratulations! — not what they were saying to the Portuguese, i.e., that they would give more than two years. And in Sines the same thing! They have a problem of bad conscience, because they have not resolved until 2017, but now, fortunately, the date will be anticipated. But, Minister, there are two problems here: it is not enough to replace electricity production with the closure of these two plants, which is very important that they close because they are coal, let us be clear! But if the High Thame replaces Sines — it is similar to the capacity to produce electricity — there is still a need to solve the problem of the Pego power plant and, above all, the challenge of the energy transition, because it will force the country's electrification and it is necessary to produce even more. A final note, now on another subject: lithium. Today, we have heard Mr. Prime Minister say that, for oil and natural gas, it was important to make a moratorium between exploration and exploitation, but in lithium nothing was important! It was decided to hand over to a company constituted three days earlier, with many doubts as to its constitution, and the Secretary of State said on television that the State and the Government should not worry about who the people are and whether there are conflicts between them. Minister, lithium is a good of all of us. Will this government hand over its exploitation to an entity for decades and not have to worry about the suitability of the people who will manage it? Oh, my God! It's hard for me to believe! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u264	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u265	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister : In the programme we are discussing today, the Government proposes to "enhancing the electricity price reduction path", referring to renewables and "energy communities" as two bets in this regard. Mr Minister, will the government's action to reduce energy prices remains here? Does the government not intend to call into question the excessive revenues raised by the energy sector companies? A very specific question: will you or will you not implement the set of recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income? For example, there is no reference in your Programme to the need to recover money for the National Electric System identified by ERSE, i.e. the return by EDP of EUR million, which would have a significant reflection on the tariffs paid by Portuguese consumers, as there is no reference to the objective of setting a maximum energy price scheme. Ensuring better access by Portuguese to energy, which is an essential asset, requires this set of measures, but none of them are in the Government Programme. Mr Minister, on the part of the CFP, we insist on the proposal for a reduction in VAT (value added tax) on electricity, natural gas and bottle gas as well as 6 % instead of the present 23 %. Energy is an essential good, it is not a luxury good, and it must be taxed as very essential. It is time to reverse the decision of the PSD/CDS government taken in 2011 to increase the VAT on electricity and gas from 6 % to 23 %. The reduction in the VAT of energy proposed by the CFP would allow for a significant increase in the income available to families, with positive social impacts and the dynamisation of economic activity. Will the government follow these proposals from the CFP? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u266	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u267	Mr President, Minister, about five months ago we discussed here the climate emergency and concrete measures to deal with it. At the time we referred to the feasibility of anticipation of the closure of the two power stations before the end of this legislature. We knew it was possible and we congratulated. However, we had other discussions in which we even agreed on the principle but which were not poured into the Programme, such as the need to assess the environmental impact of successive large hectares of intensive monocultures, for example. There is a timetable for promoting irrigation but not for essential prevention measures. It is also not understood that, with the growing problems of water shortage, it is not put on another plan to respond to water management, in particular by re-establishing the existence of an authority to return financial autonomy and management to the administrations of the water regions. Finally, I cannot help but wonder if the celebratory raised around lithium did not make him think about the problems raised. Would this strategic sector not make sense to public management? Mr Minister, this holding was handed over to any company with three days of existence. Doesn't it seem strange to you that this is legal? Have they not drawn conclusions on the current environmental impact legislation, which protects the country and resources? For us, of course, these matters cannot continue to be treated lightly. So, I tell you, we are available for these proposals to become reality within five months. The fight against climate change must incorporate new logic and effective state decision-making capacity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u268	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u269	Mr President, Minister for Environment and Climate Action, the ecological struggle for a healthy environment and for living in harmony with nature is a struggle for all, to which thousands of young people have been joining, a little across the country, which we warmly greet from here. Commitment to mitigation and adaptation to climate change requires an urgent change of policies, requires a brake on wild capitalism. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges humanity faces today. Its effects make one feel a little around the world, with extreme climates destroying lives and localities. The fight in defense of the planet is the struggle between those who defend sustainable production modes and those who exploit resources up to their purpose, to ensure the appropriation of wealth, regardless of the consequences for nature, for the environment, for animals, for the lives of women and men. Mr Minister, in the role everything is and it is possible to take all the challenges to face climate change and to ensure the fulfilment of several targets assumed for decarbonisation and greater investment in the environment. The Greens will be here to see and believe. After a careful reading of the Government Programme, we realize that at no time does the word asbestos appear, and that, Minister, is a very serious failure. The Greens have placed on the political agenda, with a high priority, the question of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, particularly in schools, and of the danger that such a reality may constitute. We ask: in view of the concern of people attending public buildings that contain asbestos, and that we have seen in clear manifestations of fatigue from the promises not fulfilled from the withdrawal of this material in security, what answers? Will this government carry out the withdrawal of asbestos from public buildings or this blackout means that the government does not know the state of intervention and does not have a timetable for priority interventions in the future? As for the exploitation of lithium, Mr Minister, the concession of lithium in Montalegre has heated the Portuguese evenings on Friday. As far as AOS Verdes is concerned, our concern, now added to this television novel, was already anterior and is concerned from the outset that, in this country, the Ministry of the Environment, which should be the guardian of environmental balance and our natural wealth, should be at the origin of the signing of a contract of grant from a mine to the open sky for exploitation of lithium, in a territory of great environmental sensitivity, without any previous environmental impact study. It was important that there was transparency and respect for the people of Montalegre. According to the opinion of the Committee on the Evaluation of the Proposal for the Definition of Scope, the environmental impact study requires a total overlap of the mine's area of intervention with the area of the Gerese Biosphere Reserve, with the Barroso Forest Perimeter, and it is partially inserted into the area of the Iberian lobe alcateia territory. It is also expected that the latter will come to represent a threat to the mexilhão derio, a species classified and in danger of extinction, which, ironically, determined the elimination of the dams of the Upper Themega, within the framework of the National Barrage Plan. In addition to these impacts on biodiversity, and contrary to the response of Minister AOS Verdes, in the parliamentary committee, in which he ensured that there was no exploitation of lithium in any classified area, Mina de Montalegre enters the Lands of Barroso, classified as World Agricultural Heritage in 2018 by FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ), due to the value of its agro-silvo-pastoric system. Mr Minister, knowing that, by accepting this classification, the Portuguese State assumes the responsibility to preserve the characteristics of the territory and the obligation to notify before any intervention that radically changes, I ask: does FAO know this situation? If so, what was your opinion on the matter? And when will Mr Minister publicly present the places where he intends to authorize the exploration of lithium? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u270	To respond to this first set of requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u271	Madam President, I thank all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked me questions, to which I will be very pleased to answer. With regard to Mr PAN's request for clarification, I would like to say, with all due respect, that the only part in which it was rigorous was when he said that we are late in the transformation of SICs into ZEC, but everything he said next lies in a tremendous, repeat, tremendous error. While you do not have a management plan — as a site of Community interest you do not have a management plan, but you have to have and will have it by the end of 2020 — what happens, and I cannot say otherwise, is strictly the opposite of what you said. As long as there is no management plan, any intervention, even in excess, must have a positive opinion from the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas). So I repeat, the reservation, in the sense that almost nothing can be done, is really—but indeed! — the opposite of what you said. Regarding the strategic environmental assessment of the airport, as I said, well, it is a project. Well, if it's a project, it's not a plan. The strategic environmental assessment, which I have also heard that it was a much more rigorous thing—in fact, no one has ever been able to show me, neither myself nor anyone, a strategic environmental assessment like that, because, since it is strategic, it is obviously much more vague than the evaluation of a project in concrete, and could not be otherwise—is in place of a plan and not in place of a project. Now, this government has not discussed where the airport should be. There was a decision, which he took, saying « the airport is there », when what was important was to have made an environmental impact assessment for a project, which has a procedure which is known, which respects a Community directive and which has been very successful over the years in Portugal. Mr. Nelson Peralta asked what is a green tax. It is a tax which, for example, ends with environmentally perverse tax benefits, such as those that still exist in Portugal. If, from 2017 to 2018, Portugal reduced its emissions by 9 % while in Europe there was only a 3 % reduction, it was, among other things, through a fiscal measure. In other words, it was because this government decided to end the exemption, which came from yesterday—I don't know where it came from! — complete of the ISP (oil product tax) in the production of electricity from coal. But precisely because this exemption no longer exists, the use of coal as a source for electricity production has become much less interesting for those who produce electricity from coal. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, free market licenses have no date. I can't even understand how it brings together the central of Pego and Sines, because in 2021, it doesn't end anything in Pego. There was an environmental license, which this government will not give, and could continue to work. In fact, it's really strange the comparison you make with Sines because, as he says, and well, the CMECs ended in 2017 — I don't know the exact date, but it will certainly be strict — and Sines continued to work. What exists at the moment are conditions that result much of a new thing, and it is not only a study done by INESC TEC (Instituto de Engineering de Sistemas e Computadores, Technology and Science) that guarantees it. The new thing is even the success that this government has had, in particular by attracting a set of producers for the production of electricity from solar energy, which today allow today to face with complete tranquility the closure of Sines in 2023, fulfilling two conditions, which will certainly be achieved: the entry into operation of the barriers of the Upper Themega and the construction of a new high voltage line that allows to serve the Algarve, region that has only two high voltage electricity inputs from the large network and needs a third, so that this comfort is absolutely natural. The question on lithium, put by both Mr Emídio Guerreiro and Mr Deputy of the Greens, to whom I welcome, I say that lithium is absolutely essential for the energy transition. In fact, without lithium we will not be able to store a very expressive part of the electricity produced from renewable sources. We need lithium, so essentially this is the technology we have and this will develop in the near future. Who, with all nature—and this does not even have any meaning beyond the words— has attributed the grant of that lithium mine to the PSD government. It's a fact! It granted an authorization for research, exploration and consequently exploitation. At the conclusion of the first stage, a contract was, of course, signed, because the law is clear — it is very clear! — by saying that there can be no exploitation without an environmental impact assessment. And there will be no exploitation without an environmental impact assessment! They think very badly and make a mistake — and this was mentioned by Mr Rui Rio in his first intervention — when they compare this exploitation with another one in which it was denied, and very well, the exploitation on an experimental basis. There will be no exploitation, either on a final basis or on an experimental basis, without an environmental impact assessment. That is why this process is absolutely clear. The Lusourrecurses company has indicated, as it is absolutely normal... in fact, I apologize, but I anticipate it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will find out that solar power contracts, which have been won by large companies in the world, will eventually be signed with companies created for this purpose, I don't know if three days before, whether a week before or on the eve. This is always how things work. Now, are they all very scandalous with the company's capital that signed the contract, which gave 50 000 euros, but do you know what the capital of the initial company was for which, by the way, many now cry crocodile tears? It was $5,000. Honestly, I cannot understand where it is obvious that the law has been met with all rigor, and, as important as that, that the results of the environmental impact assessment will be met with all rigor. Although we are clearly pondering environmental interests, the exploitation of lithium in Portugal has an environmental interest, which is to allow our society and our economy to decarbonise. We are comparing environmental interests, which I will call global, with local environmental interests, and, of course, if, in each of the farms, the local environmental interests injured are more relevant than the global environmental interests, there will be no such exploitation of lithium. Mrs Deputies, regarding the licenses of the past, I did not say—but I did not say so! — that there could not be anything that was already in the protected area, and I know very well what my concept of protected area is and, with all respect, it is not like Christmas, that is, it is not like Man to want it. The protected areas are the natural parks, the protected landscapes themselves, the only national park we have and the SICs or the ZECs, which, to this end, are exactly the same thing as the Natura 2000 Network. It is not valid to say « I have now protected this». That's not worth it! With regard to the competition that the Government will launch, what I said, and I repeat, is that three of the 12 areas where there is a potential for lithium are excluded because they were largely in protected areas or in natural parks. Nine remained, but one of them, that of Serra de Arga, has a plot in order of 30 % to 40 % in an area of the Natura 2000 Network and therefore also this area has been excluded, i.e. there will be no exploitation of lithium. None of the areas we now launch the competition will be in a protected area or in a Natura 2000 site. But I also tell you, Mrs. Member, that I give more than a sweet to those who can show me the difference between a lithium mine and a feldspato mine, and in this country there are 50 of them working perfectly. There is only one lithium mine in this country, which is located in Guarda, and is an example of green mining, referred to worldwide. Mr Duarte Alves, in fact, we are not going to break any contract that comes back on electricity production from renewable sources. No, we're not going! We will not go and we have a very great comfort right now, which is to realize that the production of electricity from renewable sources creates a surprise for consumers. at a time when, in MIBEL (Iberian Electric Energy Market), the price runs around €45/ MWh, in auction — and I don't even go to the world record value, to be accused of nothing – we say that the average production value is €20/ MWh. And this difference of 25 € for each megawatt that comes to be produced has only one destination, which is, of course, to relieve consumer turnover. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, you are absolutely right. We have even heard what the Block tells us, and we have heard with great pleasure, and we feel that, and do not take me to harm, we feel that sometimes we are not heard by you. We did not hear a word from the Left Block about the success we had with solar power auctions. If we hadn't done it, the Sines power station wouldn't have closed in 2023. I have always, with great pleasure, heard the Left Block and the NAP refer extensively to the relevance of the creation of energy communities. Yeah, we raised them, but we didn't hear any applause. With this, I think I conclude the answers to the questions you have asked me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u272	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for clarification, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u273	Madam President, I have listened carefully to Mr Duarte Alves' reply, which in good time raised the issue of excessive energy income. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about the final answer he gave, because he said that the government will not break contracts. This is a startling answer when, a few months ago, the Socialist Party recommended that, in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, after 200 hours of work and that the study and analysis of these contracts be completed, not one or two but 27 times — in 27 recommendations which it adopted with its vote — the review of the conditions under which these companies operate. Now, to review the conditions of business operation in a regulated strategic sector such as electricity is just the most normal thing in a modern economy and in the European Union. We're not talking about energy sovietization...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u274	It'd be better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u275	Balcanization!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u276	There are tastes for everything! As I was saying, we are not talking about energy sovietisation, we are talking about a policy of sound management of national strategic resources. And the Socialist Party, which studied this subject very much over the many hours of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, concluded that it was necessary to review how these companies are being paid and that this would not be to break contracts, it was only good governance. In view of these recommendations, the Government tells us today that it is all dead letters, to throw into the trash can and that the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission has been lost and has not served for anything. On solar auctions, Minister, it is worth returning to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. It is true that it is to celebrate, because even the expectations of the government, which said that below 30 € / MWh companies would not be profitable, were largely exceeded as the auction ended in the 20 € / MWh. However, it is appropriate to compare this value with that which will be paid, at the same time, with the illegitimate extent of wind pay. And often they are even the same companies that have now won in solar energy that will receive 60 € / MWh and 65 € / MWh, thanks to a measure that the PSD and CDS government approved during the troika. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u277	Therefore, in view of this disparity, of the excessive income that has been introduced and that the Socialist Party, in the Government — however, in the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, the Socialist Party recommended that this regime be revised — not to review, solar auctions are a good example of the strict need to review a remuneration for market levels, Mr Minister. We are talking about market levels and, therefore, what was suggested by the Committee of Inquiry was to refer the remuneration of the wind turbines to this level. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u278	The Minister did not reply to the honourable Member of the CFP, and I therefore insist on the question of the availability of the Socialist Party and the Government to review the VAT rates for electricity and gas, which are 23 % and which should be reviewed for essential goods whose universal access must be guaranteed, and we have a country with very high energy poverty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u279	Mr João Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of the Environment, in this House in the previous Parliament, the Secretary-General of the CFP asked Mr Prime Minister if he was available to spend the same amount he spent on the forest as he did on the banks. Neither did Mr. Prime Minister answer, nor did the government spend that money. Now, the step has been to dismantle the Ministry of Agriculture, in a concept that separates agriculture from the forest, revealing that this government has in fact definitely abandoned agroforestry policy, has given up the integrated vision of the two dimensions, in a framework where the forest is now threatened not only by environmental factors but mainly by economic and social factors. Mr Minister, in addition to guaranteeing the forestry arrangement for the CFP, defending the forest imposes an increase in the price of timber in production. It is necessary to deal with the monopoly dictatorship of the largest companies in cellulose, agglomerates, biomass and cork, it is necessary to wager in the valorization of national production and economic diversity, but, above all, to defend the forest is to defend agricultural and family forestry production. Yes, Minister! It is that family farming is a friend of the environment. Not to fight the deepest causes that contribute to the abandonment of the rural world and to the violence of fires that result in the ruin of family agriculture and the devaluation of multifunctional forest and production is to give up the forest, it is not to want to do what needs to be done. What is required is an alternative policy that defends employment, public services and the State's unconcentrated structures, without which the abandonment of the rural world and consequently the major fires are fatal. It is that without people it is not possible to manage the forest. It is necessary to change the nature of the policies implemented by successive governments and the European Union, starting with the new Common Agricultural Policy. So, Minister, I ask you: how will you solve the main problems of forest management without a policy of public support for agriculture and family forest production? What measures will you implement to ensure fair income to forest production? Do you have proposals for the regulation of the wood market? Is it available to carry out cuts in public support to large companies that profit from rapid growth species? Within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy, what requirements will you make to defend the necessary support for the forest? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u281	Mr. Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u282	Mr President, Mr Minister, according to the Climate Portal, as a result of climate change, it is expected that the number of days at risk of extreme fire may range from 9 to 45 days per year to the end of the century. To protect the territory and population of the fires, a structural change of the forest is needed. Today, the eucalyptus represents 26 % of the forest area and, if we add the brave pine, they represent almost half. The current situation is dangerous because these species are less fire resistant than the native leafy, typical Mediterranean, and because their territorial expression is abusive. Throughout the country, we have found dozens of consecutive kilometers of eucalyptus and brave pine. Furthermore, the eucalyptus is a species with invasive behavior, which advances indiscriminately on the burned and abandoned areas. It was therefore pleased that we found, among the intentions of the Government Programme, « the diversification of the landscape » and « the conversion of the existing area to species more adapted to the territory, with a view to resilience to fire risks ». What is not included in the Programme is the measures to achieve these objectives. So I ask: what concrete measures does the government have to force the diversification of the landscape, which leads forest producers to invest in alternative species of eucalyptus and brave pine? What are the objectives of the government to achieve, in terms of area and location, new plantations of leafy and fire resistant species? Is the Government available to review the regional forestry planning plans so as not to consider eucalyptus as a priority species? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u283	Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this is my first intervention in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, and I begin by greeting the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Mr Minister, the environmental problems we face are not exhausted from climate issues; they go far beyond that and require a courageous action that puts the interests of the people and ecological balance first. One of the major concerns must be the management of water resources. The lack of water volume of the Tejo and Ponsul rivers has reached historical values and demonstrates, on the one hand, the problems of the rules of the Albufeira Convention and the management of transvases by the Spanish Government and, on the other hand, the problems of private management of dams and profit-oriented enterprises, without the concern of ensuring flows that safeguard ecosystems and biodiversity in national rivers. Public management of water resources, rational and planned management of the various resources, in which the State assumes its decisive role in combating environmental degradation and facing the interests of private groups. It is necessary for the Government to take a stand for national interests and to ensure stable flows through the definition of instantaneous flows at every moment as a solution for international rivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u286	Is the Government willing to move forward in this direction? Finally, I would like to ask what commitment the Government has made with regard to strengthening the means that enable the environment to be placed on the real map of priorities and to provide the State with the capacity to intervene in this area. Does it intend to strengthen the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) and the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests with the necessary means, in particular the human resources, to ensure its present and future action? Or, on the contrary, will you postpone what is possible and what is necessary again? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u287	Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, the Government's programme for the Azores is summarized at one table and two chairs. That is, they will create a concert council, sit down and talk. But there's nothing to talk about! I was here four years ago and what there is to fulfill, for example, the construction of the two meteorological radars, the construction of the Ponta Delgada chain, the investment in the port of Praia da Vitoria, the specific support to the University of Azores and, above all, since we are talking about the environment, its responsibility, the decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Praia da Vitoria, due to the responsibility of the American presence at Base das Lages. Mr Minister, total decontamination has not been made in the last four years. The question is: What will be your responsibility for the next four years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u289	You now have the floor to Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u290	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the Government's programme repeatedly and well affirms the centrality of environmental issues and the need to combat climate change. In the chapter on the circular economy, the topic « Better use of water we have » advances, among other measures, with the need to deepen the Albufeira Convention, ensuring daily flows in the river Tejo. The government wants to review the flows, and we agree, but, at this very moment, the Tejo is in at least historical, not only the consequence of climate change but, essentially, of human action. The true environmental disaster scenario in which the International Roof is located results from the proposed flow of the Cedillo dam, which led to the almost total emptying of the Roof upstream, in particular the Posul and Sever rivers, its tributaries. The ecological, social and economic consequences are enormous throughout the cross-border area, which the Government Programme, and well, says it wishes to affirm. So I would like to ask the Minister the following: what measures and means under the Government Programme will prevent the repetition, in the near future, of this environmental crime announced, in the face of the passivity of APA? What measures are planned to hold the Spanish State and Iberdrola, the Cedillo dam dealership company responsible for the damage not only to ecosystems but also to populations? What measures can we expect to favour and guarantee continuous and daily ecological flows in the water network, following the meeting scheduled for November? The Tejo cannot be a tap that some companies open and close when they want, because water is not a business, it is a right and a basic necessity of all and of all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u291	I would like to inform the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action that he has two further requests for clarification. Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, my first words are to welcome you at this beginning of your mandate and wish you the greatest happiness. You have come to this House to repeat the same set of generalities and the same words to fill, I will say, with which the Government has inflated this programme which is presented today in this Parliament and the country. By wanting to please their former partners, but not wanting to commit to any of them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u293	Yes, yes! The main concern is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u294	... the government has brought us not a Programme but a catalogue of good intentions, I dare say,'manufacturingly' correct. Instead of a programme to address and solve the country's problems, the government brings us a catalogue of good intentions. The environment and climate action do not run away from this rule, on the contrary. We did not know exactly what the government wants and much less when and how it wants to do it. So, Minister, let me ask you three questions that we think are important. Firstly, I would like to ask you about the superfund for the energy transition. We see this reference in the Government Programme, but we are not aware of what it really is, who it is for and what it is for. Is Mr. Minister able to give us any explanation about this superfund? Secondly, I would like to ask you about the Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme. Does the government guarantee the same level of funding from the central state throughout the legislature? Is that how we can read what is written in the Government Programme? Does it allow you to review the program's criteria so that there is territorial equity between the Metropolitan Areas and the rest of the country? I mean, treating differently what's not the same? Finally, Mr Minister, a question that has to do with an issue that we have already addressed throughout the previous Parliament, in this House, several times on Transtex and Soflusa. Will this legislation finally be known and approved by the shareholder state, which you represent, the reports and the accounts of these two companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u296	We're finally going to find out what the accumulated debt of these two entities is? Does the government accept the transfer of these companies to Carris? Under what conditions? Will the debt be parked in taxpayers and go clean for these entities? Or will it be otherwise? Mr Minister, an objective and clear answer to these questions would be very good for our debate and for the country, which awaits this answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u297	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u298	Madam President, Minister, this is a debate about the intentions of the government, but what makes us anxious is that your recent governance has not passed much more than that: intentions and announcements and little realization! The Ministry may now have "climate action" in the name, but this alone does not capture carbon, if there is no courage to face, to disturb and to implement the changes required in society, economy and other areas of governance. In the area of the environment, there is indeed a need for courageous governance, Minister. It is easy to say that it is governed by 2050, but the strategy has to be measurable over time and cannot have gaps where effectiveness fades. And there are several gaps, Minister. We all want to reduce emissions, we all want to decarbonise the economy — it is more than urgent — but the Minister has put the short-term commitments that we had secured in the past and it is still weak where it had to be strong, for example in the energy sector or even in the defence of national interest, in relation to our European partners. For example, the issue of energy interconnections is fundamental to making Portugal an exporter of renewable energy. These are so fundamental that a European Council has been blocked for such an agreement, that it is not now being carried out either in electricity or in gas, such as the projects excluded from the list of projects of common interest of the European Union, while the Government Programme talks about reducing our energy dependence. in this program, we also see green taxation integrated into the strategy for decarbonization, assumed in a framework of fiscal neutrality. Tax neutrality...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u299	That's a myth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u300	Mr Minister, as if your Government were not enough to be a recordr of the greatest tax burden of all time, I remind you that, when you arrived at that place, you inherited the reform of green taxation, which gave certain signs to the economy and promoted sustainable behaviour, based on real fiscal neutrality. It was real, Minister! The revenues of the carbon rate, the rate of plastic bags, were directed to encourage electrical mobility and to lower the IRS of families through the family quotient. And what did Mr. Minister do? Mr. Minister, at the first opportunity, reduced incentives for electric mobility, ended with the family quotient in the IRS and paralysed green taxation, which was progressing in incentives for energy efficiency. If you talk about green taxation and fiscal neutrality today, after all, you have to say how, you have to say how, how and how you have to commit yourself, because we are going to demand accountability for what you announce, but then you contradict what you present, but then you postpone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u301	To respond to these eight requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u302	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the eight Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you have asked me questions. Mr Jorge Costa, with all due respect, it makes no sense today to talk about producing electricity from renewable sources at market prices. It doesn't make any sense! It only makes sense to talk about producing below the market price. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] It only makes sense to talk about producing below the market price. And yes, because obviously the costs of producing and installing wind energy are different from those of solar energy, they also have different values. It's a fact. On the VAT of gas and electricity, there is one thing I confess to agree: the separation between gas and electricity. I think it makes a lot of sense that we can separate VAT rules from gas or electricity so that we can look at each other differently, because electricity can and should always have, in its production, renewable sources. As far as forestry policy is concerned, I want to believe that I have explained myself badly, but many of the things have already been brought forward in my first intervention. The ultimate objective of our forest is, in fact, to be the only carbon slurry we have. And, yes, if this implies talking about the species that are most adapted, it is especially important to talk about the land structure and the whole of people who are holders of the same forest territory. Yes, the CAP needs to look more and more at the forests and we will do everything in order to ensure that the sink, which today is only 9 Mt of carbon, is 13 Mt, as soon as possible. It is that, in order to be carbon neutral in 2050, we have to reduce the burning area to half each year and it naturally obliges the design of a whole new landscape. Therefore, answering Mr Ricardo Vicente's question, we even want to diversify the landscape and the main tool that we call'remunerating ecosystem services'. No territory can live with less income. The PNPOT (National Territorial Policy Programme) was approved in this House clearly and we know that those who today are commonly low-density territories will be in the near future, that is, we know that they will stay with few people. What they cannot have at all is less income and precisely because they are fundamental to producing ecosystem services that allow life, these services must necessarily be paid. Yes, the deepening of the Albufeira Convention is in our Programme, with the aim of ensuring daily flows to the Tejo River and managing the common water masses. Regarding the question about the decarbonization of the Beach of Victory, it came even from the previous Legislation. Therefore, what the Government is doing is public and who is leading this process are my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs, and the Government of the Republic is obviously very committed to achieving the decontamination of those soils, also knowing who are responsible for their contamination. With regard to the question put by Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, I think there is a misunderstanding. And there's a misunderstanding because the Tagus has no less water. The Tagus has no less water, indeed, they must see that the news is always that the Tejo has little water and that then they speak in the river Ponsul. The Tejo has no less water. In fact, I hope you will never ask the Minister of the Environment what, in essence, indirectly, they are asking: that I ask Spain not to comply with the Albufeira Convention. Actually, that's not what I asked for. I did not ask Spain not to comply with the Albufeira Convention and therefore the water that had to be sent to Portugal was sent emptying the Cedillo album.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u303	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u304	No, no, no! But there's one thing I can't help telling you: you just made a statement of love to the dams!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u305	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u306	How does the Posul River have water? Water in the Posul River is not removed by amount, it is removed by downstream. The Ponsul river had more water because it was in the regulf of its own album, that is, if there was no album, the Ponsul river would almost always be in summer. As there is albueira, the river Ponsul usually has water, which does not occur at this time. But what leads water to the Ponsul River is not the management of any private entity, it is the fact that there is a album that allows, I repeat, downstream and because it is on the edge of the album, it has the same water. Mr Luís Ramos and Mr Bruno Coimbra on energy interconnections, what I can say is that electricity connections with Spain are running within the framework of the plan. It is a fact that there is a apparent disinterest in gas from the indications of French and Spanish regulators, but this decision is a delegated act, and it must still be passed by the European Parliament. Portugal has already made the protest it should do and we will do everything to ensure that this same gas connection is kept alive and is being built. Mr Luís Ramos, the superfund for the energy transition aims to be as successful as the Environmental Fund. It will be recalled that, when the previous government took office, what happened was that, from the revenue of the four funds that came to form the Environmental Fund, no more than 50 % could be executed each year, spending EUR 4, 5 million. What we achieved with the Environmental Fund was to execute 90% of the revenue, spending EUR 1 million, that is, it was a great internal management act by the Administration and the application of public money. We want to do the same for energy, and there are three separate funds that will obviously win by being managed together. The only thing we are still discussing is whether or not we will directly associate this management with that of the Environmental Fund. Mr Deputy, for the accounts of Transtejo and Soflusa, I know what we have inherited, but those of 2014, 2015 and 2016 are already approved, despite the terms we have found to approve, and those of 2017 and 2018 will be approved this year. Also this year, the public service contract for Transtejo and Soflusa will be approved, and I would even like to believe that, constituted the metropolitan transport company of Lisbon — in this particular case, the Lisbon one — is a constitution that is only possible because the former Government has so-called the Transtejo and the Soflusa, which are a very good reason for that company to be set up, to be arrested by it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u307	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u308	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Ministers and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the last few years, Portugal has reached, in the most diverse indicators, milestones which many felt were unattainable. over the last four years, Portugal has settled in perspective of cross-cutting growth and which have been responsible for the economic successes that have been achieved. For four years, they increased investment, consumption and exports. For four years, the economy has diversified and diversified markets have diversified. The foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of our economy have become the driving force behind development that has enabled us to achieve the climate of economic confidence in which we live. The progress made during the last legislature still lacks a new impetus, new dynamics and other coverage, particularly in territories whose competitiveness is determined not to follow the desirable rhythms and already achieved by regions with better performance. If, in the last four years, a plan for cohesion began to be drawn up and implemented, the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, in this legislature, the centrality and transversality of this design have responded to the determination with which the Government faces the challenge of developing a country as a whole. Cohesion policies must have a comprehensive view and the political force that enables the movement and competition of all governance instruments. The establishment of new centralities in remote and remote territories, which can accommodate the investment of those who use their product or their service not for that local market in particular, but for a global market, is certainly a greater gain than the mere location of the productive factors in new coordinates. On the one hand, the strengthening of private investment will bring new opportunities, with the creation of new jobs, but, as this is not enough, the contribution to the growth of the national economy can be even more impressive, taking into account the potential and the growth margin of these same territories. On the other hand, the use of these new centralities at the scale of the unexplored Iberian market will be a catalyst for the profitability of projects. Public policies at the service of a new reality, a new moment and an ambitious and renewed country make sense if they are able to transform a reality that cries for the future. Many areas of government, if not all, will be called to this task. When you have the opportunity to build a new world, as you are doing, changing paradigms and investing realities, you have to mobilize resources, mobilize people, mobilize companies and institutions. As a result of the Government's programme presented to us, which is more significant from the point of view of the move towards cohesion is undoubtedly the fact that, at the same time, a new vision for the national economy is also promoted. The announced Economy 4.0, even more so having as one of its main pillars digital transition, places the possibility of Portugal using substantial part of its territory on an equal footing in relation to other regions with higher levels of development. Indeed, innovation induced by public policies in the national economy, either through knowledge transfer programmes, in partnership with universities and politicians, or through the creation of a network of collaborative laboratories, will enhance, without any doubt, what is now called « the fourth industrial revolution ». The question as to whether the State itself should again have an industrialization policy, as happened decades ago, is clear: Portugal will be an ambitious country, the protagonist of an industrial vanguard, which uses new and modern environmentally sustainable processes and in which knowledge is a decisive factor in the value chain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, the biggest and most complex question to which the Government Programme responds is that we know what country we want, where we walk and which road we walk. What project do we have for Portugal? This response is set out in the Agenda for the Decade, in the Socialist Party's electoral programmes and, above all, in the Government Programme that we are discussing today. This response is given by the action of the Government of the Socialist Party: a country with less inequality and more development, a modern, attractive, energetic country capable of overcoming the challenges of the future. What motivates us today and every day is to have a whole Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u309	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u310	Thank you very much, Madam President. I welcome you in my first speech in this Parliament, welcoming all the Members of this House in you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of each legislature we join in this House for the government to present its programme before the elected representatives of the people. This is the moment when we lay the foundations for the next four years, seeking to match the expectations and trust of a people who have chosen to pursue the path that has been taken since 2015, but without failing to look at the challenges of a world in constant change. by organising its Programme around four strategic challenges whose reach is medium- and long-term, the Government is not mistaken in the urgency of some of the measures to be taken. Medium-term strategic challenges are at stake, of course, but whose responses presuppose policy measures to be taken in the present and with day-to-day effects of citizens. We are therefore not delaying the scrutiny of the evaluation, but responding carefully to the country's challenges. The challenges of the next decade begin to be solved in the present. They are fundamental policies on structural challenges and which should deserve extensive discussions in this House. That is our commitment. But the signs that we have seen in the election campaign, in the public space and already at the beginning of this debate are unfortunately going in the opposite direction. Those who complained most said that the government was supposedly sailing in sight and had no courage to reform are the first, as you saw this morning, to exchange the debate on our collective future by the controversy of social networks or by the latest news. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CH and CDS-PP Member Protests Cecilia Meireles.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to develop two priorities of the Government Programme: the challenge of demographic dynamics and the fight against all kinds of inequalities. Firstly, the demographic challenge. The diagnosis is known and is shared by large sectors of our society and even by most parliamentary benches of this House. For every 100 young people, there are today 159 elderly people, and this number more than doubled since 1990, when for every 100 young people there were 68 elderly people. The average age of the mother, at the birth of her first child, rose from 25 years in 1990 to 30 years in 2018, with the consequences that this naturally has for the number of children each woman has. In Portugal, women and men claim to wish to have two or more children, but their real expectation is not to reach both. throughout the last legislature, the right policies have yielded results: job creation and job insecurity reduction; income increase; social status development. All these policies have contributed to creating conditions for improvement in two key indicators: the number of children each woman has and the migration balance. In fact, there is more and better work today. More than 350 000 jobs were created and the net change in employment was justified, in the overwhelming majority, by definitive links. And not only did the minimum wage rise almost 20 % as the average net monthly income of workers rose 9, 2 % since the end of 2015. Other measures were crucial to increasing family income. Family allowance has increased in an expressive way, free manuals, the reduction of propines and new social passes are examples of this. And we have results. throughout the last legislation, the synthetic fertility index rose from 1, 3 in 2015 to 1, 41 in 2018, this is the highest value since 2005. After six years in which it presented negative values, the migration balance returned in 2017 to present positive values and in 2018 a new positive value, a migration balance of more than 11 000 people. But we want to do even better and the Government Programme has solutions to meet the demographic challenge. Complex problems shared by most developed countries do not have simple answers and those who want to respond with a saving measure to these challenges, as if there was a magic wand to end one day with decades of trends, not only is it not being serious as it is deliberately trying to mislead the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u311	That is why the Government's strategy is clear: to create conditions for women, men and families to have their children who aspire to have, improving the conditions for access to housing, reducing precariousness and having a higher quality employment, continuing to improve income and strengthening the access of young families to child support services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u313	In short, the opposite of what parties stand for on our right, always so concerned with aging and the crisis of birth, but without questioning the contradiction between this concern and its proposals of always: liberalizing the housing market; disregulating the labour market; pursuing a policy of reduction of rights. All right-wing answers are contradictory to the need for life stability for families who think they have the children they want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this framework that, in this legislation, we have made different commitments, such as: to increase tax deductions, based on the number of children, but not to differentiate children according to the income of parents; to create the complement-creche, attributing to all Portuguese who have children in the daycare centres the value of 60 € monthly, universal, which supports the participation of families in the price of the daycare facilities from the second child; to create a housing park with public housing support at affordable costs, oriented to respond to intermediate income aggregates; to actively apply the legislative changes to reduce working precariousness, which entered into force on 1 October. For the Government, the objective of creating conditions for the Portuguese to have children they want to have does not mean that we do not look at the demographic challenge in the light of the world in which we live in the light of the twenty-first century. This implies taking Portugal as an open country to the world and to those who choose Portugal to live. in this field, the Government Programme proposes to create a temporary short-term title allowing immigrants to enter Portugal legally with the aim of seeking the first job; to establish a clear separation between police functions and administrative functions for the authorisation and documentation of immigrants; to simplify and expedite the types and processes for obtaining visas and residence permits, reducing the complexity of existing titles; to generalize teaching of Portuguese to non-Luxophone foreigners, because we well know that the Portuguese language domain is a fundamental element for integration. Meeting the demographic challenge does not sum up trying to reverse the fall of birth. It also involves dealing with the consequences of population ageing, especially in the challenges that it poses to social protection systems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u315	...and also redefine public policies to have more adequate responses to an increasing number of citizens over 65 years old. Thus, we propose to double the rate of investment in integrated continuous care responses, in relation to the previous legislation, ensuring the provision of more beds of internment and the implementation of the different types, foreseen in the network until the end of the Legislation. We also propose that part-time reform mechanisms be put in place, as a form of promoting active ageing and remaining in the labour market, of course optional, in a framework for the deterioration of working hours. We also intend to deepen the diversification of sources of funding for social security, as happened in the past legislation, namely by extending the logic, created in the previous Legislation, of the provision of tax revenue for strengthening the system and implementing the figure of the chronic patient manager, because the SNS confronts increasingly older citizens and that, for more and more time and more frequently, they need to seek. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the commitments we have made here some will say — and they have already done so today — that they are only promises. To those I wanted to remind you that we are here, after a legislature in which we had an objective, which they said utopian, we defined a strategy, which they said impossible, we executed a Programme, which they said was dangerous. And we had results, which the Portuguese recognized in the polls. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Also on the subject of inequalities the diagnosis is known, it is widely discussed, although perhaps less consensual. We are witnessing a global phenomenon of increasing concentration of wealth, on which we need to act, also at national level. Despite the significant progress in more recent years and of today's lowest level of inequalities, Portugal was one of the countries of the European Union with the highest income inequality in 2018. The disparity between wages of men and women in monthly remuneration is 18 %, even more impressive in the upper tables, more than 27 %, and in highly qualified professionals, more than 20 %. Portugal also has a level of qualifications far from its European partners. Despite progress, 50 % of the population aged 15 to 64 has secondary education, and this value reaches 75 % on the European Union average. during the last legislation we took measures in job creation, in the increase of 20 % in the national minimum wage, in the enhancement of social benefits, the RSI (social income of inclusion), the CSI (supportary complement for the elderly), the social benefit for inclusion or family allowance, in the continued increase of pensions. But also in the law of balanced representation, in combating school failure, in democratizing access to higher education. We have taken action and we have results. From 2015 to 2018, more than 180 000 Portuguese came out of poverty risk condition and more than 380 000 came out of severe material deprivation condition. The representation of women in the listed companies rose from 12 % in August 2017 to 19 % in June 2019 and from 11 % to 24 % in the supervisory bodies. The early school dropout rate, as mentioned earlier this morning, fell from 13, 7 % in 2015 to 10, 8 % in the first half of this year, approaching the European Union average, which is 10, 6 %, but above all approaching the 10 % target of Europe 2020. Finally, the number of students enrolled for the first time in higher education increased 21% between 2015 and 2019. But we want to do more and better, and the Government Programme has measures that aim to respond to this challenge. First, by reducing inequalities in its origin and giving in the educational system one of its most important answers: ensuring that everyone, whatever their origin, has the conditions to continue, through their education, and to fulfil all their ambitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, we propose to create an early detection system of literacy and numeracy problems in pre-school and stimulate linguistic skills. We propose to continue the reduction of school failure, particularly in basic education and mathematics, and continue the path of democratizing access to higher education, increasing scholarships and residences and ensuring automatic access to school social action scholarships, when the student has benefited from a social action grant in secondary education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, active action is needed to reduce income inequality. In addition to the increase in the minimum wage and the income agreement presented by the Prime Minister in his tenure speech and today, we will seek to create a system of incentives for companies to reduce wage inequalities and penalties for those who have excessively unequal salary leques. We are committed to increasing the solidarity complement for the elderly, whose value must rise to the poverty threshold, so that a measure that has proved effective gains a renewed relevance in combating poverty among the elderly. We also commit ourselves to stressing the progressiveity of the IRS by reviewing, among other measures, their steps. Finally, we commit ourselves to pursuing the path of promoting gender equality and to strengthening the fight against all discrimination, ensuring compliance with the laws of gender equality in the administrative bodies of public undertakings and listed societies and of balanced representation in the leadership positions of the Public Administration and promoting effective conditions of reconciliation between work and family and personal life, continuing Programme 3 in Line and implementing an agreement in social consultation. But, above all, we commit ourselves to continuing, in a committed manner, to preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, continuing to expand the victim support network and implementing urgent response measures within the first 72 hours, the training of all professionals on the ground and articulating the data, which each State department has, so that we can better know reality and intervene in a timely manner about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four years ago, when we discussed the 21st Government Programme, the great challenge of the opposition was the idea that the policies then proposed were impossible and would lead the country to a new crisis. The strategy was wrong, they said, and it would have disastrous consequences. Those predictions have failed. in the second moment, the problem was no longer the wrong strategy, but the lack of strategy. The former government only thought of day by day, they said, and that would have diabolical consequences. Again, they failed. Finally, after the criticism that the strategy was wrong failed, after the criticism that there was no strategy that had also fallen, the problem was the execution. But, year after year, Budget after budget, the main measures of the Government Programme have been implemented. The right-wing forecasts failed again. Despite the constant insistence of the prophets of misfortune, the government has again drawn its objectives, realized in the Program we are discussing today: it presents a path and identifies four strategic axes of intervention, seeking to respond to the structural problems of the country and to the needs of the Portuguese daily. This is the goal and this is the strategy to achieve it, and that is what we are defending today. And as much as any opposition wants to ride the paths of easy populism, we will be here today, tomorrow and in the next four years, to talk about the present, to present solutions and proposals for the future responding to the problems, aspirations and aspirations of all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u316	Mrs. Minister, 10 were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. I assume that you would like to answer five to five, and now you have the floor to that effect, Mr António Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u317	Mr President, the Minister of State and the Presidency, the question I am going to put has to do with equality from the point of view of immigration. If there are people who, irrationally, see immigration as a threat, we see it not only as an inevitable social phenomenon, but as a phenomenon that the country can benefit greatly. The question is that there is a welcome policy that is reasonable, i.e. that there are policies to receive, to socialize immigrants, in order to recognize the rights of immigrants that allow them to have a proper social inclusion. Here, from our point of view, there is a correct legislative development that still needs to be done. In fact, we cannot allow a situation in which a worker who has illegally entered our country — who aims to work, survive and support himself and his family and who does not come to live at the expense of anyone — has to work to have a better life — has to depend on an exceptional situation, exceptional regularization and often discretionary giving them to their fate or to their lack of luck. We understand that Portuguese legislation must find a reasonable way to allow the integration of these workers and their families, not only in the labour market but in Portuguese society, with all the rights that must be recognised to the citizens. This is an evolution that must be made and we will not continue to deal with a situation in which, at the level of the regularization of foreign citizens, there are difficulties in later selling facilities. This is not a situation with which the Portuguese State should deal, so we hope that the Government will have this sensitivity and promote the necessary legislative changes capable of finding a pragmatic but reasonable and human solution to the reception of immigrants who seek us to have a better life, that solution with which our country can greatly benefit. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u318	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u319	Madam President, Minister of State and Presidency, the first and priority demographic challenge facing us is to respond to aging by dignifying older people and responding to their problems. The greatest of these problems is poverty. We live in a country where old age and poverty are justifiable as a result of very low pensions that are only limited by reform supplements. Responding to this demographic challenge implies a choice that has been most efficient in combating the poverty of older people in the past four years: extraordinary increases in pensions, especially those of the lowest. Mrs Minister, given the importance of this measure for a response to the current demographic challenge, which is the poor old age, we are very concerned about the absence of any reference in the Government Programme on this hypothesis of extraordinary increase in pensions. from there our clear question: will the government continue the policy of extraordinary increases in lower pensions? But the demographic challenge is also the response to the generations present, so I want to ask you a question about what has to be another of the strongest areas of policies to combat inequalities and discrimination, precisely in the generations present, which your Ministry, certainly in conjunction with other ministries, is challenged. I am referring to the fight against the rights of people with disabilities, and I would like to ask you to clarify this. The Government's programme assumes as a 'great legislative plan' — I am quoting the Government's programme — a national plan to promote accessibility. We agree, of course, but it happens that in 2017, by previous government decree, technical teams were set up to promote accessibility in each ministry with the mandate to enforce technical accessibility standards in the constructions of each ministry. These teams, of course, have already shown results and they are fundamental so that it doesn't start from scratch, only that no one knows these results. Madam Minister, do you or do you not have a detailed survey, department or department, of the barriers to be breached by the plan now announced or the plan will be waiting for a survey that, after all, is going to be done? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u320	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u321	Madam President, Minister of State and the Presidency, I would like to ask you to clarify three topics, in particular on domestic violence, trafficking in human beings and inclusion. In 2018, the death of 28 women was reported, but data from RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report) accounted for 39 homicides in the context of domestic violence. this year are already 30 victims of domestic violence reported in our country. In view of this reality, how does the Government intend to implement an integrated approach in criminal, protective and protective processes relating to the practice of these crimes, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe? in an investigation published by the Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality in July this year, only 152 chambers form part of the solidarity network of municipalities in order to encourage the empowerment of victims of domestic violence through the provision of housing or rental support. Does the government plan a solution for a victim of domestic violence to have this response, regardless of where he lives? in another way, we know that the victims are in a situation of high psychosocial fragility. What do we ask you, Minister, is it if the Government is available to give more support to the victims, including by equating a paid licence so that they can deal properly with the outcome? Another social scourge that we want to bring to this debate concerns trafficking in human beings. The public data show that Portugal has already occupied the second place in 28 with regard to trade for labour exploitation, which, of course, should concern us all and all. We know that in order to overcome this phenomenon, it is necessary to combat poverty structurally, an integrated policy of immigrants, but also to strengthen the structures of the supervisory bodies and support the non-governmental organisations working in this area. So, Madam Minister, we ask : does the Government intend to reinforce the transitional responses to the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings, which guarantee the basic conditions for survival and the psychosocial follow-up of these victims and their minor children, allowing their personal, economic, housing and social reorganization? Given also the constant overcrowding of shelters and protection centres to victims of trafficking in human beings, how does the Government intend to respond to these needs? Finally, and according to the Report of the Monitoring Centre for Disability and Human Rights, although there has been an increase in the number of students with special educational needs in secondary and higher education, only about half of higher education institutions provide for adaptations and responses to support these students. In addition, there is evidence at the level of education professionals that reveals training needs for inclusive education. Madam Minister, will the Government support higher education institutions in their facilities in providing support and follow-up to the student with special educational needs? Finally, the risk of poverty or social exclusion is higher among people with disabilities than among people with disabilities. This risk is compounded by the difficulties faced by people with disabilities in their daily lives, either in access to education, the labour market and public services. Accessibility, particularly to transport, is a fundamental aspect which we find to be little addressed or forgotten in the Government Programme. So what does the government undertake to achieve in order to respond to the needs of people with disabilities with regard to accessibility to public transport? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u322	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u323	Mr President, Minister of State and the Presidency, our country faces serious demographic problems, with consecutively negative birth rates, aggravated reality with the expulsion of hundreds of thousands of young people here who did not find life expectancy. The problem is solved only by creating conditions so that young people can have children. One of the fundamental issues is the improvement of wages, because the income of families, their livelihood, is the way to generate security in their lives and the possibility of planning, according to their desire, the same. Plan lives with stable employment, with the guarantee of the right to free daycare, with fair social support, with housing at controlled costs. Young people want to have children, to be a family, but only with a guaranteed gift is possible to realize dreams. But what is offered to them is a gift without doctors, like the scandal we witnessed at Garcia de Orta Hospital, for example. Madam Minister, is this government available to ensure that all workers are entitled to a weekly working time of 35 hours without loss of pay? Is it available to be a progress agent and, on the other hand, to guarantee more free time for parents to be with their children? Is the government available to ensure quality public employment in the interior regions, to ensure that the young people are fixed there? For example, can you announce the reopening of a public service in one of these regions? Without concrete measures, Mrs. Minister, or on the coast, children will be born, especially on the inside. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u324	Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u325	Madam President, Minister of State and Presidency, I would like to ask you about one of the major challenges of our country and Europe, which is the demographic challenge. The fact is that, in the short term, it cannot be resolved without further immigration, and immigration is needed today to meet the labour needs that we now feel not only in Portugal but throughout Europe and in the most varied sectors of the country's economic activity. Without immigration we will not be able to meet these labour needs and, therefore, we will not be able to have economic development and, with that, the Portuguese will not be able to have any more prosperity. I therefore believe that it is important that the Government Programme gives priority to regulating migration flows and, above all, to an important issue, which is the documentation of immigrants. This question is not resolved by throwing laws on the problem, because those laws we have. We have still recently passed a law that allows all workers who, although entering our country irregularly, are placed in the labour market, allowing, through the presumption of their legal entry, to legalize these people. What is important, I think, is to invest in procedures, and these must, once and for all, be simplified and, above all in the digital age, automated without coming to us with the ghost of security, because automated systems allow not only to expedite administrative procedures as better service to those to whom they are intended, and in a much safer way for the State. So the question I put to you, Mrs Minister, is the following: when will we finally invest in computerized systems, both at the level of consulates and the Foreign and Border Service, to allow as simple things as renewing the online residence permit? It is true that until a little while ago this possibility was protected by law, but fortunately the former Government has already overcome this obstacle, approving legislative measures so that requests could not be present, could be made online, and so that procedures could be digitized, thus saving human resources, which are as necessary for other tasks, such as supervision, and ending up once and for all with the principle of distrust relatively not only to the foreigner but also to the citizen in generation, which is the great entropy of the functioning of the public administration in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u326	In response to these five requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u327	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to start by thanking the questions that the five Members have asked me. Mr António Filipe, I would like to tell you that Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has already given part of my answer Our willingness to make the legislative amendments that are still needed is complete, but we are aware that our work is not now a legislative work—in fact, if it were not the government, it would probably be the Assembly of the Republic—but rather to identify unnecessary procedures, simplify the procedures that are needed, digitize them and make them closer to the people. In the Simple which the previous Government presented in June, we had planned several measures for this problem. One of them was the creation of a card for foreign citizens—and what matters here is not so much the card, but the procedure within the administration—which meant that each person had to contact the service only once. In fact, what matters is to identify the obstacles, remove them, be quick. And the commitment of the Government in its various departments, from the Ministry of Internal Administration, the Ministry of the Presidency, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is to be very fast and effective in the changes to be implemented, particularly in visas, residence permits and residence authorisation renewals. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, your question also has a simple answer, although not so concordant. The strategy we have defined in this Government Programme is very simple: to resume the ISC, which was effectively the measure—just look at the long series of data—that was effective in reducing poverty, as a primary response. If we have, on an annual basis, extraordinary increases in pensions, there is one thing we can no longer call them, which is "extraordinary", because the word "extraordinary" exists precisely for occasional increases. What we know today is the pension update formula to work, the economy growing enough to ensure that, once again, by the third in the consecutive, almost all or the vast majority of pensions will have increases and now it is important to look back at the CIS, raise its level of reference to the poverty threshold to be truly effective in reducing poverty among the elderly, noting that this is one of the age groups where we have made the biggest path and where we have been most effective in recent years. Regarding people with disabilities, we have already been part of the diagnosis you mentioned and what is missing is finding the financial instruments and planning their implementation. We must not hide that it is a very significant, time-consuming work—in fact, the Prime Minister knows - because the Lisbon Chamber also has such work under way, but the fact that it is a long-term work does not mean that we should give up the start and be very persistent in its implementation, being the Ministry of the Presidency, in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, working in this process. Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has asked me many questions and I want to tell you that today our network of municipalities where we territorialize equality policies is larger, i.e., it already covers 218 municipalities, and the Government Programme is committed to extending this network in order to meet the total coverage of the territory. We have done this municipal work to the municipality, signing protocols, and this is a path that we must continue to travel. With regard to persons with disabilities in higher education institutions, the Government Programme envisages the measure of promoting, precisely in conjunction with higher education institutions, the increase of students with disabilities to attend this level of education through the improvement of facilities, which is often still needed, by improving reception conditions, physical and technological equipping and also the creation of a support structure for these students. Therefore, the work will be ongoing during this mandate. With regard to trafficking in human beings, we made a way in the latest legislation, we had 203 signs of this crime, we identified 141 victims, of whom 29 were minors, in 2018 and 2019 about 60 receptions were held and we have also recently adopted rules in the Council of Ministers for urgent reception, rules that could introduce very significant improvements in this area. About domestic violence, the numbers are...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u328	They're embarrassing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u329	... impressive and horrible—there is no other word—they are a responsibility to which the government does not flee, but which does not individually assume, because it is a responsibility of the whole society. Everyone in this Chamber and outside it must understand that we need to work to give answers, and what we did throughout the last legislature was a strong extension of the support network, and even in March last year we asked for a mission structure to look at what was missing. The mission structure, as you know, delivered the work at the end of the previous legislation. I have yet to come and discuss it with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, that was not possible. Now, it is about implementing follow-up measures within the first 72 hours, training measures for the different professionals who are on the ground. And, answering one of the questions that you have asked, which you have had to do with the numbers — and which is always difficult to answer — it is a question of integrating the different databases, because as long as we do not have the whole government working with the same data, intervention in this matter is very difficult. Since the day we received the report we have been working, especially the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Internal Administration and I, and our objective at the moment is to comply with the recommendations of the mission team. I would also like to reply to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party, my almost homonymous one, telling her that it is a fact that the possibility of young people being able to have their children they wish is a long way which involves all the dimensions that you have mentioned. In fact, these dimensions are the ones which I have briefly presented and which are due to the decrease in housing and employment precariousness, which are the most difficult for young people to be emancipated and the possibility of establishing a family or people to be self-sufficient at home of their parents, by increasing the minimum wage, and also referred to by an extended agreement of wage increases, which we have already talked about several times today, and demand a response from the SNS, of course, but essentially require that this answer be integrated and given at the most necessary place. In fact, one thing is maternity, the network exists, we have human resources problems that we are trying to solve, but another thing is support for children and there the Government Programme defends one very important thing: it is in primary care that the first response must be given to any of us, the older citizens and also children, and the capacity of the family health units and primary health care centres to respond to children is to have the specialty of pediatrics working in primary health care. The problems are known to all, it's a long way, but we're going to go through it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u330	Continued with requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u331	Mr President, Minister, measures to combat gender inequalities are fundamental to social transformation and a truly democratic and equal society. We agree on this point. Quoting the Government Programme, I want to focus on the measures they propose to curb the scourge of domestic violence, highlighting three positive measures: the system for signaling potential victims and aggressors; the creation of a single contact point for victims; and the system for integrated treatment of information on domestic violence and homicides in intimate relations. However, Mrs Minister, despite these measures, it is not surprising that the fight against domestic violence, considered by the Government, in the previous legislature, as a national plan, does not continue to benefit from this status. It is that domestic violence has not decreased in recent years or so little feminicides, as this year's black numbers prove. There is no single measure in the Government Programme to implement the recommendations of Grévio ( Group of Experts on Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ) with regard to the full implementation of the Istanbul Convention. I specifically refer to the need for effective protection of children and young people who witness or live in the context of domestic violence and who are also assaulted in this sense. It was 10,000 in four years. As there is no measure to protect information in a crime of proof as difficult as we know it is domestic violence, and the Attorney-General of the Republic has already made a number of calls and recommendations to consider the collection of statements for future memory in this type of crime. I ask you, Minister, whether this Government still chooses the fight against domestic violence as a national plan and is available to support these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u332	Mrs Sandra Pereira from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, welcome to the discussion on the demographic challenge. It is good to hear it, in the representation of the government, speaking of these things, even because we in the Social Democratic Party have already discussed and reflected on the demographic challenge for some time. And see there, Mrs. Minister, that we have even called on the Socialist Party to come to debate with us on the implications of the demographic challenge and the Socialist Party has refused. But it seems to me that, Minister, we will still come in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u334	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u335	I have listened very carefully to it and would first of all, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, like to reaffirm our political commitment to combating inequalities, discrimination and all forms of violence, especially Mrs Minister, violence against women who, in our society, still have a frightening dimension in terms of numbers. I was hoping to hear her talk more about it, about the fight we have to face. But I also understand, Mrs Minister, that with the number of deaths recorded, and that they do not stop increasing, it should be embarrassing to talk about this issue. I would like to say to you, Madam Minister, that the Government's programme is a complete disappointment: it is short, it is vague, it does not set objectives, it does not present concrete measures, it is only a reason for some good intentions. The government does not commit itself, it does not bring anything new, and the worst thing is that it does not have an ambition for the future in these matters, which we would expect from you and the government. Madam Minister, in the Government Programme there are absolutely serious and incomprehensible omissions, from the prevention system, through the victim protection system and its empowerment, to the training of both the security forces and the magistrates, a subject which we have discussed here widely and for which we all recognize the urgent need to intervene. There is therefore a total lack of words on these issues. I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, for example, what is done from enlargement to the entire national territory of the Domestic Violence Aggressors Programme in prison context. Not a written line appears in the Government's programme on this! I tell you that this measure has been in pilot project since 2017, with the Directorate-General for Resettlement and Prison Services already said that it was ready to move forward and that it only needed funding. That is why it is not understood that this does not happen, especially when, above all, it was the subject of an absolutely specific recommendation of the Retrospective Domestic Violence Crime Analysis Team to extend this programme to the entire national territory. Mrs. Minister, you spoke in demography and speak in demography is also talking about active aging. I would like to ask you what the Government's strategy is with regard to combating violence against the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u336	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u337	The Government's programme only tells us that we need to fight it, but this, Minister, is a truth from La Palice, we all know and we all agree with it. What we want to know is how the government intends to do it, by what means, by what priorities. There is nothing in the Government Programme to say. Ms. Minister, she spoke about the issues of domestic violence and the Final Report of the Multidisciplinary Technical Commission for the Improvement of Prevention and Combating Domestic Violence. I would like to tell you that it is shameful that we have done here a day of national mourning, that Mr Prime Minister has committed himself to introducing measures for the practical application of Article 29 within three months. o -A, which deals precisely with the imposition of urgent measures to support the victim and of coercion measures to the attacker, but then we will see that these measures, which we all realize can save victims, are not being implemented. It is shameful, Mrs Minister, that, after six months and three months on the conclusions of this technical report, there is not even a measure, a guidance on this matter. Therefore, for this government, the fight against domestic violence consists of a lot of propaganda and very little concrete work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u338	Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister of State and the Presidency, addressed the issues of demography and birth in her speech. The low birth we have in the country is not at all fatality, it does not even result from chance, there are concrete causes on which we need to intervene. If families don't have children anymore, it's not because they don't want to, but because they can't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u340	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u341	The low wages, precariousness, unemployment, the deregulation of working hours, the run-up to maternity and paternity rights, the reduced social support, the absence of a public network of day care centres, an insufficient public network of kindergartens, the difficulties in access to health and housing, all this conditions and prevents families from having children who actually want to have. We must respond to this reality by finding solutions to the problems that are at the root of this whole situation. Wages must be valued, including raising the national minimum wage for the €850, as proposed by the CFP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u342	It is necessary to guarantee employment with rights, to fulfil maternity and paternity rights, but it is also necessary to strengthen the social protection of children, to increase and extend the family allowance with a view to universalization, as the CFP has defended, because family allowance is a right of all children. It is necessary to ensure a public network of daycare centers, with coverage throughout the country, ensuring a free daycare, or equivalent solutions, for all children up to 3 years old, as the CFP proposes. Until there it is necessary to promote transitional solutions that guarantee the same freeness by 2020, but that are not believed to work 24 hours a day or seven days a week, as many employers want, or that respond to the hours and working rhythms that want to impose on workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u343	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u344	Children, mothers and parents, families need time to live. There must be decent times for parents, time for children to play, learn, socialize and time for parents and children to be together. Madam Minister, it is necessary to reduce working hours to 35 hours for all workers, as the CFP proposes, and it is necessary to effectively combat the deregulation of working hours, as the CFP advocates. These are concrete proposals, Mrs Minister. Is the Government available to converge with the CFP on these proposals in order to ensure the necessary and fair response to children and families in our country? It is that in order to fulfil the rights of children, the rights of working parents and mothers must be guaranteed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u345	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u346	Mrs. Minister, you brought here questions related to demographic dynamics and inequalities. Few things affect both the demographic dynamics and the lack of jobs in the day care centres, and the fact that 8 in every 10 children do not have a job in day care centers in 35 Portuguese municipalities. There is little to say about both inequality and the fact that it is less expensive to put a child in a university — sometimes even private — than in a day-care centre. But let me also add the gender dimension, because when a daycare costs, on average, 300 € and a mother earns the minimum wage, the bills that are made at home we know what they are. Then we are here to account for the gender impacts that have the policies we adopt. The problem with daycare in Portugal and what leads to this reality is that they are seen as assistance to the family, as a social response, when they should actually be included in the public education system. Including them in the public education system means that we recognize the right to attend a daycare, because this will have an impact on their life, their health, their social life, their social inclusion, but also on their educational inclusion. The fact that day care centres are not included in the education system allows the government to come here to propose what it would never propose to the school, which is nothing less than the allocation of a check-check, i.e. it is about feeding the income of the private rather than intervening in the offer. This also allows the government to assign this check-check only to the second child, basically saying that, since the right is not universal, the second child has more rights than the first one. What allows the Government to propose a measure in which the second child has more right and more support than the first to attend a daycare is the fact that daycare is not included in the universal free public education system, that is to say, which has enabled the coverage rate we have today in pre-school. My question is this: is the government willing to guarantee that you raised everyone, but even everyone, children in the public education system? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u347	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mrs Vieira da Silva, we read on page 135 of the Government's programme 'to strengthen the mechanisms for preventing and suppressing hate speech, particularly on social networks'. Knowing that this is a particularly complex topic from a technological, moral, ideological point of view even, and making justice feel that it is not the restoration of censorship that is implied here, I wonder how it will deal with this subject and what it means. Is there any intention to publish special laws—I will read, to be faithful to an old text—in order to « prevent the perversion of public opinion(...) in order to defend it from all the factors which disorient it against the truth»? Is that what this is about, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u349	In response to this second set of requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u350	Madam President, I thank the five Members who have asked me questions again. Starting by responding to Mrs Sandra Pereira, it is true that the PSD has held a debate on the demographic challenge, of which I remember very well. From this debate came a great idea, which was a subsidy of €10,000 for each child born. Do you know what happened to that allowance? It did not appear in the PSD electoral program! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, available for debate on demographic challenges, we are — in fact, indirectly quoted the saving proposals that would solve problems that have lasted for decades. However, for this discussion we are not quite available, nor are the Members. Members of the PSD, otherwise they would have included the proposal in the PSD electoral programme and did not. You tell the honourable Member that I should feel embarrassed about the number of women who have died and the number of victims of domestic violence. I am very ashamed of these numbers, but I am always very embarrassed by the systematic use and use of the party that you do in the Commission where you normally hear me — and that you have done here again today — of a subject that is everyone's, whose answer is very difficult and probably always irresoluble, as we have often mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] Responding directly to the question you have asked me and that, indeed, it has also been asked by Mrs. Member of the Left Block, about whether the issue of prevention and combating domestic violence is a national design and a priority for this government, I say it is. I don't know how the PSD usually works,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u351	I don't think they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u352	... but when a committee of experts is asked to evaluate the main measures and a set of recommendations is made, what we now have to do is comply with. And what we have done is we have adopted a resolution by the Council of Ministers in which the measures provided for in this report are described in detail and what we are doing is working to implement them. I'm sorry, but no one asked for a report to call you. So we waited for the three months—it was up to three months—and our Government Programme, in this matter, as we have often said, is the fulfilment of that resolution of the Council of Ministers and there is no lack of work to do in the next four years. One of the themes that systematically puts me, and rightly so, is violence against the elderly. As I have answered, one of the problems we have to deal with is that the diversity of databases does not really allow us to know the numbers. We can have an impression and we are working in such a way that we have the data to know what territories happen, under what conditions, if there are recurrent complaints, to know reality and to try to answer differently, because the rest is the answer we give to everyone. Mrs Joana Mortágua, on the national plan, has already answered. What I would like to say is simple: the commitments we made in the Council of Ministers resolution that the previous Government approved are the commitments we want to pursue and we leave open in the Government Programme, how to resolve the issue of an integrated action in the family area and in the judicial area on the issues of domestic violence we have also spoken about. Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP and, at least partially, Mrs Joana Mortágua replied that in Portugal we have a daycare coverage rate of about 49 % and that the European reference is 33 %. We can debate, but it is not consensual — I did not want to take part in this debate — that all children should attend the daytime and that is why we should treat daycare as an element of schooling, and that would be the consequence. What are we trying to do? We have sought to create conditions for the European reference, such 33 %, to be fulfilled in all councils. Therefore, it has recently been opened a notice of the Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme, which, with reference to precisely the municipalities in which this coverage does not exist, has a support for the provision of more than 10 000 daycare leave. This is a work that we have to pursue, to which we add two dimensions: the supplement of daycare at the place of payment, which I would not call check, because it is universal and they will all receive from the second child, and tax deductions. If there is work to be done to reduce poverty among children, it is certainly a work that must be integrated and for which we have already taken many steps and answers, particularly in the coverage of primary health care. And this job is to continue. Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, there is something that clearly distinguishes us, which is our faith, let us say, in this way, in the capacity that large companies that operate on social networks, for example, have in relation to making any kind of effective regulation in this matter. Our objective, and that we have come to develop, is very simple: to train children, to train young people, to train citizens, to be able to deal with the information that comes to them. And I, frankly, do not know another real and really effective way to deal with this problem. I think I'm answering all the questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u353	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u354	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Government programme has defined as one of the areas of action to enhance regional autonomy. And if in the previous Government Programme it was mentioned the imperative need to reconcile the country with regional autonomy and, above all, to mobilize autonomous regions for a new relationship level, given the remoteness that existed today, the picture is very different. Over the past four years, we have actually achieved a constructive, cooperative and realistic relationship between the Government of the Republic and the regional governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u355	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u356	We have taken decisive steps, in the case of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, with the development of major international projects such as the AIR Center, the space port, in Santa Maria, and the Centre for the Defense of the Atlantic, in the Lajes. We have taken decisive steps in respecting autonomy, fully fulfilling the law of regional finance and ensuring the revenue of social games for the regions. We have taken decisive steps in health, eliminating the discrimination of the Azorians in access to medical care provided on the continent, and in transport, with the first participation of inter- island links. Also in the context of the Lajes Base file important steps were taken: for the first time, there is a guarantee that the State will intervene in all places where the United States of America does not assume its responsibility; there is a guarantee of aid to the city of Praia de Vitoria for the work of strengthening water supply to the municipality; there is support for the legalization of the neighborhood of Santa Rita, which benefits more than 100 families. More recently, national solidarity was expressed in the participation of 85 % of the damage caused by the passage of Hurricane Lourenço, a much different position than was assumed by the PSD/CDS government, which, in the same situation, ordered the Azores to go to the bank. These are just a few of the many other measures that have also been achieved over the past four years. Now it is important, as the current Programme says, to strengthen the role of regional autonomy and to continue to do even better by the Azores and the Azores, concluding what is still needed to do. We are sure that with this government, the path of continuity of strengthening autonomy is not only desirable as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u357	Mr Pedro Siza Vieira, Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u358	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government presents its programme in this House in a quite different economic framework than that which happened four years ago. The ambition in the previous Programme was not small: reaching a decade of convergence with Europe, with more social cohesion and greater territorial cohesion. But at the economic level, immediate actions were conditional on the precarious financial situation that then existed. For this reason, the first priorities of this Programme were clear and well assumed: regaining family income, reducing unemployment, solving the problem of financing companies. Four years later, the panorama is quite different. when we entered the fourth consecutive year of convergence with Europe, we realized the structural changes that occurred in the country. Business investment and exports supported the growth of the economy, for the sixth consecutive year the external accounts show positive balances, created 350 000 jobs and companies are more capitalised, less indebted and more profitable. The situation of public finances and the stabilization of the financial system have made Portugal the country of the euro area which, over the last three years, has seen the interest in public debt fall, offering the country a real « dividend of stability », which now allows us to invest in public services and in modernising our economy. Today, the country that intends to achieve a decade of convergence with Europe enters the second third of this path. The expectations of Portuguese naturally rose, but at the same time the government is aware of the constraints and challenges facing the country. From now on, the changes that digitisation and automation will bring to companies and businesses cannot be underestimated. New ways of contacting customers, suppliers or partners, new ways of interacting with machines and with the world change how communities organize themselves and how humanity understands and confronts their future. The new technologies of processing, processing and data transmission will not only create new activities, they will profoundly change how the most traditional ones develop and will allow to reduce waste, improve energy efficiency and reuse waste more efficiently. The changes in recent years have been very rapid and extensive and, as technologies spread, they will actually accelerate. These changes are also threatening. The OECD estimates that around 10 % of current jobs will be replaced by machines and that 25% correspond to functions that can be largely automated. Many new jobs will be created, but those who do not have the skills to operate in the new digital environment are at risk of getting on the way. The potential for deregulation of labour relations is also profound and the digital economy is at serious risk of increasing the precariousness of work and weakening the situation of workers. Companies and countries preparing for the challenges that digital transformation poses will grow and prosper; others can become increasingly peripheral. But I prefer to view the process of digital transformation as an opportunity. It enables us to aspire to what Portugal can be, at the end of the next decade, a truly developed society, with a knowledge-based economy, where sustainable productivity growth is based on innovation and people's qualification; an inclusive society, which offers everyone the skills to be able to participate in opportunities created by new technologies and supported by a strong social state; and a country with a more effective and transparent public administration. The importance and speed of digital transformation, however, requires increased attention and closer leadership to ensure the best transition to digital society. In the organization of the government, this requires a coordinated and articulated work between various areas of governance, from then on with the area of infrastructures and communications, in order to accelerate the coverage of the territory by new generation communications networks throughout the country, particularly in low-density territories, and also with the areas of education and higher education. It is in the field of qualifications that Portugal has made more remarkable progress over the course of this century, but it is also far more distant from the European average. We will work on strengthening funding for higher education, but we will seek to see that it is associated with access to new audiences and the promotion of computing skills in all areas of science and technology training. In the area of state modernization, digital transformation offers one of the most powerful opportunities for improving and simplifying public administration. We assume that throughout the legislature the 25 services most commonly used by citizens and businesses will be dematerialized, simplified and available online. We will invest in promoting the use of Internet and digital literature; we will continue the implementation of Industry 4.0, with a view to empowering organizations for digital maturity; we will seek that 50 000 microenterprises in the trade and services sector develop a basic digital presence. We want to work so that Portugal is in line with the development of knowledge in the field of computer science, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. We know that the investment effort of companies should be intensified, but we also know that external markets offer investors a scenario of uncertainty. International trade has slowed down and fallen since 2018. Tension remains among the world's main economies. Portugal has continued to grow above the European average, but at a pace lower than in previous years. External uncertainties cannot divert companies from continuing the structural change effort that depends on their future competitiveness. The Government will not fail to pay attention to the external context and to adjust economic policy, responsibly, to the evolution of the environment, but public policies must even support the strengthening of public and private investment. The Government intends to use the resources at its disposal for this purpose. First, it aims to speed up the pace of public investment in critical areas, to ensure modern infrastructures at the service of businesses and citizens. Public investment in several areas will increase at a rate of more than 10 % per year during the legislature, reaching a value of EUR 10 billion in the framework of that legislation and adding-to-CL - more than EUR 3000 million of private investment in ports and strengthening airport capacity in Lisbon and Porto. Investment, both public and private, will alone be a growth factor in the economy and will also strengthen the future competitiveness of Portuguese companies. Secondly, we propose to use public financial instruments to support business investment. Finally, we will create a genuine national promotional bank, from the integration of the various financial societies of the Ministry of Economics. Within the next 100 days, this new institution should be set up and equipped with sufficient resources to provide Portuguese companies with the means of financing appropriate for its transformation. This new institution will also function as a green bank, supporting the investments needed to decarbonise the economy. Thirdly, the Government proposes to create a stable tax framework that facilitates and supports business investment. during the Legislature, it will be possible to seek-CL there will be no worsening of taxation on companies. Investment incentives policy will be pursued, in particular by extending the deduction of retained and reinvested profits within IRC and improving SIFIDE(Incentives Tax System for Research and Entrepreneurial Development) to support the efforts of companies in innovation and the strengthening of productive capacity. Looking for-CL will also support the processes of scale gain and business succession on which our productivity depends. There will also be further opportunities to degrade corporate taxation. No less important: continue-CL will be working on reducing the costs of tax payments, seeking to reduce the associated cash effort and administrative simplification. We are going to work, at the centre of social dialogue, on reforming vocational training, to bring training offers closer to demand needs. We will continue to support Research and Enterprise Development and technology interface centres. By the beginning of next year, we will make EUR 200 million available for the training of technological infrastructures and support mobilising projects in co-promoting. We will also, in a very determined way, continue efforts to simplify administrative and improve the business environment, with a view to the consistent reduction of context costs. Today, the country has other ambitions and other resources to pursue them. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the most decisive commitment to the construction of a modern and innovative country involves, above all, thinking about people. If, four years ago, work seemed to some to be an abundant and cheap resource, today, on the contrary, people are considered a scarce and critical resource for our future competitiveness. Mass migration in the years of crisis has determined that Portugal today has less than 300 000 assets than it had a decade ago. And if we have managed to recover positive migration balances, it is no less certain that the numbers of emigration remain high. People should therefore be seen by companies and the country as the most valuable asset. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The example is clear and is given to us by the companies themselves that took us out of the crisis, which were the most productive and exposed companies to external competition. The lesson of these companies is that competing on the basis of low price and low cost is defeated proposal. Today, we can speak of a Portuguese economic model that is characterized by the flexibility of production processes, the focus on service, product development, rapid response and high quality at competitive price. This model rests on the quality of management and on the qualification and experience of workers. The State will seek to support the growth of the available income of the middle classes through the reduction of IRS or the continued strengthening of public services. The Government will also seek to promote the strengthening of measures to combat precariousness, to reduce levels of insecurity in the labour market and to relaunch collective bargaining. But the Government believes that it should go further and therefore seeks to invite the social partners to negotiate, in the context of social dialogue, a comprehensive agreement on economic growth and incomes for the horizon of the legislature, which serves as a reference for collective bargaining and which provides for a clear recovery of labour income. The value of labour income is fair, possible and necessary. It is fair because during the adjustment period the labour incomes were most affected. And if in recent years wages have risen at all levels of remuneration, the weight of labour income in GDP is still below what was recorded in 2010. The value of labour income is also possible. If, four years ago, the financial situation of companies was conditional and very precarious, today the profitability of its assets and its own capital is stronger, offering them greater capacity to invest in the most critical resources for their future. The improvement of labour income is finally necessary. The availability of workers with appropriate qualifications is today the biggest concern of our companies. Valuation of work and competitiveness are not in conflict, on the contrary, the attraction of workers with the necessary skills and experience is a condition of present and future competitiveness. The Government intends to support the growth of productivity and competitiveness of companies to meet the many challenges that are facing us in the coming years. It is, ultimately, that is what depends on the ability to build a country that offers to all those who live here and work the possibility of building their life projects in a manner corresponding to their aspirations and qualifications. It is for this purpose that the Programme which today is submitted to Parliament has been built and is with its implementation that the Government undertakes to work for the next four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u359	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered 11 entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u360	Madam President, I will respond first to five requests for clarification and then to the remaining six.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u361	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, one of the priorities proclaimed by the Government in this Programme has exactly to do with the digital economy, with innovation. From a few years to this part, it is obvious that new technologies, digitisation and innovation will be important for the future, but also, and above all, for the present, because it is in the present that the Portuguese economy is already preparing itself for the impacts it will have. This is not a new debate, it has failed in an essential part, which is the protection of labour rights. And that is exactly what we would like to ask the Minister. In his speech, he often mentioned the need to support investment in research and incentives for businesses and SMEs to make the transition to digitisation, but from a labour point of view, the proposals in the Government Programme leave us too many concerns and criticisms, because, moreover, they have a lot of proclamation and little practice. For example, they talk about stimulating work at a distance, but this issue needs to be deepened, because we do not think that we can move forward to something of this kind of light mind, as if it did not have any negative implications on the subject for which we have fought so much, which are the rights of work. You cannot, in a light mood, want to alter working relationships so deeply without considering the dangers and discussing them openly. The alerts are many and range from the deregulation of working hours to the even greater difficulty of monitoring working conditions and fulfilling work contracts. Therefore, the tow of innovation and digitization cannot come to work deregulation or even to deepen territorial and social inequalities. That is why, Minister, the question is simple: considering the lack of implementation of the Government's programme, the much proclamation of the fight against precariousness and lack of practice, how does it intend to articulate digitalization and innovation with the guarantee of labour rights and an effective fight against inequalities? Mr Minister, it cannot be worth everything in the name of competitiveness and it is not enough to use often the expression 'value work', it is necessary to carry out what you mean by that. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u363	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u364	Mr President, Minister, we already realize that the Government intends to continue to increase the number of tourists entering Portugal. The advanced numbers for the Lisbon airport expansion project are quite elucidative: 50 million tourists entering the Lisbon Metropolitan Area per year only. We wonder whether any economic profit will justify everything, including environmental degradation, loss of quality of life, city gentrification, contribution to climate change, among other things. More specifically, therefore, we ask the Minister whether he will be able to accept the NAP proposal and carry out studies of tourism load capacity for the country and, in particular, for the regions most pressured by tourism, in order to ensure the real impact on the quality of life of the population. As regards the other subject, the Government's programme envisages the need to revise the residence permit scheme for investment, seeking to direct it to investment in job creation and urban requalification and cultural heritage. Data from the Foreign and Border Service show that between 2012 and 2019 the value of the total accumulated investment amounts to almost EUR 5000 million, of which about 90 % were channelled for the acquisition of buildings. According to these SEF data, only 17 visasgold were assigned in seven years due to the criteria for the creation of at least 10 jobs, which in Portugal created just over 200 new jobs in total. In seven years, a golden visa was never awarded through the categories related to investment in scientific research or cultural or artistic heritage. Several international bodies, such as the OECD, the International Financial Action Group, the European Parliament and the European Commission, and non-governmental organisations such as the International Transparency, have made strong criticism of the visasgold and appealed to its repeal, stressing that the potential economic benefits of these instruments do not compensate for the risks of corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and security. They also alert for the lack of transparency and supervision, for example, as to the origin of the candidate's income for a golden visa. In view of this, does it not seem to you that the government should limit the allocation of such visas? On the other hand, the Government's programme has proposed the creation of a forest visa without, however, any consideration regarding the need for sustainability of projects associated with this type of visa, I ask you: how do you intend to safeguard environmental issues? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u365	Mr Pedro Rodrigues of the PSD has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u366	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the Government has decided to emphasise as a strategic challenge for the next four years the digital transition of the Portuguese economy. As a fundamental objective of the country and the national economy, the PSD cannot of course fail to welcome it. Mr Minister, we would, however, expect the Government's programme to produce a clear strategy and give concrete answers to put the country on a given path to how the Portuguese economy can face the challenges facing us with the digital economy. On the contrary, Mr Minister, reading the Government Programme, we have a number of perplexities, with some doubts and a number of uncertainties. The first perplexity, Mr Minister, comes from the government's organization. If the transition to the digital economy was indeed a major objective of this Government, it would certainly not be divided by so many government members. Therefore, Mr Minister, of two, one : or Mr Minister of Economy, as Minister of State, will accumulate the functions of his colleagues in the Government on this matter or then the digital transition will be more or less a film that has been seen, unfortunately, and will certainly end up with you distributing tablets and computers in schools near the next electoral period. Mr President, Minister, the second perplexity comes from schizophrenia which means the announcement with pump and circumstance in this House that digital transition is a major challenge for the national economy, while thousands and thousands of Portuguese wait in the ranks of public departments to renew the citizenship card and driving licence. Mr Minister, how can a Government call for an effort to modernise the thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are the lung of our economy, despite a fiscal asphyxiation that there is no memory in Portugal, when the dictatorship of stamp, demand and 25-line paper still works in our government? How can this government, Mr Minister, consider that the Portuguese still believe that you will be able to lead the digital transition when the previous government, which is also led by this Prime Minister, is the most impoverished public services, which has led to a degradation of health, education and transport services as there is no memory in Portugal? Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, the third perplexity is determined by the fact that a public consultation process has recently been announced for the allocation of spectrum ranges to 5G and that we do not yet know in Portugal the results of the report which the European Union has ordered our country to make for the purpose of determining the consequences of the implementation of that 5G network. That is why my question is clear, Minister : will the Government disclose these conclusions? Or will the government prepare to implement the 5G networks, without telling the country, i.e. by doing behind Portuguese, operators and entrepreneurs the implementation of such important infrastructure? Mr President, to conclude, it seems that a government also led by this Prime Minister, who was the champion of the announcements, the impoverishment of public services, the release of the first stones, is followed by a government of continuity, according to Mr. Prime Minister, and we already realize that he is preparing to be the champion of the digital promises. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u367	You have the floor to request clarification from Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u368	Mr President, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira, the question we put to the Government at this stage of the debate has to do with the productive sectors, the central issue of our economy and our development. The PCP reaffirms that it is not only necessary but possible to defend and promote our productive apparatus, naturally also analyzing the impacts of the digital economy sector to the sector, enhancing the resources of the country, qualifying and integrating the productive forces. What is required is the substantial increase in public and private investment of quality, a profound change in the management of Community funds and in training, research and technological development policies, credit, energy and external trade. The reversal of privatizations and the recovery to the public sector of the basic and strategic sectors and the definition of a strategy for the digital economy in respect of the constitutional framework, in all its aspects and dimensions, are required. The value of work and workers must, in fact, be a mandatory matrix in the application of new technologies, not with these flexibilitys which ultimately result in precariousness and unemployment, but by respecting the rights of workers and their participation and with the objective of leading the reduction of working hours to 35 hours. Or does the Government believe that this digital transition is ultimately the fastest way to a concentration of wealth and unprecedented exploitation? In addition to what Mr Minister has now said, he tells what is written in the Government Programme. We ask you about the essential dynamization and support of the activity of micro, small and medium-sized companies that were so mistreated were in PSD / CDS governments. There is a need to ensure effective regulation of competition by combating abuses of a dominant position and of economic dependence, placing a lot of SMEs on the internal market. Mr Minister, the Government programme being discussed should not go beyond the central objective of Portugal being a country with more production and more employment, with more exports, with a State policy to replace imports by national production, a country with better conditions to face and overcome external dependence, a sovereign and developed country. The question that arises is that of the concrete options that advance in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u369	Mr José Manuel Cardoso of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u370	Mr. President, just a little rectification, my name is José Maria and not José Manuel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u371	Pleased to meet you, Member of the Commission. Please. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u372	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Members, in the fourth strategic challenge of the Programme under discussion, digital society, among other things, it is said that the development model that we aim for the country is a knowledge-based economy in which the growth of productivity is based on innovation and the qualification of people. It is also said that building a modern, innovative Portugal in front of the information society means, above all, thinking about citizens and enabling them. We are perfectly in agreement on this formulation and on this. But it must also be said that this investment must be applied in an inclusive way so that no one will be left behind. It has to be designed to protect those who are less able to meet the challenges of digital transition. No one can be on the way when proper training has not been given. Mr Minister, I came from a district marked by the stigma of the three Bs: low wages, low qualifications, low productivity. That's what's always happened in the Bird Valley and in the Horse Valley. There is a permanent crisis that systematically serves as an excuse for precariousness and conditioned employment, especially in the textile sector. My question is: how is this technological challenge, this announced digitisation of the economy compatible with the low educational rates? According to 2016 data, in relation to the level of education of workers on behalf of others in this region, in particular in the Ave Valley, 66% of this population has as its maximum qualification the third year of basic education. For these workers not to be informed or, on the limit, rejected and, once again, victims of modernization processes which in no way meet their conditions, I ask you what measures, what means, which training programmes are designed and prepared to respond to this reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u373	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, here we are back to our discussions made more divergences than convergences. The reason that makes me intervene today, on behalf of the PSD, is to try to restore one truth and affirm another way. The truth has to do with growth. We all know that small countries and dependents like Portugal grow when they grow big countries and retreat when they also retreat. Portugal must take advantage of the growth cycles because our retreat is ever deeper than that of countries with greater resilience. The truth is, Mr Minister, that this government, on the ride of a small truth, is inducing a big lie which I would like to put back today and, to that end, to count on your help. When the government says, proud, that Portugal grows more than the European average is inducing in Portuguese the conclusion that Portugal is the European champion of growth. And we know it's not true. Portugal grows more than the average, because it grows more than the big countries, but when we compare ourselves with the countries, let me say, of our championship, our growth is minimal, it is miserable. When they say that we are growing more than the European average, I hope they do not do so in the European Union, because here there are a lot of countries that grow much more than we do — those that compare with us — and some grow more than twice as much. I hope they don't say that with much pride, because we're going to get pregnant. Mr Minister, Portugal has to grow and grow more, but the truth is that this growth is not enough. We cannot continue to tell the Portuguese that Portugal grows more than the European average, inducing this lie mounted on truth. [[PSD applause.]] Even worse, by saying this in such a proud way, we lead to another conclusion: this result is sufficient, we must be proud and we do not want to be better. This is even more dangerous, because it's not true either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u376	The PSD has another way we want to affirm. We believe that the country must grow based on two principles: the tax and investment and exports. With regard to tax cuts, the government is careful, I repeat, to say in the Government's programme that it is about direct tax reductions. Why? Because telling this truth is hiding another. This means the increase in indirect taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u377	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u378	We can't deny both. We know that the government has increased the tax burden, particularly indirect taxes. So the Portuguese, sooner than later, will realize that what they're giving them in one pocket is taking another. The PSD defends an effective tax drop, but also defends an effective investment bet. And in order to have an investment bet, the State must be an inducer and an example of investment, particularly public investment. Mr Minister, we know that public investment over the past four years has been, without qualification, below the previous government, so from that point of view, your past does not recommend you. But more than that, when the State wants to be an example and inducer of investment, it must start by paying the economic agents with whom it relates and not accumulates debts with them, since that is not a fair way of being on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u379	Even for the economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u380	The government can and should not crucify, not suffocating regulatory entities, especially with more than doubtful legal captives, because they can, indeed, induce healthy competition. Mr Minister, we are afraid that this generic Government programme will make it difficult to monitor government action until it is too late. But there's a certainty that we're starting to have: is that the second wine will be worse than the first wine. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u381	To reply, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u382	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, spoke of an issue that is at the heart of our concerns and of what I could say in my speech: to know how the digital transition, which is happening right now, will accelerate, which is a great opportunity for humanity and our country, can at the same time live with very serious risks of degradation of the situation of workers, of precarious working relationships, of deregulation of the labour market. This situation is a reality. We have all heard about the 'growth' of working relations, we have all seen what the political and judicial reactions are in various countries of the world on this issue. Work relations, that is, the way we work will change. We're going to work far away, we're going to work much more flexibly, we're going to do very different things. But that can't mean, and I have this very clear, that the situation of those who live in their work is disillusioned with what it is necessary to have a decent life that is to take up a decent wage that allows everyone to carry out their life plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u384	This is one of the essential tasks of digital transition. Mr José Maria Cardoso put the question of there being statements, which are clear, regarding what should be in the Government's programme the digital transition and the aspiration we have for the country: a highly developed society based on knowledge, innovation, qualifications, which leaves no one behind and offers all the skills needed to continue in this new digital world. Mr President, these statements are clear, because if we have clear intentions, if we can share them widely, we can make the right decisions whenever we have to decide on these matters. It is important, in this area, to work very hard on what was also the reason for my intervention and previous interventions, i.e. in the need to strengthen the mechanisms of supervision of work, to be attentive to new realities that occur, such as outsourcings, such as temporary working companies that, in fact, are just ways to make work available to businesses, to meet permanent needs. These forms of work that will occur and will probably continue to grow cannot mean, for those who live from their work, a disprotection from the law of the country. We must therefore be more demanding and better monitor this. Mrs Isabel Pires, right now, the government wants, and she is more interested than anyone else, that this process is going well. We truly have the concern that those who live from their work can carry out their life projects in Portugal. Too many people, with skills in which the country has invested, travel outside, will enrich other communities, other regions, other countries, because they do not find a job here to meet their aspirations and qualifications. The biggest challenge we have is to create the conditions, all working in the Assembly of the Republic, the Government, companies and trade unions, so that people do not have to choose to leave. We are in the European Union, we are in an area that allows the free movement of people is good! People should have the opportunity to choose to leave, but this should be an option, they cannot leave due to lack of appropriate alternatives. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, with regard to the tourist flows, particularly in the destinations of Lisbon and Porto, it is indeed appropriate to assess how they can be compatible with the circuits that travel in the city. It is important that the experience of tourists and residents continues to be pleasant, that over time it may continue to be interesting and that the reasons for attraction are not damaged. Therefore, of course, we have to evaluate how the circuits of tourists occur and make other reasons for tourist attraction occur at other points of the city and country. That was precisely the strategy we have carried out in recent years. That is why, moreover, the greatest growth of tourist flows is not in the traditional destinations of Lisbon, Algarve or Madeira, but precisely in other regions of the country, in other cities. That's where we've been trying to capture new tourist search. The visasgold regime was reviewed during the previous legislation in order to seek other types of reasons that lead to investment and allow for residence authorisation for investment. It is true that most of the decisions have to do with real estate and that, eventually, will lead us to equalize a review of the regime to see how we can better use this. I would like to assure you this: the residence permit scheme for investment does not call into question the control of the requirements for the suitability of visa applicants by the national authorities. The specificity of the residence permit for investment is this: the one who benefits from this authorisation does not have to be working here or staying here. It benefits from this authorisation because of the investment it makes, but it is subject to exactly the same control as we do for all those who are looking for us here to live and work. Mr. Pedro Rodrigues spoke of the digital transition and of course the question of the government's organics and how the subjects of the digital transition will be managed within the Public Administration and the Government. This is precisely the problem that has brought more demands on government organics. There are challenges, there are questions, there are treatments that are not resolved within the classical sphere of Public Administration. The idea that a given area of governance has certain technical and financial resources to solve a single problem about the dependence of a single political official is an increasingly appropriate formula to the needs of modern societies. To solve problems such as digital transition, we must, at the same time, deal with infrastructure, education, vocational training, higher education, science, industry and services, and it is not possible to have a minister covering all of this. What is really necessary is to break the silos within the Public Administration around a single program, a single strategy, and to require not only all those responsible within the government to deal with these problems but their own dependent services working around programs and projects. Mr President, I have had the benefit of following several projects in the last two years of governance, where I could testify that, with the will and commitment of a team, it is possible to break the barriers and silos existing in the Public Administration around transformers programs. I hope that we can also succeed here, because here the issue is very high. Indeed, Mr President, one of the areas of greater transformation is precisely that of public services. I truly believe that the digital transition in public administration will allow us to be more efficient, more effective, better serve citizens and be more transparent to those who need to control us, from the very start of the citizens and businesses themselves. The Citizen's Card is a good example. When we had a very high flow of search for the Citizen's Card in recent times, we found that the classic services were, in fact, very clumsy, unable to respond in good time. That is why we immediately had the ability to use the new technologies so that the renewal of the Citizen's Card could be done for those over 25 years online. With this we have already provided the renewal of 60 000 Citizens' Cards, releasing the classic services to those new citizens' issues, new requests for nationality, which would have to continue to be made there. This is an example of how digital transformation is possible to bring better service to citizens. In fact, Mr President, Portugal has a lot to do in this area of pride and externally speaking. Even last week, they were here the digital ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany and some in charge of the German ministry for the digital transition. They will come to see precisely our digitization in public administration, digital public services and our electronic public purchasing system, which is the most advanced in Europe. They would come to learn from us, they came to learn from our leaders of the Public Administration, because there are things of interest to be done there, but obviously we should do more. With regard to 5G, we are within the time limits set by the European Union and of course we will not take any decision which is not subject to the scrutiny of the citizens and the Assembly. Mr Bruno Dias, of course, defending the national productive sector is the essential task, I would say, for a public policy. In fact, I do not believe anyone in this government believes that simply cutting taxes and allowing the market to function solves any problem of affirmation and development of the national economy. What we have seen over the last few years is that in the periods when industrial policy, support for companies, support for technological infrastructures, work in education and the qualification of Portuguese, we have grown in productivity, we have grown in exports. When we simply wanted to break the idea of an industrial policy, an economic policy, things didn't go so well. That is why we are working with companies, through the Supplier Clubs initiative, so that the exporting sectors, large exporting companies work more and more with Portuguese suppliers, to increase national added value. These are good practices that we want to keep going. It is true, Mr. José Maria Cardoso, that inclusion in the digital transition is fundamental and possible. I also lived in the Ave Valley. I know the textile industry well. Yesterday, I was in a mesh company in Barcelos, where I met a modelist, a « girl of my age », as it is usually said. She is a woman who began working as a child, who did hand-made molds and who, at the age of 40, asked her at the company to start molding through a AutoCAD system (Computer Aided Design). She thought it was the end of her career. Today, he's a modelist in a top-notch company. This shows that it is possible to give everyone the skills, I repeat, everyone, to be able to work in this new sector. Mr. Paulo Rios, Portuguese growth is not the greatest in Europe, but if we compare ourselves to those countries that are pre-accession, we are the fourth country that has grown most in recent years. We are the fourth largest country and, if we discount Ireland, which, as you know, has an inflationed GDP by almost 35 % because of the location of the large technological multinationals that do not effectively correspond to the wealth created there, we are probably ahead. The public investment will go into cruise speed and pull the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u385	Mr Minister, you have five further requests for clarification. Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u386	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, in fact, is a socialist government. We see this when it was necessary to wait until dinner time for someone to talk about creating wealth. We had indeed hoped to hear from the Minister for Economic Affairs. We began, of course, from the agenda that the Prime Minister brought us from various public transports, which we hope will one day be seen by the users and that it will not happen what happened to the hospitals that you announced today, because they are the same ones that you announced four years ago. Therefore, we hope not to have the same compositions, the same boats and the same buses announced from here to four years, like what happened now! But as the people used to say, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs spoke, but he didn't say. He made a speech in which he characterized the national economy, the challenges, the digital transition, but the question is that, in order to maintain the model that the Socialist Government wants to maintain and in order to achieve the commitments it has made here today, Portugal has to grow more than it has so far. Nothing that the Minister for Economic Affairs here has told us ensures that, structurally, the Portuguese economy is now in a position to grow more than it has grown over the past four years. For one simple reason: we were not expecting the Minister here to present the five-year plan for the expansion of the Portuguese economy — on the part of the CDS, to calculate that this was not what we were expecting — but we were expecting a minister who is aware of the Portuguese business reality, to bring us a clear strategy to remove obstacles to Portuguese companies and, above all, to remove obstacles to the social mobility of workers in Portugal. About that, very little or nothing was said. If we still have low wages—and this has been said by several colleagues and several members of the government during this debate—it is because companies do not have an investment capacity. It is impossible to increase wages if companies do not have investment capacity. It is impossible to have social mobility if, when an employer decides to increase the wage of a worker, the biggest beneficiary is not the worker, it is the State. It is the State that will seek a significant part of the company's effort that should go to the worker but that the State absorbs with its tax and tax policy. It is also important to know what is missing from the Portuguese economy — and the Minister has not told us what is missing from the Portuguese economy — which is capital. The Portuguese economy lacks capital. And if it lacks capital, it's not by chance, it's because the Portuguese tax system is not competitive. A few years ago, there was a government that signed with the largest opposition party, which was the Socialist Party, an agreement for the gradual reduction of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) that put us in line with the countries with which we compete at European level, in order to attract investment. The previous government—not the previous one, I'm talking about the previous government— ended this process of reduction and the consequence is obvious. at this time, the countries we want to compete with grow much more than we and we lose the train of investment attraction. On the other hand, we could have national capital for investment, but this is the government which, like the previous one — which, by the way, was very similar, although a little bit smaller! — has no strategy for saving in Portugal. Zero! Savings is something that this government olympically ignores and then complains that there is no capital, probably finding that the capital falls from heaven. With regard to the digital transition and the qualification of workers, in all changes, in all previous revolutions, it was always said that they would end their jobs and eventually increase their jobs. That's not the point. The question is to know what is done so that people can effectively accept this challenge and to do as that worker whom Mr. Minister spoke about. For this, vocational training is needed and the experience we have over the past four years is that the government has been a blocking force of vocational training in Portugal. In many areas where there were companies that had orders, where there were workers to be able to produce these orders and which could increase the export capacity of the Portuguese economy, there was no vocational training, there was no capacity to employ people and there was no capacity to have more Product. Minister, what I say is not an opinion. The indicators are very clear. The World Bank published last week the competitiveness ranking of the countries and Portugal was in 2015 in the 23. position. In 2016, it went to 25. the, in 2017, for 29. the, in 2018, for 34. and is at this moment in 39. the position. That is, four years of socialist government, sixteen positions lost by the country in terms of competitiveness. This has a great deal to do with the stagnation of our growth and our inability to accompany European partners who grow more than we do. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] But the trade balance is another one of the indicators that we are not on the right track. We have had a period of balance of trade and we have again begun to disequilibrate it completely, which proves that structurally there is no change in the Portuguese economy. When there are times of economic expansion, imports increase substantially and we do not achieve that balance. On the other hand, external debt is far from being controlled or balanced, which also brings enormous vulnerability to our economy. Finally, GDP per capita has fallen, which means that for each Portuguese we produce less and less, compared with our partners. So, Minister, what we are asking is very simple: when does the socialist government realize that the money of others, one day, will end and that our economy is not in a position to resist a beating, like others that it has had in the past? When will you realize that the tax system actually has to be an investment attraction instrument?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u387	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u388	I will finish, Mr. President. When will you realize that the speed of justice is necessary? Mr Minister, if not even the Ministry of Economics realizes this, then what is the Ministry of Economics for? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u389	I give the floor to Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u390	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, the previous cost-free ways for the user, which, a few years ago, were introduced, and well in the country, based on the principles of solidarity, territorial cohesion, the promotion of accessibility and the fight against the country's asymmetries and inequalities. It is also known that the PSD/CDS government has introduced tolls into the ex-SCUT, bringing about a fatal slaughter in these principles. There are very difficult routes in regions of the interior, and also in the Algarve, without alternatives, for which there is a promise from Mr. Prime Minister. In 2015, because of the heights of the legislative elections, Mr. Prime Minister promised or admitted, as a form of combat against the interiority, to finish the tolls inside the country, as well as with the tolls of the Algarve, a region of particular tourist flow, recognizing, and well, that the national road No. 125 was a cemetery. He asked the Minister whether this government would, after all, end the tolls inside the country and also in the Algarve because of the reasons I mentioned. On the other hand, national road No 125, as you know, has been waiting for its total requalification since 2009. It is a shame, Mr Minister, that part of this route, between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António, has not yet been re-qualified. It seems we have first-class citizens and second-class citizens in the Algarve. The specific questions I would like to leave to Mr Minister are the following: will this government finally raise the tolls inside and in the Algarve? For when is the requalification of the national road No 125? And now, why should the Minister have an honest word, if he forgets to finally fulfill the word given in 2015? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u391	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr Minister, the Government recognises at the beginning of its Programme that the Portuguese economy is subject to an international situation marked by uncertainty, the likelihood of slowing down growth and commercial tensions. In view of this, the question arises: what are the options that the country must make in order to prepare for this uncertain context? Preparing the country for the future goes through more national production, which requires a strengthening of public investment that enhances private investment and economic development, more investment to give more muscle to the economy, produce more to import less, ensure a fairer distribution of wealth created in the country, bet on qualification and technological incorporation. This requires more public investment, but when we look at the Government Programme we see that it continues to insist on levels of public investment far beyond what is necessary. Mr Minister, EUR 10 billion in 4 years for areas as important as transport, SNS, public school, agriculture? Oh, my God! It's clearly not enough! Mr Minister, the Government's option is wrong because of the obsession with the zero deficit, the primary balance of 3 % or the submission to Brussels taxes. what the country needs is to prepare for the future, to guarantee better public services, taking advantage of this period to strengthen public investment. Mr Minister, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are the basis for the Portuguese economic fabric — the CFP has already raised a question on this subject, to which Mr Minister has not yet answered — even having adopted measures in the State budget for 2019 which are still to be complied with, in particular on simplified IRC. When is this measure implemented, Minister? It is also necessary to move forward with measures such as improving the VAT system, allowing it to be charged not at the time of invoicing, but only after good collection, relieving the treasury of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. from the PCP, we will continue to intervene against the promotion of large economic groups, in defense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and those who live in their work! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u393	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, as we all know, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have an absolutely decisive role in our economy: they represent about 98 % of the total number of businesses in our country, they are responsible for 80 % of total employment and represent 60 % of the total turnover of non-financial companies. Despite their importance in our economy, the truth is that, in general, these companies continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness. This scenario is even more worrying if we take into account that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term. In other words, the situation these companies are experiencing is a strong obstacle to the resumption of business investment and, as a matter of fact, does not help to say that it compromises the relaunch of the Portuguese economy. I would therefore like to know what the Government's strategy is and what measures it is considering to develop as a way not only to speed up and facilitate the access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to finance, but also to promote their capitalisation. The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister, also face other problems. For example, when they want to apply for Community funds, they are often forced to use companies to apply for them, so that these companies can apply, and the result is that, in some situations, those who have the biggest share of the cake are not the company that is running, but the company who prepares the application. It was therefore important for the Minister to tell us what he wants to do to facilitate the process of applying for these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly as regards their enormous bureaucratic weight. Finally, Mr Minister, with regard to energy efficiency, which is of great importance, not only at the economic level, was interested to know what the Government is planning with regard to measures aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of companies. It is a matter which the Greens would like to stress, not only because of the importance it takes from the economic point of view, but above all because of the importance it assumes from the environmental point of view and its potential contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change which are undoubtedly associated with it. Therefore, Mr Minister, because of the relevance that this matter represents, the Greens believe it would be important for the Government to tell us something, because we know very little about the measures that the Government intends to implement in relation to increasing energy efficiency in companies and which has a great deal to do with the environmental impacts resulting from energy consumption. This is a front which cannot, of course, be devalued when we talk about reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which cannot be devalued when we talk, above all, about combating climate change, because this front represents, or may represent, an excellent contribution when we talk about these matters. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u395	For a final request for clarification to the Minister, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u396	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Economic Affairs, allow me to make a few comments before asking you a few questions. The PSD has come to this relatively obsessed debate with the government's folders and organics. We saw that in the morning, and we saw that now with Mr. Pedro Rodrigues. In practice, in doing so, in some cases it was even at the door of the debate. In the case of Mr Rodrigues, I do not cease to be amused, because the honourable Member, on the question of digital society and also on innovation, made some comments on the folders and I confess, in favour of the truth, that I do not remember at least—I do not know whether the Minister remembers—what was the organization of the folders in the PSD/CDS government on this subject of innovation. But there is one thing that I remember and which is even demonstrated in several books and statistical publications, which are the results that the PSD and CDS had with regard to innovation, at the time when they were government. I don't remember the folders, but I remember the results well: it was the biggest tom in innovation that you did, during your governance in Portugal, comparing with the rest of Europe. It took the PS to reach the government so that innovation can be pulled up as an essential aspect for a knowledge-based economy, as we are working on — this is the first remark. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The second point — and we return to the PSD — has to do with Mr Paulo Rios. The honourable Member has a characteristic, which is to like creating parallel realities. But, worse than creating parallel realities, it is the fact that Mr Paulo Rios is convinced that, by saying one, two, three lies often turn into truth. Well, sir, that's not the case. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] We all know — Mr Paulo Rios also knows — that the economy grew above the average in 2017 and 2018, that the economy grew 9, 3 % during the past legislature and that is, in fact, a lot! We have already said that we have more ambition, that we want more, but, Mr, it cannot create a lie with what is reality. That is contrary to reality and does not suit you, Mr Paulo Rios. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us return again to the PSD, Minister. The PSD, in Mr Cristóvão Norte's voice, has a slightly different strategy here: when you don't like an indicator, you remember another indicator that might be better. Today, he remembered GDP per capita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u397	That's the most important thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u398	We also know that GDP per capita is not at the levels at which we would like it to be, but, Mr Cristóvão Norte — I believe that at present it is not present — GDP per capita in the past Parliament has increased by 4 %. [[PSD and CH protests.]] Your legislation has dropped 3%! Sir, where was your ambition in your legislation? I don't remember, I didn't see her! That is the big question! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, I have great respect for you - it is true - and it is because you have in fact very much respect for yourself that you would be asked to do a simple exercise, which is to look around you, behind you, next to you, and seek out your Members of the previous Parliament. Where is he? They're not! You know why they're not? Because the CDS is systematically making a speech that contradicts reality! However, this speech, in addition to contradicting reality, contradicted the feelings of Portuguese people who voted massively in the PS and did not vote in the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u399	Massively? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u400	That is the point, and that is why you continue to lose your votes. This speech does not actually form part of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to ask two questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u401	Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u402	After four years of legislation and with the results achieved — which have already been widely explained in this House throughout this day — the question I would like to ask is whether it is acceptable and even possible to demonstrate the thesis that the PSD and the CDS try to get past what is the widespread reduction in IRC that causes a significant increase in the country's gross domestic product. As we have seen, this has not happened in the last four years: there has not been a widespread reduction in IRC and GDP has grown as it has never grown in the country in recent years. Finally, I raise a question which has to do with a question which I think is essential and which is indeed a challenge, but which can also be an obstacle to the economic growth of the country, and which has to do with the question of qualified labour. Perhaps one of the biggest challenges in the country is to ensure that it attracts skilled labour to prevent restrictions on its economic growth. The question is: What public policies can be expected for the next four years to ensure that economic growth is not hampered by lack of labour? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u403	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u404	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, a very important issue he referred to was that of vocational training. In fact, vocational training needs another type of boost. It is probably a reversal of the times of the troika that still has to be done. In fact, the current multiannual financial framework, PT2020, had a very inadequate treatment of vocational training. We have had the opportunity to make a great effort at the level of reprogramming to direct money for vocational training, and we obviously need to adapt the offer to it. It is a work that would be easier, and our vocational training system could be better trained if their funds flowed from the PT2020 as it was not possible, depending on the options taken by the previous government. [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] The honourable Member also spoke about the question of unbalanced trade balance. Mr. Deputies, perhaps you are out of date. During this year, we talked about the imbalance in our commercial balance. The balance was reached in September this year. Therefore, we are for the sixth consecutive year with positive external balances. I would like to say the following: contrary to what you are suggesting, the growth of imports during the year 2019 has to do with the import of reproductive equipment — machines, equipment, transport equipment. The negative balance of the property balance corresponds virtually to the value of the acquisitions of aircraft by TAP, which alone explain the negative commercial balance, 77 % of the value of the commercial balance of the property balance. Mr João Piinho de Almeida — and I am now also responding to Mr Carlos Pereira — it is to be demonstrated that there is a correlation between lower income taxes for companies and investment growth. The lower taxes, the lower rate of IRC likely improves the situation of shareholders, but it is not shown that they alone reinvested these dividends in their own companies. That is why the choice of the former Government and the former Government is not to reduce the IRC rate, but rather to create benefits and incentives for those who reinvest their profits in improving innovation and in modernising their businesses or in capitalising them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is also why, during these four years, foreign direct investment in Portugal has reached very high levels. We are with the highest foreign direct investment stock ever, we continue to have investment intentions that come about almost every week and the truth, Mr. Member, is that I can tell you that all foreign investors with whom I speak the last thing they are talking about is the tax issue. So if it were true what Mr suggested, we would not have had the levels of national and foreign investment that we have had in recent years. Mr. João Vasconcelos, the process of reducing tolls in the SCUT was a commitment made by the previous government in its Programme, which was realized over time: there was a first reduction of 15 % in 2016, generally with additional reductions to classes 2, 3 and 4, and it was now resumed, especially for commercial vehicles during the year 2019, in order to reduce the context costs for companies served by these motorways. The Government programme foresees that the process of reducing tolls in the former SCUTs will continue to be carried out, probably now with greater attention to those who are residents served by these infrastructures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, the external context of the Portuguese economy is uncertain, it is true. External demand to the Portuguese economy is not growing as it has grown at other times. But there are two things I wanted to mention. The first is the following: in the last three years, for the first time Portuguese exports are growing systematically above what is the growth of trade in the European Union. That is, if it is true that in the past when Europe grew, our exports have grown, the reality is that in the last three years our exports have systematically gained market share. We are selling more to European countries and countries outside Europe than their own economy, their own purchases abroad are growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u405	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u406	This means that our companies are more competitive, they are selling products, goods and services with more quality at the competitive price, which justifies the preference of foreign customers. But I meant more. I would like to say that the external context, uncertain, should not divert our attention from the structural changes that we need to continue to make. We cannot stop investing, we cannot stop modernizing the Portuguese economy and Portuguese companies, we cannot stop investing in qualifications and our infrastructures because the external context is uncertain. This is the truth. I am going back to another point which you referred to. In fact, we are able to invest in modernising our companies. We are able to invest in our infrastructures and public services precisely because we do so responsibly. As I said recently, we are now collecting the dividend of stability. It is the fact that we have balanced public finances, that we are reducing the public debt that gives us financial leave to invest sustainably in our future, and that is essential. Mr José Luís Ferreira — and I am also responding to another question put by Mr Duarte Alves, who has to do with the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises — the concern about the level of indebtedness of small and medium-sized enterprises was precisely what led me to integrate the mission structure for the capitalisation of enterprises, as a result of several political measures which are not now worth recalling. But the truth is that the financial autonomy of small and medium-sized enterprises has increased over the past four years and is now 39 %. It was below 30 % four years ago, it was 39, 5 % in 2018 and this movement continues to increase. The indebtedness of small and medium-sized enterprises continues to decline. It is a process that we must continue, and we must find alternative sources. The best example I can give you is the mutual guarantee system, which in this last Parliament has channelled to small and medium-sized enterprises, to Portuguese micro-enterprises, almost EUR 6 billion of credit which would otherwise not be accessible to these companies. We also obviously have a great deal of concern about energy efficiency. That is why there is public funding for the investments necessary for energy efficiency in industry and services, and surely the green bank we want to create must also move on there. We have a line for energy efficiency for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is open at EUR 100 million, and we will continue with this movement. Mr. Carlos Pereira, I have already spoken on the subject of reducing IRC and its relationship with growth, but I just wanted to take advantage of the time left to mention a topic that has formulated in its initial considerations. This is the theme of innovation, which is an essential theme for the future growth of our economy. We will not continue to grow only with more labour, we need labour with the right qualifications, yes, but growth will come from increased productivity. It is about producing more with the same resources, especially more in value. And this comes from investment in innovation, science and technology. The growth of national expenditure in research and development increased to 1,3 % of GDP, with 50% already being supported by the private sector. This is very important, because it is the way of the future. I would like to say more: that the recent innovation rate in Europe and regions has shown that Portugal was the largest country in the European Union Innovation Scoreboard and, above all, that three Portuguese regions are now considered highly innovative regions. In Spain there is not a single one and in Italy only Lombardy is considered a strong innovative region. In southern Europe, Portugal today has three regions — North, Central and Lisbon — which are highly innovative. These are the basis for our future, are the basis for the future growth of our productivity, which is why our companies are gaining so many market shares. That is why all public policy aimed at innovation and science and that the national entrepreneurship strategy is so important and is already giving these results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u407	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u408	I conclude now, Mr President. Indeed, the path is already being traced and is essential for our collective future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-30.u409	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's debate. The debate on the XXII Constitutional Government programme will be closed tomorrow at 10 a.m.. I say goodbye to everyone, wishing for a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 29 minutes.]]
