ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we will begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, please open the gallery doors to the public. Our agenda consists of the Government's Appeal No. 25 / XIII / 4. a, required by the CDS-PP, under Article 227. the Rules of Procedure, on the topic of health. Before that, Mr Duarte Pacheco will do his best to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 2066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government work for the rapid removal of all asbestos-containing materials in the Basic School of 1. o is 2. o Tondela Cycles, 2067 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the installation of new equipment at the Christian Airport Ronaldo to improve operational levels, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2068 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape integrated into the National Network of Protected Areas, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2069 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 1. the semester of 2019. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u3	Thank you, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Health and the honourable Members. State Secretaries present here. Let us then begin our work, with the Interpellation to Government No 25 / XIII / 4. the, required by the CDS-PP, on the theme of health. I have the floor for the opening of the debate, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u4	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the « united Left », the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, has failed the Portuguese. It imposes the financial burden on public services and has failed professionals, who are insufficient in number, are unhappy, exhausted, and do not trust a government that does not dialogue. It failed to invest and modernize health services, and failed patients, who see the National Health Service (NSS) deteriorating, less accessible, working much worse. The CDS today makes this appeal for the social relevance of the topic and for the many appeals of many and many disillusioned patients and professionals, which alone justifies returning to the subject once again. We do this, because we are at the end of the legislature and it is time for balance sheets and accountability, since the Minister has changed but has not changed the lack of policy. We do this interpellation, because we see a Prime Minister and a Minister of Finance, who is successful and self-sufficient, showing to the world their deficit, resulting from a maximum burden of taxes and minimum public services, but ignoring that it was at the expense of worse health services, among others, that they have achieved it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is regrettable, to say the least, to see a Prime Minister and a « Super Minister » of Finance, true holder of the health folder, again and again to paint reality, to devalue problems and not solve them. Is it even what they rule? Oh, my God! And they're going on propaganda shows across the country, cutting tapes, making ads and promises that they know they won't fulfill. They ignored the serious impact of their options, and they do not assume that they failed the Portuguese. This government began to fail in health when, in a hasty and unprepared manner, it made the application of 35 hours. The CDS alerted, in due course, to the impact that this would have on the organization of work and on the exhaustion of professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u5	It's exploring them to the fullest! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u6	He continued to fail when he was promising everything to everyone, when he was unable to effectively manage negotiation processes with various professional groups, processes that have been dragged for more than three years without happy endings to sight and with damage to all. Your government failed when it did not invest in hospitals, keeping them captive from the captivity of Centeno, still operating with program contracts for approval at the end of 1. the quarter of 2019. He failed by delaying the reform of primary health care, preventing the passage of USF (family health units) to model B, by not fulfilling the so propagandised promise of giving a family doctor to all Portuguese, as still yesterday the Minister admitted to the Health Commission. It failed to guard against quick and effective solutions to overcome the increase in lists and waiting times or to devalue discharges due to lack of clinical safety. He failed to grow the waiting lists in continuous care and to accumulate debts to be paid in the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The government fails, clears the problems and systematically devalues them. It is in a "he passes blame" for hospital managers, who are accused of incompetence, and goes from promise to final failure. This government promises but does not resolve. This government does not rule. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no pathological joy in pointing out this state of affairs and we do not want to deny the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u7	“ You deceive me with the truth! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u8	We do this precisely because we understand that we must strengthen the SNS and change this reality. We do so because they are far more than isolated cases that we have pointed out here, there are hundreds of serious problems that build up and that the government does not solve. What is well in view is no more than a standard: a government that is in a way of'eradicating fires', from crisis to crisis, which promises but does not comply; a government that is'strengthened with the belly', without a structured and effective policy for the sector; a government that wants to hide the seriousness of the facts and that reveals a painful social insensitivity. Demonstrative of this very thing that I just said are today's news about the pediatric urgency of Garcia de Orta Hospital, at risk of failure, after the government has ignored the warnings two months ago and has not taken steps to hire sufficient doctors. This is a government that is more a failure, a government of promises and « inaccuracies », as we said yesterday in the Commission. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the Government of the united Left fails and has begun to fail for more than three years. We are not at the beginning of the legislature, we have not arrived here now and we very strange the « now it is» systematic in the mouth of socialist rulers. Also, we do not deal with smoke curtains released on who is the real person responsible for this state of things, as we do not deal with the insistence to throw ideology over the problems, creating an artificial agenda and alternative to the painful reality, an agenda that aims to mislead us with the idea that it will be a new law of health bases, which is a fantastic magic wand, to solve the serious issues of the immediate. It is an agenda that excludes the social sector and the deprived of the national plan to improve the health of Portuguese, an agenda that can serve party customers but which does not serve the national interest at all. [[CDS-PP applause.]] No laws are made from bases by metro and in a hurry, ignoring other laws by bases. And surely they do not lie to the trash can reflected, consensual and consistent texts, to replace them with minimalist versions that accumulate gross errors, unconstitutionalities, misconstitutionalities and serious omissions. This is called waste, this is little thinking, it does not reveal vision or ability to govern, looking at the challenges of the future! That, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another failure of your governance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u10	Well the parties on the left can do more exercises of demagogy, well the Socialist Party can say everything and its opposite, promoting, on the back of the MEPs, zealous behind-the-shelf negotiations, on the law of bases, for supposed broad consensus, which cannot mislead reality nor continue to deceive the Portuguese. The SNS is very ill and needs urgent solutions, of adequate and sufficient means, of health professionals treated with effective consideration and respect, of responses that you have been promising and which continue to arrive. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the CDS, we have a vision for health in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u11	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u12	We often visit health institutions and listen to professionals. We do not fail to report the problems, because it is pressingly to find answers. We have made concrete proposals throughout the legislature and we will not stay here, because we have, and we are, a true alternative. Mrs. Minister of Health, Mr. President, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end by saying the unfortunate obvious: health was not even a priority for this government. This legislation was a missed opportunity for health in Portugal. This Government of Antonio Costa and Mário Centeno, supported by each Budget approved by the « united Left », has failed in health. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Promise but don't solve, announce but don't do it! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, enough announcements and promises to be fulfilled. You really need to change. The CDS will always be part of the solution and will surely build this change. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u13	You have the floor for the opening of the debate on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On April 7, World Health Day, dedicated, for the second consecutive year, to the theme of universal coverage, is signed. This is a well demonstrated fact of the concern that remains, in all health systems, to ensure that everyone has access to health care that responds to their needs, at the appropriate place, in the right time and with the appropriate quality, as well as to ensure that all people are protected from the financial risk of the disease. It is recognized that primary health care is the best way to universal health coverage. That's why we've been beating for your reinforcement. We created 83 new family health units by the end of 2018 and will have more than 100 family health units by the end of the legislature. We hired 1289 new specialists in general and family medicine, with a net balance of 585. We guarantee coverage by more Portuguese family doctor and we will have trained even more 400 new specialists in this area until the end of the Legislature. We expanded the response capacity of primary health care, with emphasis on oral health. We have already installed dental medicine offices in 37 of the 54 groups of health centers and in 24% of the municipalities and we will have guaranteed the same response in more groups of health centers and municipalities until the end of the legislature. But we are well aware that there is no universal coverage without good access to the hospital network and that the alteration of demographic and epidemiological profiles has brought great pressure in the search for differentiated care. Between 2015 and 2018, the number of requests for consultation referred to by the Time and Time Consultation system increased by about 6 % and the number of entries on the list of registries for surgery increased by about 7 %. How did the SNS respond? The number of hospital consultations was increased by 9% and the total number of patients operated by 6%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the answer was not enough to solve that which is a very common feature to other health systems with predominantly public performance: waiting lists. There is no magic solution to this problem and the evidence available on policies initiated by several countries shows that these are the combined strategies that show the greatest success. Therefore, we repeated the detailed analysis of cases of non-compliance with the maximum guaranteed response times. In the area of consultation, for example, we found that seven specialties concentrate the worst results; we worked with specialists, identified response strategies and prioritized a clinical approach to the problem. The institutional commitment we intend to achieve is the guarantee that all users with normal priority who have been waiting for more than 12 months will have their consultation or surgery by the end of the year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u15	Another fundamental dimension of access is that of the response given by the network of continuous care integrated to dependent people, with a view to their rehabilitation. Aware of the need for increased investment in this area, we have opened about 1000 new beds by the end of 2018 and, more recently, we have authorized the opening of 475 others, being the National Coordination to study the opening of more 429 still this year. On the other hand, together with the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, we have extended pilot experiences for 18 months concerning the contractualization of integrated mental health continuous care responses and we intend to extend them beyond the 305 new places created. Also in the area of the national palliative care network, we have improved responses to the level of Community support teams in palliative care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To ensure universal coverage poses great challenges, even to the health systems of high-income countries, in which the social expectations of the most informed and demanding citizens demand — and well! — new and better answers. In our case, they involve, for example, the extension of the use of telemedicine, digital health or home hospitalization. With regard to the latter, knowing that our public hospitals internalize some 800 000 patients per year, of which a significant number can benefit from home hospitalization, we have made the commitment of their availability in 25 hospitals, already operating in 8 of them. However, the new challenges to access cannot cause us to forget the preservation of its primary dimensions, as is the case with the necessary financial protection against the costs of the disease. It was on its behalf that we, at the beginning of the legislature, reduced by 25%, or even eliminated, the value of moderate rates, rejected the right to transport non-emergency patients and promoted the increase in the share of generic medicines, with reduced user costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The path to universal health coverage involves political priority and investment priority. It was on behalf of this priority that, since the beginning of the Legislature, the SNS budget has been strengthened by 1400 million euros and the labor force of the National Health Service increased by 9000 professionals. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] It was on behalf of this priority that today, in the Council of Ministers, a programme of investments in the field of health was approved, which is around EUR 90 million... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that will allow you to authorize aspirations such as the remodeling of the emergency service of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center or the acquisition of two new linear accelerators, one for the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and another for the Hospital Center of Barreiro-Montijo. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u16	This programme has been added to the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, which has allowed EUR 70 million to be allocated to health, and has also increased the remodelling of the 79 health units and the 22 emergency services already implemented or ongoing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Universal coverage in health is a achievement that we are proud of and that has in its center the National Health Service. There is much to do to improve it, and we do not doubt that. But the feeling of all those who daily use the National Health Service and of all who work in it and for it, I am sure, is of unbreakable confidence and recognition, the same confidence and the same recognition that make the National Health Service resist, even when attacked,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u18	...even when others try to make believe, deceptively, that their situation is weak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u20	The SNS is a civilizational conquest, which will always resist. It is the best way to meet this great goal of the World Health Organization, which challenges all countries not to leave any citizen behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u21	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate. The Bureau only records the registration of Ms Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, PS, to request clarification from Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u22	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, this government has not failed, this government does not hide the problems and now the 'inconsequentials' that Mrs Galriça Neto spoke of were left in the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, for the first time 9, 5 million Portuguese, i.e. 97% of Portuguese have a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u23	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u24	This, yes, is a victory that we must celebrate, by the Government's efforts, by the efforts of the professionals and also by the efforts of the users. The merits of this victory must be fairly shared. Still, the Minister, aware of the difficulties, warns that she must fail to assign a family doctor to all Portuguese. Mrs. Minister, you won't be long! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] In spite of the black picture that the honourable Member has drawn up, it is appropriate to highlight some criteria for access that have been achieved. Transport has been ensured to all non-emergency patients. Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It was the previous government that took him away! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u25	We have reduced the moderate rates by 24 %, increased the number of exemptions — more than 6 million Portuguese exempt from the payment of moderate rates — we have lowered the maximum guaranteed response times for highly priority patients, both in consultations and in surgeries, thus making the requirement much higher. And the gentlemen. Are CDS Members unable to present a vote for this? Oh, my God! The priorities of the CDS are no longer what they were now turned towards the futsal of the clergy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a right that assists you, but, Madam Member, since you have made a legislative agenda, if you can contribute with proposals to improve the National Health Service, we thank you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u26	To reply, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u27	Mr President, Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos, I would like to say that it is not worth comparing the unrivalled. In the right way of what I said in the gallery, the honourable Member used numbers and more numbers, but then there is reality, and the honourable Member uses half-truths.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u28	They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u29	I'm going to tell you how the honourable Member uses half-truths.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u30	The honourable Member has to answer my question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u31	What the former Government did, during a period of financial assistance, and never denying that we were under austerity, was, in four years, a reduction in the number of users without a family doctor by 1 to 3 million. Do you know what your government did in four years? Look, you just reduced that number to 118 000! See the « consecution» there, Mrs Deputies! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] Therefore, you must be more cautious, Mrs. Member, when you come here « drop rockets»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u32	Don't teach me lessons, because I've been in primary school for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u33	... because, indeed, this is the failure of an election promise: they did not guard the placement of family doctors. In addition, we also learned today about competitions for doctors specialists with vacancies to fill.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u34	Do you have any proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u35	Therefore, you are hastening to maintain the same strategy, with numbers and half-truths, but then there is reality that comes to deny your fictional reality. We could talk about hospitals, too. Where is your "acquisition"?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u36	I asked you a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u37	How many new hospitals have you opened your government in this legislature? Do you remember how many opened the previous government in the period of financial assistance and under the intervention of the troika? Oh, my God! For it is, Mrs Deputy, indeed, of what we are talking about is of an alternative reality that your government builds, ignoring the strain of finances applied to health,... [[He's not responding to anything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u38	... ignoring the consequences of this for the Portuguese and selling to all a deficit that is no more than what the Portuguese suffer, every day, in the worst quality public services that you simply wanted to suffocate; and, more, ignoring professionals, ignoring the conditions in which they work those who are in fact the real pillar of the SNS and the health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u40	To conclude, Mrs Deputy, yes, we have chosen priorities. That which Mrs Deputies spoke about may be one, but it is particularly unpleasant to say that we do not care about health, when we are the party that made more inquiries to the government, which made more political statements about health, which made more proposals about health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u41	And the vote? Where's the vote? [[Take a vote!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u42	Once again, Mrs Deputy, it was a 'discontinuation' from her side, but the Portuguese are already getting used to it. It's time to move! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u43	What a taste! Don't replace the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u44	16 were registered. Members to request clarification from the Minister, who informed the Bureau that she will jointly respond to two sets of eight Members. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Health has presented herself in this debate, applying to her the same recipe that the Government always applies when it is confronted with reality. When the country expects answers, the government now apologizes, it says that the blame is another government, the previous government, now that we are close to the elections, announces investment plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u46	Do you think that's wrong? Oh, my God! Are you against investment plans? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u47	The Minister has not failed this infallible recipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u49	After the public investment, and also the investment in health, having fallen to levels never seen, came here and said: « This year it will be! Now, advertise an investment plan! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u50	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u51	But, Mrs. Minister, it is appropriate that these ads resist the test of reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u52	Convenient!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u53	... and it is appropriate that they also resist the test of those who, every day, experience what health centers are, what hospitals are, what Portuguese people are looking for health care. I would like to ask what Mrs. Minister answered, not to the CDS, but, for example, to the Doctors' Barbecue, when she says that the National Health Service is probably worse than 20 years ago, or when she says that, since it is Bastonary, there is no serious investment in the SNS. I would like to know whether the answer Mrs Minister has for this is: "Look, there has not been, for four years, since I am in the government that is not there, but now it is now that it will be! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u55	Mr. Minister, with this government, normal practice has become the government and hospital administrations, service directors and clinical directors dialogue on the basis of threats of resignation. When someone in a hospital wants to be heard, he has to threaten to resign to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u56	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u57	That happened to you, Minister! It happened at the hospitals of Santarém, Algarve, Tondela-Viseu, Lisboa Central, in the Matternidad Alfredo da Costa, in Amadora-Sintra, in Aveiro, in Gaia-Spinho, in an overwhelming form, in the Guarda, in the Hospital Dona Estefânia, in Leiria. Madam Minister, I would like you to be able to ensure that we will no longer be confronted with requests for resignation, because simply the teams cannot work under the conditions that the government provides. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u58	Finally, Mrs Minister, and why, yes, it also affects the patients and because if the services do not work well is also because this government has been able to make many promises but few accounts, I would like it to explain why the total debt of the SNS has increased because of what this government has received, why the debt of the SNS has increased because of what this government has received and why the debt of hospitals has also increased because of what this government has received. And, Mrs. Minister, you can find all the explanations, you can even say that this is just numbers, but numbers, and these numbers, reflect a reality of operating difficulties that Mrs. Minister cannot deny. Therefore, it is time to offer answers, but true answers. By the way, I would like to ask you, because the subject has been talked about here very much, by the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João. If I were to believe in the promises that several members of your government and various members of the Socialist Party here have now done the work for the construction of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João would be on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u60	I would like to know if the only answer Mrs. Minister has is that she has already given: perhaps, with luck, there by the end of the year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u61	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and other members of the government, the first note I would like to leave, at the beginning of this debate, is to record a happy coincidence of timetable for this interpellation of the CDS-PP, fortunately, not to have coincided with the World Theatre Day, which was signed yesterday, because the truth is that the staging is weak and the script is not a big thing either! [[CDS-PP protests.]] But let's see how the piece develops, but it seems to me that quality won't increase much. In fact, we even have the impression that a part of the script that the CDS-PP brings to this debate has in its drafting the finger of the economic groups. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Looks like us! It seems to us that someone wrote the CDS-PP script! This explains why the CDS-PP is trying to get the idea of degradation of the National Health Service to pass on because, after all, what it defends...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u63	Tell me where! Where do you stand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u64	... is the hypothesis that then the conventionees replace the National Health Service. That also explains the fact that CDS-PP is so upset...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u65	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u66	... with this prospect of having a new law of bases for health! He's very angry with this! Why? Is it because there is the prospect of a new basic law for health to withdraw—and still well! — what exists in the current basic law, which says that the National Health Service should abdicate its professionals to mobilize them for the private sector? Oh, my God! Maybe that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u67	Talk to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u68	Why is he still so angry? Oh, my God! Is it because the perspective of a new basic health law will remove what is shamefully existing in the current basic law, where it is said that the National Health Service should abdicate from its internment beds to reserve a market share for the private? Oh, my God! That could be it! Therefore, the script is a bit badly done, does not dignify the theatre very much, but has a authorship, at least a co-authorship, which is essentially the economic groups by which the CDS-PP speaks. But let's talk about important things for the National Health Service, which is certainly not what the CDS-PP brings here. The Minister spoke of investment, and today they were approved in the Council of Ministers EUR 90 million. It is better than nothing EUR 90 million, it is better than EUR 80 million, but, Madam Minister, of course, the government can do much more than this. We also believe that the government has the budgetary instruments to do more than that. The State Budget for 2019 approved a EUR 500 million increase in the budget of the National Health Service. It is true that this reinforcement had the vote against the PSD and the CDS-PP, nothing to be strange about it, but it is also true that the government can do much more than this, especially from the professional point of view. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister whether today the Council of Ministers has discussed the decree of review of nurses' career. The proposal for a decree was put to the public discussion more than a month ago. It is a bad proposal because it does not recognize what should be recognised, which is the right to career progression of these professionals, does not recognize what should be recognised, which is the accounting of all years of service with a view to career progression. We know that amendments have been made to this draft decree-law during the period of hearing and public discussion. I would like to ask whether the Government has already approved or whether it is willing to make changes that recognize the full time of service and the advancement of the career of these professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u69	We continue with requests for clarification to the Minister. To that end, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ms. Minister of Health, the National Health Service is synonymous with quality health care and provided in safety conditions. Although the PSD and CDS try to negrate and discredit the SNS to favor and support the large economic groups that profit from the disease business, the fact is that the SNS provides health care in Portugal in better safety conditions and with better quality levels. It is true, Mrs. Minister, that over these four years an effort has been made to remove the hole,... [[It's the hole, it's the hole!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u71	...to remove the SNS from the hole for which CDS and PSD pushed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u73	They are many acronyms, but the numbers identify this in a simpler way. It is that the National Health Service, in the last 10 years, the 3 years in which it had lower government budget transfer levels were precisely three years of PSD and CDS government. The years 2015, 2013, 2011. [[PSD protests.]] And, according to the data that were made available for the first time in 2018 — since 2010 that did not happen — the SNS will have reached a budget of EUR 10 billion. This is the reflection of the effort that has been made to withdraw the National Health Service from the hole where the PSD and CDS governments have launched it, so that the policies of the CEP (Stability and Growth Program) and the aggression pact have launched the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Minister, it is obvious that the situation of the SNS today is different from that difficult situation that the PSD and the CDS have left, but it is also obvious that this does not console us, Mrs. Minister. This is because we also learned two days ago, by the data of the INE (National Institute of Statistics)...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u74	Mr. João Oliveira, I ask you for a second break, because there is a lot of noise in the room. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members standing to sit or leave the Chamber and the Members or the Members. Members or officials who are in the Chamber to let the work proceed normally. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Mr João Oliveira, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, Mrs Minister, the fact that today the situation is different from that which the previous PSD and CDS government left, this does not console us, because we were also aware of the implementation of the 2018 Budget, that the Government had EUR 600 million for investment in the budget that it did not use, because it placed as priority the fulfilment of the deficit targets imposed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u76	We vote for PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u77	in this option to give priority to the deficit targets imposed by Brussels, we know that the government has the support of the PSD and the CDS, but this remains a bad option because it leaves the country with no answer to the problems that had to be solved. And in particular in health, Mrs. Minister, this is crucial, because the National Health Service needs, like bread for mouth, investment in hospitals, investment in primary health care, investment in integrated care, investment in infrastructure and equipment, which are necessary, particularly complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, so that the SNS itself does not have to use the provision of private services outside the SNS, so that within the SNS, it can do everything the users need. In particular, Mrs. Minister, it is essential that no longer delay the investment that needs to be made in the construction of new hospitals, whose need is identified: central hospital of Alentejo, hospital of Seixal, hospital of Lisboa, hospital of Algarve, Barcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u78	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u79	Also the hospitals of Vila do Conde, of Póvoa de Varzim, of Beja need investment to improve the conditions of response to their users and in equipment this is also absolute need. It was years and years, particularly during the four years of the government that Mr Nuno Magalhães and the CDS members supported, without 1 € of investment in many hospitals, equipment that was absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u80	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u81	The question I would like to leave to you, Minister, is the following: what will be the government's option in 2019? Will the government use all the investment capacity that the Budget allows or will once again put the deficit targets, imposed by Brussels, in front of the investment that needs to be carried out in the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u82	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u83	To continue this first round of requests for clarification to Mr. Minister, you have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, over the last 24 hours, the Minister has made three serious and worrying statements that we have to revisit. Ms.Minister said that there are no precarious workers in the National Health Service, that will not fulfill the promise to guarantee a family doctor for all Portuguese, that there is no lack of resources in the SNS and that the worsening of waiting times we have verified is the sole responsibility of mismanagement of hospital administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u85	This is indecent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u86	Precautions, promises, responsibility — three concepts with which the Government and the left have had some difficulty in dealing with and which today, in fact, we have a duty to step up. Let's start with the precarious workers. After the herculean effort during the years of the troika, in which we inherited EUR 130 million of expenditure per year on precarious work— doctors are hired to green receipts to service providers, without integration into services, without labour rights—
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u87	You are voting against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u88	... we have fallen to EUR 80 million and you, the precarious fighters, have increased to more than EUR 100 million per year. In addition, recently the PSD visited the Azambuja Health Centre and was there a doctor, a colleague of general and family medicine, who had not received for more than two months and had been hired on that route. And is the Minister now coming to say that there is no precarious work in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! How is that possible? I leave the question to you, Minister: how can it be under the rule of the left-wings that workers are left to their fate? [[PSD applause.]] More, Mrs. Minister, and let's go to the second concept, which is the concept of promises. Former Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes, current Minister Marta Temido, Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, who in so many 15-day debates 15 days after 15 days repeated the old promise, present in your Election Programme and in your Government Programme, that they would provide a family doctor for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u89	It's 9, 5 million Portuguese with a family doctor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u90	They are more than half a million Portuguese without a family doctor today, and the Minister, yesterday, as if nothing, came to say that she will not, after all, comply. Madam Minister, I ask you once again to make it clear: will the government not fulfill this promise and break it before the Portuguese? [[PS protests.]] Third concept, the concept of responsibility. This is a very important concept because we're in front of broken hospitals. We visited hospitals and all say they have fewer resources today, fewer hours of work for professionals, starting with nurses and other professionals, without response capacity, which is why waiting times increase. They increase waiting times for consultations, increase waiting times for surgeries, for complementary examinations, in some cases hundreds of days, up to one thousand days of waiting for a first specialty consultation. And what's the Minister's response to this? That there is no shortage of resources, that it is the fault of the hospital administrators. I sincerely imagine a hospital administrator at home, attending the debate, and thinking, "Oh, hell, then, isn't that the Minister who appoints the hospital administrations? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Or you might even think: "Oh, hell, isn't the Minister resigning hospital administrators when they don't fulfill their responsibilities? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So the question remains: will the Minister withdraw the words she said yesterday or will say here, because she has this responsibility, who will resign because she is mismanaging the hospitals of the National Health Service? [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is clear is that, with this government, precarious workers are not a priority, promises are not to be fulfilled and responsibility is always for others and, unfortunately, those who pay are always Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u91	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr João Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, today's question is whether degradation in the SNS is reality or fiction. That's the point. Let's get to the point, Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Are there more than 200 000 consultations a year in hospitals today? Are there more than 15 000 surgeries a year in hospitals today? Today, is there or are there no more 1800 medical specialists in hospitals? Today, are there or are there no more 4,000 nurses in hospitals? Today, are there or are there no more 8800 health professionals in the SNS? Today, is there or is there no more 700,000 Portuguese with a family doctor? Today, is there or is there no more EUR 1400 million in the SNS budget? [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, what is the reality? The one that this right here is trying to come by or is that what I just mentioned? The Socialist Party understands that there is still much to do in strengthening the SNS, besides all that has already been done, but very different is to say that one could go further, that one should have done even more, that there is a degradation of the SNS! Degradation was the result of the four years of policies of the PSD Government and the CDS. When there were cuts of EUR 1000 million in the SNS budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u93	Four Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u94	... when they subtracted 2500 professionals from SNS ; when they frozen innovative therapy; when they increased moderate rates! Degradation was the state in which you, who were responsible, left the SNS! Who failed the Portuguese were you for the four years of your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u95	And we won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u96	This government, on the contrary, has done a serious recovery work. What has to be here is a serious, political debate on the right and the correct and concrete analysis of the situations and not its opposite! Therefore, Mrs Minister, following all that has already been done by this government, I would like to ask you about what the next steps to be taken in this path of recovery of the SNS until the end of the legislature and what the main objectives to be achieved in the area of access, financing, autonomy and human resources are demonstrating the work that has already been done and that will still be carried out during this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u97	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, health is again a topic of discussion in this plenary, which means that the problems in this area continue. Things are not well and access to health care by Portuguese continues to have serious problems, which leads us to say that the state of health is not recommended. On this subject, I want to leave two previous notes: the first is to say that we know that health problems are not new, they are not now, they are not today. In fact, the underfunding that SNS has known over several decades by several governments is the PS, PSD or CDS-PP, certainly has a significant weight in the current health situation and, in particular, the passage of the former Government to the country's destinations. As we know, it has been four years of clearly indistinguishable and inseparable guidance on an ideological line which has called into question, as never before, access to health care by SNS users and which has had repercussions not only in the short term, but also, as it is being observed, in the medium and long term. For example, it led to a widespread and obvious lack of human resources in the National Health Service, in hospitals and in primary health care units. These were the achievements of the previous government in the field of health. And, speaking of achievements, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto spoke of the achievement of the previous Government on Family Doctors. Mr Deputy, it cannot be said that the previous government has reduced the number of Portuguese without family doctors from 1 million to 1 million. That is not enough to say, it is necessary to say how the government has done this, because there are no omelettes without eggs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u100	And since you did not say so, I am going to say: what the previous government did was just to increase the number of users on each doctor's lists and with this file, not to say with this trick, each doctor started to have 1900 Portuguese, instead of the 1550 they had before. Mrs. Deputy, that's easy, it's just making an account and dividing. So it's very easy, it's solving in the secretary. Madam Minister, the second note is that we do not underestimate the measures taken by this government to reverse the situation left by the previous government. In fact, as much as it costs some benches, the truth is that some steps have already been taken to counter these policies, which have left health more fragile than ever. Today, we have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in several areas, but, Mrs. Minister, it is not enough, as you are seeing, it is not enough. We have more professionals, it is true, but it is also true that they are still insufficient. In addition, it is still necessary to bear in mind the sharp degradation of workers' rights, which the Government delays in giving the appropriate response. There is therefore still much to do and time is beginning to be short. Mrs. Minister, I want to ask you three questions. The first is about the Hospital de São João, more specifically about the new pediatric wing. In the government forecast, the start of the works on the ground should take place at the end of this year. We would like to know what the situation is and whether everything is running in such a way that the works actually start at the end of this year. The second is the second: there are many users who have been waiting for more than a year for consultations or surgeries with normal priority in hospitals. The Government's commitment is that these users will be cared for by the end of this year and we would like the Minister to share with us the efforts that the Government is developing to ensure that these users are actually cared for by the end of this year. In conclusion, Mrs. Minister, doctors and their representative organizations are experiencing an impasse with regard to the discussion with the Government on medical career and wage grid. They even say that the situation is becoming unsustainable and even speaks of new forms of struggle. In addition, what is true is that, with these working conditions, it will not be strange for many doctors to leave hospitals to go to the private sector or even emigrate. What I was interested in, Mrs. Minister, was to tell us where the discussion is and the negotiations with these professionals on medical career and wage grid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u101	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u102	Mr President, Madam Health Minister, today we are discussing the issue of health. It is unfortunate that what should be the focus of political discussion is always forgotten. In the discussion of health, the parties discuss who built more hospitals, who invested in more contracts, who increased the number of beds, who made more consultations, or who most promises failed. Go to the source of the problem, that is, to reduce the number of patients reaching hospitals, nothing. About prevention, nothing. Forty years after the creation of the SNS, excellent health results are undeniable. The Portuguese live more, it is undeniable, but they live with an excessive burden of disease. We live in a demographic context marked by population ageing, with a huge increase in chronic diseases and a high number of people with multiple diseases. We are from the European countries with the highest number of healthy years of life lost. We live longer, but it doesn't mean we live better. And why? Essentially, due to inadequate eating habits, which are the main ones responsible for the morbidity and loss of quality of life of people. But these eating habits are likely to be modified and avoided. The future viability of the SNS requires a commitment to health promotion and disease prevention, which should be a government priority which invests only 1% of the health budget in prevention. The State’s charges with medicines for the treatment of chronic diseases have increased from year to year. Only diabetes represents an estimated direct cost of almost 1 % of Portuguese GDP (gross domestic product), representing around 10 % of health expenditure. The annual cost of antidiabetic drugs is about EUR 280 million — EUR 770 000 per day — and with medicines for cardiovascular diseases about EUR 350 million, i.e. about EUR 1 million per day. If we think that the volume of charges with this type of drugs has had an annual growth greater than GDP, it will not be difficult to understand that unless there is a firm commitment to improving the food behaviour of Portuguese, the SNS will become unsustainable! It is imperative that food be in all policies! We can't just continue to focus on disease treatment strategies and we can't miss out on leading health promotion issues through food. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you five questions. First, we have an integrated strategy for promoting healthy, well-designed diet, but when is it put into practice? Second, when does the National Council for Food and Nutritional Security begin to work, approved last July by the Council of Ministers? Thirdly, when will the government's promise to create a nutritionist career be fulfilled? Fourth, for all Portuguese schools there are only two nutritionists, I repeat, two nutritionists for all Portuguese schools. For when is a reinforcement of these technicians? Fifth and last issue, the same state that laws on advertising addressed to children and prohibits schools from advertising sweets and soft drinks is the same state that offers chocolate milk in schools, a drink with a high sugar content, creating, from early on, the habit of consuming sugar in children and transmitting a misleading message to parents, who think, after all, it is a healthy food. Mrs. Minister, when is the end of the distribution of milk chocolate in schools and the promotion of adequate food for children?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u103	To conclude the first round of requests for clarification, Mr Luís Vales, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health, today's appeal is the balance sheet of four years of unfulfilled promises. A good example of this is the area of medicine, in particular that of generic medicines that, we know well, are a fundamental tool for patients to be able to buy the medicines they need so much. Therefore, the former PSD Government increased the market share of generic medicines from 31 % to 47 %, an increase of 16 percentage points which resulted in a direct and significant saving for Portuguese families. In 2016, however, the current Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, promised to raise that market share of generics in units to 60% at the end of the Legislature — 60%, Minister! It happens that we are already six months from the end of the legislature and the truth is that the share of generics not only did not rise, as promised, as it stagnated during these three and a half years, in the 48%. Worse: in the first two months of this year, this proportion of generic medicines in units has even suffered a break of 0, 3 percentage points, falling from 48, 5 % to 48, 2 %, a serious and unimaginable fact three years ago. Mrs Minister, I asked you here a few months ago what measures would be taken to allow the Portuguese to have access to cheaper generic medicines. I said at the time that I was worried and that I was going to take action. Unfortunately, nothing has been done and the results are in sight. It is that in medicine, as in so many other areas of health, only the Portuguese can wait for elections and give rise to a competent government that solves the problems that you have created or have not been able to solve. Mrs. Minister says you're worried, but that's not enough. I ask you: how does this government failure in medicine policy explain? How did the government stop and even now deteriorate the share of generic medicines in the drug market, preventing citizens from having access to cheaper and more affordable medicines? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u105	You have the word, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was asked Mrs Cecilia Meireles to comment on the claim that the National Health Service is today worse than it was 20 years ago. I would like to recall that 20 years ago there were no family health units, that 20 years ago there had been no innovative management experiences in hospitals and the path to autonomy, that today we were back on track, that it had not even been started, that 20 years ago there had no continuous integrated care, that 20 years ago there had not been the set of technologies that exist today at the disposal of the Portuguese. It's worth saying 20 years ago there was a self-service strike in the medical profession. So, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I think 20 years ago we weren't worse than we are today. Moreover, this speech that we were worse, I can't help but say, also comes from a professional public association that was against the creation of the National Health Service. How do I respond to applications for resignation? I reply that they will always have the Ministry of Health more attention to the difficulties experienced by the leaders of our services and all the availability to improve the difficulties they report. But the best way to do it is not with public demonstrations, but with conversation, with work, with dialogue. They ask us about debt, they tell us that debt is worse now than it was at the end of 2015. I would say that debt is at the same level: EUR 455 million at the end of 2015 and EUR 486 million at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u107	486 is more than 455!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u108	It is worth saying what will happen to the pediatric wing of the University Hospital Center of São João and reiterate what we have said for this purpose: that the project of this pediatric wing is now ending to be reviewed, having a concrete plan in the sense that the next phase, after April, passes through the review of the project and the subsequent phase passes through the launch of the competitive procedure. And at the end of this year or at the beginning of the next -- because there are vicissitudes... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u109	You do not like uncertainty about the exact dates, but you have to realize that the commitments made are this: to say what we know about the future that lies ahead. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And the future that awaits us is: a project at the end of this month; a review of the project in the following month; in September or even before that, the launch of the procedure; and then, depending on the contest and possible vicissitudes that it may have, the beginning of the work at the end of this year or at the beginning of the next year. It is also worth saying in this regard that we are mainly concerned about ensuring that children who are still in the Pavilionary facilities are re-housing within the hospital. This will be done in the coming month and thus the immediate problem will be solved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Moisés Ferreira asked what happened to the nursing career and what was today's decision of the Council of Ministers on this process. Mr President, what we have said about this is what we continue and we will continue to say. We made a huge path of approach to the demands of the nursing profession. We were able to ensure that the 40 hours that existed for workers in public employment contracts at the beginning of the legislature were reduced to 35 hours. I understand that some parliamentary groups insist that we should have kept 40 hours, but we do not comply with that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u110	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u111	On the contrary, we have gone further and extended the 35-hour scheme to workers in individual employment contracts, something that was not even in the government's commitments and which is now part of the rights acquired. Sometimes, at times, these rights are even forgotten, as if they had always been like this, but they were not! We went further and rejected the remuneration, rejected the value of additional work and discussed a nursing career that welcomed the claim of the category of "specialist nurse", for which we created a pay supplement. This career, published in BTE (Employment and Labour Bulletin), which has ended its public hearing and which has been under consideration today in the Council of Ministers, will now follow the legislative process and for which I am not therefore going to take a decision at this time. This career provided for the inclusion of this supplement in the remuneration itself, starting to be paid 14 months per year, and the inclusion of the category « specialist nurse ». But we went even further: we responded to the wishes of the nurses regarding the category of "manager", we solved old problems that had to do with the integration of the remaining categories — the old nurses and the old nurses supervisors — and we responded to professional nursing career contents that respond to the differentiation that you nurses today have as an essential body of the professions that are part of the National Health Service and that serve it daily. Mr. João Oliveira asked what our investment options were for 2019. Mr President, our options are those of the budget we have presented here, which have already been defended and which I have mentioned again today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u112	Are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u113	These are options that are going through a reinforcement in the investment of the National Health Service and which aims to accommodate two needs. On the one hand, the need to increase the impact of the remuneration of the sector's professionals, with everything that was the result of the political options that we made clearly and of which we did not regret. On the other hand, it is also the need to manage the best possible efficiency in order to achieve, not only in terms of improving public accounts, but also in terms of the SNS accounts, the implementation of an investment programme which has materialized so much in what we have already announced and implementing — the investment in 79 new family health units and the remodelling of a diversified set of equipment — as we have today adopted in the Council of Ministers, with the reinforcement of more than 90 million euros of investment in the health sector. This investment goes through the implementation of a set of projects that have long been claimed by hospitals and that will allow, in various areas, such as energy efficiency and improved energy performance of the National Health Service facilities and infrastructures, as well as in other areas involving treatment, the reduction of external dependence and other providers. Therefore, we are bet on this line of improvement of our National Health Service and we will not give up on it. Our investment options reflect this very, as they reflect that we will not be distracted in relation to the realization of new hospitals, which can be long announced, but only with us...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u114	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u115	In fact, only very recently it was possible to channel the first tranche of the investment necessary for the completion of the new central hospital of Alentejo. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Baptista Leite, asked me about the precarious work in the National Health Service, the goal of coverage by doctors of general and family medicine and the fault of the hospital administrators. Mr President, I would like to point out that the providers of medical services are precarious workers, in fact, a demagogy of which I would not remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u116	It's from there, from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u117	I wouldn't remember! What we have done, in this legislature, was to carry out an extensive program of regularization of precarious links in public administration, especially in hospitals, and we are concluding it successfully. The choice of some workers to keep working through companies comes from a party that supports businesses, trade and the economy, something that I cannot help but wonder. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] Mr. Deputies, the goal of covering Portuguese by family doctor is something that does not distract us. What we assume, if normal movements occur, was the possibility of achieving this goal if we withdraw all the doctors who will be formed now, in the first period of 2019. If we are not able to retain, too, the retirements that are under way, we can probably risk that this will not be fully met, but we will come closer to each other. I understand you don't live well with that, but let's get closer! As for the fault of the hospital administrators, I leave a first note: the hospital administrators are not the board of directors, they are a specific professional group — I am very proud to integrate — who works in hospitals, but not only on the board of directors. Therefore, it is certainly not the fault of the hospital administrators, as it is not the board of directors. Probably, the boards of administration need, as all those who are dedicated to working in the National Health Service need to make a better effort towards the efficient management of the means at their disposal. That's what the Portuguese expect of us. With regard to the question of the medical wage grid, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would like to tell you that at the moment there is no negotiation of this career on the table. The values proposed to us are certainly a subject that would be worth addressing in the context of the balance of the various careers of the Public Administration. Mr André Silva, public health does not stop worrying about us and, therefore, assuredly, all the issues related to nutrition, food and healthy food are well reflected in our work in this area and we will not give up on continuing to pursue them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u118	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We will enter the second round of questions, the first being the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, through Mrs Teresa Caeiro. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u119	Mr President, Minister, the sales of psychopharmaceuticals do not stop growing in Portugal. According to the director of the National Program for Mental Health, Prof. Miguel Xavier, in Portugal, twice the European average is consumed in anxiolytics and antidepressants. The Director of the Program also recalled that family doctors often do not have the resources necessary to treat people without drugs, saying: "Doctors receive patients, but do not have where to refer them. And what do they do? Medic. » And he also states that there are cases where an approach without medication would be possible. In fact, it argues that investment in mental health should become a priority and should be “proportional to the suffering that causes patients and families”. Mr. Minister, these data and statements are dated October 2018. More than five months later, what has the government done to make mental health a de facto priority, as has been so often promised by the Minister and her predecessors? What measures have been taken in primary health care? Where can family doctors refer patients who need an approach that does not go through the pharmacological approach? Yesterday, when it was questioned, in hearing, concerning pilot projects announced by its predecessor, the Minister said that they would have to be extended for another 18 months, as pilot projects, because they faced several difficulties in their application. I would like you to realise, please, what difficulties you have faced and what the situation is. A very special aspect of mental illness is related to dementia and Alzheimer's. Draft resolutions have already been adopted several times in the Assembly of the Republic which recommend that the Government consider dementia and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority, that it develop a national plan for intervention for dementias, that appropriate measures be taken for these patients and that the status of the informal caregiver be created and implemented. Mrs. Minister, the number of people suffering from dementia has not even been lifted, particularly from Alzheimer's disease. That wasn't even done! The only data we have are those resulting from extrapolations from other countries of the European Union. Mrs. Minister, there are hundreds of thousands of families with mental patients who are currently living a drama because they do not have to treat and accompany their family members. In the SNS there are vacancies, but they are few and far from meeting real needs. There are also other cases where the units are already built, the vacancies exist, but since there are no agreements, these vacancies are to be filled and the patients remain unaccompanied. This government's commitment occurred in April 2017, in the launch of the National Network of Integrated Mental Health Care. The Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, publicly stated that « the development of continuous care integrated in mental health is absolutely decisive ». The previous Minister of Health repeated many times that mental health was a priority for the government. But where is this priority reflected? Where is the priority of these patients and their families reflected? You're not, Minister. For example, in the Alentejo, two pilot projects were planned, but by the end of 2018 none of these had been opened. I shall conclude, Mrs Minister, by saying that the principle that supposedly presides over ongoing mental health reform is community-friendly care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u120	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u121	I shall now conclude, Mr President. But he is the director of the Programme himself to recognize the difficulty of starting with them, saying: "Is Portugal attached to community mental health teams to give the necessary answers? » And the response of the Director of the Program is that no, that Portugal is not attached.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u122	Like the ladies and gentlemen. You know, the time for questions is up to four minutes. Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u123	Mr President, first of all, I am in agreement with the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, in particular Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, because of the importance, seriousness and even the seriousness of some of the issues that are being discussed here. We never imagine that, at the end of four approved State budgets, at the end of an entire legislature, many of the issues we are discussing today were still of such importance and so urgent debate. Secondly, I welcome Mrs. Minister of Health. I congratulate you, of course, on the methodology chosen to respond to this House. It seems to us that answering eight questions at a time is exactly what must be done in good parliamentary practice. So nothing should be left to answer, everything should be answered carefully and, therefore, Mrs. Minister, the answer to eight questions at a time seems the ideal... Thirdly, I would like to say to the Minister that this debate would be almost indispensable, not the present and serious nature of the subject. It is because so many are the announcements by the end of the year, in short, for the next government and for 'anyone who comes to settle' that almost worth both the Members and the Members. Members will wait for the next government so that we can ask questions about some of the issues discussed here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u124	Mr President, I still welcome you. Members of the Left Block, of the PCP, of the Greens Ecological Party and some of them Members of the Socialist Party, apparently protesting, artificially demanding, but who, at the time of truth, approve everything and "a pair of boots", and don't cough. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u125	What is "a pair of boots"?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u126	Mr Minister, the question I bring to you here has to do with a problem that affects 1, 2 million people, who normally discount 3, 5 % of their maturity for a subsystem that was to date self-financed when these citizens were in need of protection in the disease—I am talking about ADSE. And I said that, until today, this subsystem was self-financed, because, Mrs. Minister, by its inaction, by the failure of the government, by the silence of the parties that support it, today the sustainability of this Periga subsystem, questioning the certainty and trust of ADSE users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u127	Is the spokesman for the José de Mello Saúde Group speaking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u128	The Minister herself, in February, in a rather unfortunate way, said even irresponsible, "If ADSE ends, it is not the end of the world and the SNS never closes the door to anyone". It was in such a way that Mr Prime Minister had to deny his statements. Mr Minister, the General and Supervisory Council itself of ADSE says, in a study presented to it, that ADSE urgently needs to extend its lot of taxpayers and beneficiaries so that it can be sustainable. The question I leave you with is: is this going to be next year? You're gonna be from here two years? How many governments are you going to be from here? When will your government and the Minister of Health act with regard to this health subsystem? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u129	Only out of cowardice is they don't assume they want health insurance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u130	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u131	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to leave Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro to ask you what contribution you think would make to the sustainability of ADSE the 40 million that privates owe to taxpayers, beneficiaries, civil servants and not only do not want to pay, as to not pay, they blackmail with the health of more than one million beneficiaries of this health subsystem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u133	It was 40 million that would serve very well for the sustainability of ADSE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u134	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u135	But when the PSD comes here, it seems to worry about the situation of these beneficiaries and has to choose which side it wants to stay, it is on the blackmail side, it is on the side of the private ones, it is not on the side of the beneficiaries to whom 40 million more were collected in products and prescriptions charged above price. [[PSD protests.]] Ms. Minister, ADSE is a subsystem of civil servants for which they pay between €22 and more than €100 per month of their salary, is a subsystem that always ran parallel to the National Health Service and which has ended up becoming a complementary subsystem that is paid exclusively by public servants. [[PSD protests.]] There are two ways to look at the ADSE subsystem. There is one way, which is ours, which is to protect the beneficiaries, i.e. to ensure that ADSE is a transparent system, well managed, strictly, ensuring that there is no fraud. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the National Health Service is universal and that, therefore, while ADSE protects public officials, the SNS protects all citizens, regardless of the health subsystem they have. On the other hand, there are the private 'eyes', which are the 'eyes' that the PSD and the CDS put on when they look at ADSE : they protect the business installed by defending blackmail against beneficiaries, increasing the benefit to 3, 5 % of the salary, while ignoring the warnings of fraud, overcrowding drugs, overprescribing medical acts, lack of transparency and lack of supervision. If the privates charge 40 million more, the CDS says "it's all right, there's no problem"! If the privates say they want to collect what they want, when they want, without supervision, the PSD says "it's all right, there's no problem!" If the President of the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association says "there is fraud, and this fraud questions the safety of patients, with prescriptions of surgical acts that are not necessary and with deviation of patients", CDS and PSD say "it's all right, there's no problem!" For PSD and CDS only two things matter: the profit of the private and make ADSE a "Troia horse" against the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u137	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u138	We don't accept that! I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, how will the government demand the refund of the 40 million that have been overcrowded to ADSE beneficiaries and how it will combat abuse, fraud, lack of transparency and the lack of rigour of the private who harm the beneficiaries of ADSE. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u139	You have the floor, too, to make requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, for the SNS to provide quality care in safety and in a timely manner of professionals in appropriate and motivated numbers. It is true that, in these three years, there have been progress in the replacement of rights, but we need to go further. It is necessary to move forward with solutions to defrosting the progressions of nurses, doctors, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. We need to create the career of medical action assistants. It is necessary to move forward with a review of nurses' career, which guarantees the appreciation and dignity of the work of these professionals. It is necessary to respect the rights of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, correcting the transition process in the new career. It is necessary to move forward in negotiations with doctors so that their career is dignified and their working conditions are improved. Progress needs to be made in reducing the number of undifferentiated doctors and allowing everyone access to specialized medical training. Mrs Minister, problem resolution and the realization of fair demands from professionals must be implemented and quickly. in this sense, I ask: will the Government of the Socialist Party hire more professionals, those who are missing? Will you create the career of medical action auxiliary technician, always devalued professionals but so important for the provision of quality and safety health care? Will in the career of nurses contemplate the risk and penosity that mark this profession? Are you going to value, in terms of wages, the work of nurses? Madam Minister, will the government commit itself here with an effective fight against precariousness, tolls, in the National Health Service? That's what the Portuguese need, that's what users demand and professionals demand! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u141	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u142	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Yesterday, the PSD Parliamentary Group confronted the Minister with the dramatic situation in which hospital pharmacy services are located. Today, and until the end of next week, the Portimão unit at the Algarve Hospital Center is not preparing chemotherapy for cancer patients, an unthinkable situation and an unlimited gravity!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u143	Very serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u144	This despite the fact that Mr State Secretary yesterday denied this situation. But denial does not solve reality. However, the situations of weakness of pharmaceutical services in hospitals do not occur only in the Algarve. Mrs Bastonária of the Order of Pharmaceuticals said — and the words are not mine — that "we have reached the red line". And he gave the examples of the Hospital Centers of Coimbra and Hospitals of São João, Santo António, Gaia and Lisbon, among many others. We have broken services, where more than one hundred pharmacists are missing, where hundreds of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians are also missing, as are dozens of technical and operational assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u146	We have professionals who don't work 35 hours a week, not 40, but sometimes 60 or 80 hours, like, some days ago, said a person in charge, who also realized that fatigue is building up and that people are totally demotivated. More serious: the people who work in these services are in burnout. To all this we heard yesterday Mrs Health Minister answered and admitted that there are shortcomings in hospital pharmacies, but that there are no situations of insecurity, which call into question these services. in this sense, I asked Mrs. Minister a very direct question: can you ensure that the current conditions of operation of hospital pharmacies in the National Health Service do not enhance the occurrence of errors, thus endangering the life and safety of patients? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u147	The use of the word, to ask for clarification, Mr John Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mrs Minister, with regard to the difficulties in the access of Portuguese to health care, although progress has been made, many difficulties still persist, which are the result of decades of right-wing policy of successive governments, in particular of the last Government, PSD / CDS,... [[PSD protests.]] ... which led to the closure of proximity services and the increase of health costs for families. However, we note as positive the progress that has been made and for which the CFP intervention and initiative has been decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u150	It was on the initiative of the CFP that the strengthening of support for informal caregivers was approved; it was on the initiative of the CFP that the strengthening of the National Vaccination Programme was approved; it was on the initiative of the CFP that the extension of Community Support Teams in Palliative Care was approved; it was on the initiative of the CFP that the increase of generic medicines in value to 30% was approved. All these measures respond to the need to improve Portuguese access to health care. However, the Portuguese would have other conditions for access to the SNS if the PCP proposals had been approved with respect to the non-emergency transport allocation to all SNS users, as well as other conditions for access to SNS had been approved if such proposals as the exemption of moderate rates for chronic patients, the creation of community mental health teams, the extension of the Community Care Unit network, the freeness of generic medicine, cheaper to patients over 65 years of age, the free exemption of antipsychotic drugs, among so many other measures. As the Minister admits, there is a long way to go, we have no doubt about that. We also know that the PS government has not had the courage to correct the underlying problems of the SNS. Therefore, we say that the way is to move forward and not to walk back. So I ask you, Minister : is the government available to advance in response to the problems and difficulties that decisively affect access to health care? Or will you continue to maintain a policy subject to accelerated deficit reduction options?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u151	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u152	Mr President, Minister, is sitting there with the support of the PS, the Left Block and the Communist Party, the three parties that have no day to say that they are the parties to the defence of workers' rights and the parties with social sensibility. Well, Mrs. Minister, we don't know where she is. [[PS protests.]] They have not yet been able to solve the problem of defrosting the careers of nurses or teachers, these problems that the Socialist Government of Socrates created. Madam Minister, I will give you an example of governance of the Regional Government of Madeira, a PSD government, party that say they are only friends of capitalists and that they have no social sensitivity. But — look at it! — has already solved this problem and many others. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u153	This government has already solved the problem of defrosting nurses' career and has already solved the problem of defrosting teachers' career. Mrs. Minister, do you know the difference? The big difference is that there are governments, like yours, who speak, but don't do, who promise, but don't comply,... [[PS protests.]] ...but there are governments, the PSD, what they do and what they do. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Minister, why don't you follow Madeira's good example? [[PS protests.]] Because they do not follow the good example of Madeira, where there is a climate — see! — dialogue and social dialogue with nurses and teachers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u154	The next request for clarification is also from the PSD, but this time from Mr José de Matos Rosa. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u155	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We all know the importance that the National Health Service has for Portuguese. We also consider the National Health Service to be one of the most important achievements since 25 April. A health service should take care of all of them, regardless of their economic means, of where they live and of the nature of their disease, a service that knows no differences in group, class or even origin. When we celebrate the 40 years of the National Health Service this year we must be proud of the policies that successive governments have pursued, of the contribution that the numerous partners of society have made to it and, above all, of the remarkable work that their professionals have done. But if we are proud, we are also very, very worried. Today, Portugal does not have a Ministry of Health, but has a ministry of the disease, a ministry of a government that does not act, react; a ministry that disregards and demotivates the professionals of the National Health Service, threatening them, attacking them, rather than collaborating with them. A ministry that invests in health centres, hospitals and continuous care, depriving patients of adequate treatment conditions and sometimes even safety, as is currently the case in hospital pharmacies of the SNS. The consequence of these policies of degradation and deinvestment is that the constitutional precept for guaranteeing Portuguese access to health protection is not effectively being ensured. High waiting time for consultations in SNS hospitals, increased waiting lists for surgeries, overcrowded emergencies with patients who have to wait 20 hours to be cared for, all this is questioning our National Health Service. Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members, over more than three years in which I have been privileged to serve as President of the Health Commission, I have been able to hear numerous entities of the sector who have brought their hopes to Parliament, complaints, experiences and contributions, from professional orders to unions, from social economic sector entities to private partners, from patient and family associations to scientific and academic entities, also passing by hospital officials and leaders. The Government has also heard many times, in the exercise of the powers of supervision of the Assembly of the Republic, not uncommonly making its usual promises in this House of a radio tomorrow. However, almost four years have passed since you took power and the truth is that your promises have proved hollow and even vain. No one of good faith thinks the National Health Service is better today than four years ago. The case of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, which could already be done, but it did not even begin, the hospital pharmacy of the Hospital de Gaia, the lack of medical equipment at the Hospital de Santa Maria, the increase of the complaints of the users, the multiplication of the strike of doctors, nurses and other professionals, all these examples, among many others that could give, show a SNS misdirected by this government and this majority. We know that there is always a shortage of resources and we do not ignore that demographic phenomena of aging and low birthhood contribute to the challenge of the sustainability of the public health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u156	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish your request for clarification, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u157	But let us be serious: this government and the parties on the far left, who say to support it, have sacrificed the SNS to an ideological management that puts the State in place of people. We in the PSD, on the contrary, defend a universal and quality SNS, but with a management oriented to the achievement of the results and to the users. You rule to think about elections; we serve Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u158	To make a final request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u159	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Health, I have heard Mrs. Joana Mortágua here in the usual discourse of the Left Block, with her well-known position against the private...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u160	Hate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u161	... and their usual paradoxical position, because, on the one hand, the private ones are blackmailers, they only want profit, they don't want the health of the patients and they just want to take care of themselves, but on the other hand, they have to safeguard and preserve ADSE, ADSE which, I remember, is precisely the door that allows the Public Administration to deviate from the SNS to such bad, blackmailal and profit-seeking privates. Therefore, the Left Block always lives in the bamboo rope with this paradox, sometimes to one side, sometimes to the other, particularly, and as I have said here several times, in an election year, in which it does not give any way to tell the Public Administration and its beneficiaries that it is best not to go to ADSE, that it is best to go to the queues of waiting lists, that here we both hear, wait two years, in most cases, for a consultation in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u162	They're paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u163	Since you don't say that, you live with this paradox. It's your problem. Your Ministry has another paradox and Mr. Secretary of State has already publicly noted it, as I have already had occasion to confront. I quote: ‘ADSE is still a public entity and must continue the public interest. If you want to continue the private interest of your beneficiaries, then you shall privatize yourself.' In other words, the paradox of the Ministry is this: of two, one, or ADSE and the contributions of its beneficiaries serve to manage the SNS budget and as the management valve of the budgetary failures that the SNS has, or then, if it is not for that, it is better to privatize. This is the position of the Secretary of State. With so many paradoxes between the government and the parties that support it, it is clear that ADSE is in government. Therefore, to the question which I have repeatedly asked and which I did yesterday again, because still yesterday came to the Health Committee a study by Deloitte which explains that since 2021, if nothing is done, the balances of ADSE, which are positive, will become negative, leading to its unsustainability, to this Mr. Secretary of State replied to me : "We are studying". They've been studying for a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u164	They're very scholarly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u165	Deloite has already studied,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u166	A study commissioned by whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u167	...the National Supervisory Board has already studied, but the government, who has the data, is studying a year ago. I already know that Mr. Secretary of State only arrived in December, but the government started three years ago. Therefore, for the sake of sustainability in ADSE, unless you don't want it and don't say it either, it was time to make the enlargement due. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u168	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asked about mental health and priority to mental health. It is worth remembering that this is an area that has, in fact, been often derailed throughout the existence of the National Health Service and for which we have to look more carefully. That is why we have implemented pilot experiments within the framework of the National Network of Continued Mental Health Care and that is why we recently authorised and linked their extension for another 18 months with the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. We have done so, Mrs Deputies, because we have concluded from the evaluation of the initial phase of these pilot experiments, that there was indeed a set of aspects of reference for this network, of response to this network, of the responsiveness of this network to the paediatric age and to the childhood age that were not yet sufficiently mature and therefore it was necessary to give them continuity. It is worth recalling at this time, although I have already said this in my initial speech, 305 responses are working in this area, with a financial burden of more than EUR 3 million, which is distributed by 22 programme contracts. It's still worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in 2018 were assisted in this network, in these responses, 266 patients within these pilot experiments. But we do not give up, we continue to work and, therefore, more than 400 responses are identified in this area for the realization of new contracts that are currently being validated. Mrs. Members have asked me how the government is going to control the risk associated with the management of the ADSE subsystem. It is worth mentioning, in this regard, that improving management is one of our greatest concerns and we have had the support of both the ADSE Board of Directors and the General Supervisory Board of this participating public management institute, whose management model has also brought us so many challenges. currently, the review process of the existing tables is under way. The aim, we have already stated several times, is to end the open prices. We know the problems they have caused in the past, we are well aware of the difficulties associated with the process of regularizations and therefore we understand that it is necessary, regardless of the application of this tool to the pre-rite conventions, to ensure that in the future prices do not include this need for correction. That is why we are also committed to ensuring the maximum sustainability of the ADSE system. That is what we must both benefit its beneficiaries and society as a whole. As for the question that is raised about careers and new careers, we understand the expectation. What we have answered, which we have brought to this House, is the work we have already done: we have created the career of pharmacist, we have reviewed the career of nurse and, even today, in the Council of Ministers, this matter has been treated with the contemplation of a new category which, although it does not fully respond to what might be the expectations of a set of professionals working in this area, the result of the long duality of regimes existing between individual employment contracts and employment arrangements in public functions, comes in some way to respond to the growing differentiation that this profession has known and also to its role in the management area of the National Health Service. Yes, Mrs Ana Oliveira, I can assure you that the pharmacies of the hospitals of the National Health Service are working, despite any reinforcement of means that we do not give up continuing. In particular with regard to the case of Algarve, what happened was a concentration of responses in the preparation of medicines in one of the units. This is the efficiency that the managers of our board of directors, daily, are bet on achieving and that we support. We can't leave them to support them when they make these choices. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we were also asked whether the Government would follow the autonomy steps of the Autonomous Region of Madeira regarding the choices made about the profession of nurse. Regional autonomy has its own space, our choices were those that were made regarding the maintenance of a specialty within the nursing career, the consecration of a category of nurse manager and, above all, the appreciation of what was the time of performance, assigning it a point and a half to the nursing workers in terms of contract of work in public functions until 2014. We can't, however, Mrs and Mrs. Members, no longer considering that the profession of nurse had a remunerative valuation that happened in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the result of the approval of the new pay table in 2010, and that this has an impact that the law very explicitly frames and that has to be raised to the extent that it has a reading equivalent to a use of accumulated points. For individual employment contracts, a career is now guaranteed which has the same rules as those already existed for the Members. Nurses in employment contract in public functions. It was precisely because we recognized this importance and this principle that we laid down in the allocation of 35 hours of work to the Members. Nurses in individual employment contracts and we will continue to pursue the approach between these two schemes, in this profession as in other professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this long way to improve the National Health Service is not exhausted within the time limit of the legislature, and that is why you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not give up on the path to the future. What they say we promise is only the future we divide and for which we do not give up working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u170	We are thus finishing the first part of this debate. We are now entering the period of intervention and the first is the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, through Mr Luís Graça. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u171	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, which has not yet been heard, and Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, could have made a script on the difficulties of public health services, but also on the role of overcoming professionals and teams. They could have made a road map of the constraints, but also of the improvements that have been made by this government. However, they preferred to make the script not of the Real Country but of the Devil's country. The country of the Devil by which the right continues, as we have seen today, to sigh. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS protests.]] It results from this very bad-looking scheduling, no alternative proposal, no positive solution. Mr Assunção Cristas was the Leiria attempting to politicize the resignation of the President of the Board of Directors, who stressed that this was a resignation for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u172	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u173	They could have verified the impact of the 11 million euros that this government has already invested in Leiria hospital since 2015. You could have visited the new pneumology service at Leiria Hospital,... [[Listen, listen! Very well remembered! Doesn't that matter?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u174	...the new day hospital of psychiatry or the renewal of pharmaceutical services. They could have even highlighted the new reference centers for hepatobiliary and colorectal cancer. [[Does that matter anything?! How far is it?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u175	They could have visited the global remodeling of the Pombal hospital and the Alcobaça hospital. Power, they could, but they preferred to deconstruct reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u177	Power, they could, but it wasn't the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u178	Mrs Assunção Cristas went to the Amadora-Sintra hospital and the Central Lisbon Hospital Center to discuss the lack of human resources. Mrs. Deputy, it must be a lack of memory. You were part of a government that reduced the number of SNS workers to 2850 professionals! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u179	How can they now come to speak in lack of human resources when the government hired more 9000 professionals for the National Health Service, when, of these 9000 professionals, 1850 are medical specialists, 4000 are nurses and 540 are diagnostic and therapeutic technicians? Oh, my God! Today, in the National Health Service, we have the largest number of professionals always: 128,445 professionals! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In Setúbal, the parliamentary leader of the CDS was to claim the work of the General Emergency Service, which this government has already reconfigured and provided funding, which the PSD and CDS government have forgotten to do — a small detail! [[Forget it, forget it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u180	Now, today, we are talking about a four-storey building, in order to allow a reorganization of the spaces of the Hospital de S. Bernardo and the hospital do Outão, concentrating in the same territory the entire hospital center, with efficiency gains and accessibility to users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u181	Is that for when? When? [[Listen, listen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u182	They could have visited the investment of EUR 2 million in the remodelling of the computer park, not for administrative improvement but for clinical improvement and access to patients, but they did not. Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, Mrs. Members of the CDS, the National Health Service is not yet the one we want it to be, but it is also not the one you liked it to be and that you tried to decrease in your script, partial, negative and defeatist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you will allow me, the old men of the Restello have never contributed to the resolution of any problem or embarrassment. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u183	The old men of the Restelo have never been able to demonstrate any ability to innovate and improve. The old men of the Restelo have never been able to mobilize the Portuguese and the Country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u184	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We already mistrusted that what the CDS-PP called an interpellation would not pass from a stage — we had warned about it. A fragile staging, it is true, continued to weaken and confirmed that it was not going through that staging. Within the theatrical genre, we were able to identify the type of staging well: a farce, a complete farce was what was brought here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u186	Theatre? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u187	You better not talk at the theater!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u188	Farsa because she speaks of the National Health Service who never wanted it, who, in 1979, voted against the National Health Service and proposed an alternative, is true! There was an alternative CDS-PP bill that proposed private medicine as a rule. Farsa, Farsa of the CDS-PP and of those who go to the trailer, called PSD, who in 1990 approved the Basics Law that forced, and obliged, the National Health Service to abdicate from professionals, to abdicate from beds, to abdicate from budget, all to fatten the health business. Farsa from the CDS-PP and who goes to the trailer, called PSD, who were in the government who drew more than EUR 1000 million from the budget of the National Health Service. Farsa of whom he had a Deputy Prime Minister — irrevocable but not later — who produced a state reform script saying: ‘Agreements with the private and social sector, in particular by evaluating new formats of looks, in particular in the sale of some units of the current hospital park. » It was about the delivery of hospitals to the private sector. The State reform script continued: 'Reduction of barriers to the entry of new operators of complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means, in particular through the disburocratisation of licensing and the liberalization of access to new conventions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, here is the script of the reform of the State of the CDS-PP, which today, in a farce, defends—well, says it comes to defend—the National Health Service. Farsa of those who have voted against the strengthening of the budget of the National Health Service, of those who, although today come to talk about precariousness, voted against the PREVPAP (Special Regularization Program of Precarious Links in Public Administration ), i.e. against the regularization of these same deficiencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u189	Have you approved the Budgets and now you come up with this conversation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u190	Farsa from those who now, with the approximation of the elections, try to instrumentalize the struggle of workers and what their demands are but who so often said here that these workers were customers. Do You Remember? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Do you remember when we were talking about improving working conditions here and saying that they were customers, as they also said, that the precariouss that would be integrated were the boys to whom we wanted to give employment? Shame, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the farce they brought here! But as it seems that the word of the moment has become the consensus, I would like to end this debate by the Left Block, launching challenges of consensus to the CDS-PP and the PSD, too, but above all to the CDS-PP that brought the interpellation / farse to which we are here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they want consensus on a new law of bases, do not fail to agree; if they want the National Health Service, follow the proposed law of bases of the Left Block. If you want consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you really want to say something that makes sense to professionals, follow the parliamentary assessment of the Left Block for a career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians that is effectively worthy. If you want consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, come with the Left Block to make this Parliamentary assessment. If you want consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they want more participatory citizens, follow the Left Block proposal for greater participation by citizens in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u191	Mr President, before the fourth consensus, I would like to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. If you want consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Members, follow the Left Block when it also presents here a parliamentary assessment of the nursing career, if the decree-law which was adopted today in the Council of Ministers does not guarantee the counting of every year and of all the points corresponding to the years of service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u193	Mr António Sales, from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u194	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As the date of elections approaches, the demagogic and elective frenzy of the CDS grows every day. The political acts with which it seeks to keep itself in the crest of the media wave are multiplied, always saying badly, always denying. But what is true is that, as for alternatives presented by the CDS, zero; as for solutions, zero; proposals, zero! It is sterile its demagogy and its electoralism is disproposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS is merely displaying its tendency to explore newspaper titles and, with undoubtedness, distance itself from its past responsibilities. Today's plea doesn't fool: it's more than the same, nothing brings it back! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, just over a month ago, the CDS presented a motion of censure to the Government in which health was invoked as the main mobile phone. The motion of censure, for no apparent reason, was justly rejected, having forgotten the fate it deserved. The recent and interesting concern of the CDS with the National Health Service led its leader, two weeks ago, in a supposed symmetrical mimetism of the Prime Minister, to make a journey by the National Health Service to show only its problems and weaknesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u195	The electorate Dr. Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u196	He even said that the SNS would actually be dying because of this government. But the CDS leader delayed four years, because at that time, yes, he was really dying. And it was not the intervention of this government, we would have even declared death! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Today's questioning is part of these CDS political numbers that, with the usual crocodile tears, today brings the matter up to the parliamentary instance for more moments of alleged opposition glory. The custom, which only reveals bad conscience and political myopia: poor awareness of those who cut human resources, cut funding, closed emergency services, relocated public spending for the private and left the SNS in the penury; political myopia of those who did not see, and continues to see, after 2015, the increase of professionals, the strengthening of funding, the reduction of moderate rates and the strengthening of the centrality and capacity of the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the difference in political action between the previous and current governments, this interpellation of the CDS is justified by a suitable problem of amnesia. The CDS takes refuge in health because it has lost all the other political struggles it considered essential: it has lost the fight against unemployment, because we have strongly reduced unemployment; it has lost the fight against deficit, because we lead public finances to balance; it has lost the fight against the economy, because we have improved economic growth. in one word, he lost the fight, because Portugal is better.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u197	All right! [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u198	For these reasons, the CDS feels that it only remains to seek refuge for its political action in which it runs less well, exploring the fragility or short-term deficiencies, in the resolution phase, of organizations as complex as hospitals and health centers. This is the only reason why this request by the CDS reveals only the disability and weakness of the CDS's political position. That's why, sirs. Members, the real concern of the CDS is not the good performance of the National Health Service, its cause is another. The CDS is a pseudo-converted to the National Health Service, with a hidden agenda of political hypocrisy, whose aim is to end the National Health Service. Mrs. Members of the CDS must tell the Portuguese what your true political agenda is and what they come and what they propose. Make it clear what they stand for: they have surrendered to Article 64. the Constitution or remain faithful to your usual position, in favour of health insurance and against the SNS?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u200	Do they defend a competitive system between public, private and social or admit the centrality and preponderance of the National Health Service? And also tell the workers to adhere to the 35-hour work regime or continue to defend the 40-weekly hours they imposed in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u202	And, as far as the demands of the professionals are concerned, are they available for all or just for some? Say which one! A responsible party that is said with aspirations to lead the government of Portugal, is expected to be much more than infringing demagogy and unbridled electoralism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What about the demands of professionals? Are they available for all or just for some? Say which one! A responsible party, which is said with aspirations to lead the Government of Portugal, is expected much more than infringing demagogy and unbridled electoralism. Mr. Minister, on our part, we are proud of the National Health Service. It is for him that we work in this legislature, it is for him that we will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u203	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u204	Mr President, Mr António Sales, after this moment, with an elective and commissary speech, a true commission that Mr Here has made,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... by completely devaluing the health problems of Portuguese people, we have little to add, because in fact this is the state in which PS is, today: composts, elective speeches, devaluation of problems, "to push with the belly" and little or nothing to talk about the reality and impact that the measures taken by this government have had on the health of Portuguese people. And no, the CDS didn't come here to do a farce or theater, it came up with serious and serious problems — look, you know, even those who care most about the Portuguese! We haven't even come here to make cutters, either. Cutters aren't on this side, it's more for that one, for the left benches, there, in front of me. Now, what I wanted to say is that it is not credible to come here today to make this opening speech, to say once again, as I said in my opening speech, that "now it is" and to announce new investments, because, in fact, this is not understood. Are you going to do in six months what you haven't done in more than three years? Oh, my God! We're late, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u205	Better late than never!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u206	They arrive too late, and the Portuguese are feeling this lack of priority. It's about advertising this legislation was fertile. You're going to say that to Viseu's hospital, with the promise of the oncological center, the promise that it was now! You'll say that there for Viseu, those populations who were expecting an oncological center, that the former Secretary of State was inaugurated and that—it goes away! — now it won't be anymore. So, what credibility do you have to come here today to make such a speech? Oh, my God! I ask you, Mr President, what is the credibility they have, when they come here to speak of priority for health and chronic patients, when, in the continuing care network, they have the waiting lists to increase, the debts to be increased and there is a failure to comply with the protocols with social sector entities, with which they have an accumulated debt that suffocates their sustainability and harms patients' care? Oh, my God! What is your credibility? Oh, my God! The CDS will continue to do what it has always done, and there is no lost battles here, because we are on the side of truth and reality. The same can no longer be said by the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u207	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u208	After today's debate - and we are walking towards the closure - we can only say this: the government has failed and the PS will not go far. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u209	To reply, Mr Antonio Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u210	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I cannot thank you for the question you have asked me because I do not know what the question you have asked me. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u211	Viseu Oncological Center! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u212	But, Madam Member, if the question is about our credibility, I tell you that it is the credibility that the Portuguese people want to give us in the next elections. That is our credibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's the credibility we've been building throughout these four years of the legislature, Mrs. Member! That's the credibility! But there have probably been things that you did not like to hear, for example, the fact that I mentioned in my speech, that you are giving priority to health insurance. You didn't comment on that, Mrs. Deputy! It is because the honourable Member has even forgotten that in the programme lines of her Government's programme, specifically in paragraph 6, this is said: « The People's Party argues that universal free access to health should be replaced by a health insurance-based system ». Have you forgotten about this, Your Honor? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]] You just remembered talking about the investment. But on the investment, the Minister has already answered you; on the waiting lists, the Minister has already answered you; on the increase of 600 000 surgeries, the Minister has already answered you; on the increase of 30 000 consultations, the Minister has already answered you. Mr. Member, what do you want to ask? Oh, my God! He didn't ask anything! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : At the end of this debate it is clear that PSD and CDS came. With the panagio that they want to defend the National Health Service, hypocritically, they came here to defend the ideology of the health business. They will come here to deny the National Health Service, with the sole purpose of favoring the ideology of the business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u215	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u216	And, at the end of this debate, it is clear that the only guarantee that Portuguese people — all, rich or poor — have access to health, quality and safety health is in the National Health Service. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u217	The CFP has brought here, to this debate, very concrete proposals, also concrete problems and solutions to solve such issues as investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u218	That's in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u219	It is clearly necessary to invest in the National Health Service. It is necessary to continue to value professionals and to hire professionals who need them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u220	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u221	I conclude, Mr. President. It is necessary to remove the obstacles that still persist in access. But these answers, the Portuguese and the workers of the National Health Service will not find in the PSD or CDS, they will find, yes, in the ally they have here, which is the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u222	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party comes to the most this debate on health with the tranquility of, for 25 of the 40 years of the National Health Service, we have implemented the National Health Service. And the rest, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's conversation! What is also clear in this debate is that the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party are united.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u224	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u225	In fact, if they were true in their intentions, they would go to the elections together. And we'd see, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer you're going to have! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u226	But there is a question about which he had doubts: why is it that the PCP, or the Left Block, or the PS, is always remembering the year 1979? Today I understand, once and for all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u227	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u228	I'm done now, Mr. President. The reason these parties only speak of 1979 is not to speak of 2019, the year in which Portuguese people do not have access to health, they do not have access to health they deserve! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u229	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u230	Mr President, Mr António Sales said that Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto asked you no questions. Now, you have nine seconds to answer a question I'm going to ask you, and slowly. As for the first oncological center stone in Viseu hospital, the Minister, yesterday in Commission, said zero! As for the Sixal hospital, we are already going to the second stone, so I ask you a very clear question: will there be a third? For your allies, who are shouting so much today, can you launch another fourth? Answer : Is it to do or not to do? Answer, just between us, for the country to realize who's talking seriously and who's lying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u231	For one last intervention, Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u232	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, in 9 seconds, I will try to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u233	'Yes' or 'no' answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u234	Mr. Deputie, assuredly, it will not be a stone like the stone at the Hospital de São João, whose pediatric wing was inaugurated twice, without cabimentation for the project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the answer, the Minister replied yesterday, at the Commission's office, that she did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u235	Disclaimer to the Minister! It's another one to be fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u236	It's okay, get in the prime!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the closing stage of the debate. In order to intervene on behalf of the Inter-Pelent Party, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. Members of the Government : As has become clear throughout this debate, if there is something that is not lacking in health in Portugal are numbers. Figures, these, which, if used in a partial manner, but repeatedly stated in a convincing tone, almost illustrious reality. For example, Prime Minister reaffirms that more 9000 professionals have been hired for the National Health Service and that this is not an abstraction. And it won't. But the shift from 40 hours to 35 hours alone justified more significant increases to the same assistance capacity, and the financial effort to compensate for the new time limited the vacancies to the specialized professionals, who are now missing. To promote a partial view of the facts, to shift blame to the previous four years of government, to point the finger to the private sector to explain the public interferences are all deresponsible formulas that this government and the parties that supported it have become habitual. by doing so, they may even achieve biased gains, but harm the health care of Portuguese. There are serious problems to be solved. The financial indicators of the SNS, at the Transparency Portal or at the UTAO, warn us of this: the implementation of public investment was 58 % in 2017, and 44 % in 2018, in a negative deviation of EUR 170 million, in January 2019, the debt overdue from health was EUR 1000 million, more than in December 2015 ; the late payments in EPE hospitals were in November 2018, the highest value since 2011, and in December, a reduction was made, but by February 2019, they had already increased to EUR 37 million ; in 2018, the SNS had almost twice as much of the damage in 2015, with the result being negative in EUR 3, 6 billion, which corresponds to seven times the budget of Culture. What these numbers show is that the SNS, the nuclear component of the right to health protection in Portugal, is more fragile and at risk and this results from the decisions of this government, validated by BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN, in the approval of the four State budgets. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this, what to do? Accusing the previous government or agitating solutions? Take public opinion with the discussion of the basic law or organize responses? Deny the private sector or defend the SNS? For the CDS, the answer is clear: we must take measures that simultaneously strengthen the SNS and enable a health system, so that together they better respond to the needs of Portuguese. And, speaking in amnesia, the CDS has put forward proposals, yes, Mr António Sales! We presented a bill, proposing a new model of health financing, based on the results achieved and the added value for the user;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u240	... replace a process model, production, by a new logic for maximizing health gains, evaluated and awarded by clinical results and efficiency in management. But this path was rejected in this House. We have also introduced a bill to strengthen the autonomy of hospital institutions integrated into the SNS, which, having been approved in general, is now under discussion in the field of specialty. More recently, through a draft resolution, we urged the Government to develop the Integrated Responsibility Centres ( ICR ), a bet on capacity at intermediate levels and designated specialities and that fit into the models we defend. The CDS has been very consistent in defending these new financing and autonomy models — alongside the provision of accounts — as tools for the agility and efficiency of SNS responses. But it is the government that has the executive power and that unfortunately takes a long time to implement its own announcements. In September 2018, the government announced that some hospitals would integrate a pilot project with greater autonomy. We are in March, more than six months later, and what we heard from the President of the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association was, and I quote: "I do not note that some autonomy has been given to hospitals. I believe that some news came out last week(...), but what was given was autonomy to the Minister to replace professionals who are absent in the long term». Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to strengthen the SNS with instruments that break the centralisation of finance, which allow a flexible organization of services, the modernization investment and the hiring of professionals, and their training, based on merit and incentives, rather than inhibitions. But it is also essential to safeguard a system that goes beyond the National Health Service, because it is demagogic and financially unviable any other scenario. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u241	In 2017, the total health expenditure was EUR 17 billion and the state expenditure was EUR 10 billion. It would be necessary to charge more EUR 7 billion in taxes so that the SNS would be a single answer. It is not by chance that hybrid systems exist in all European countries. The CDS has been defending the National Health Service since 1979, because we do not abdicate the freedom of choice of citizens. That is why we are proposing the extension of ADSE, which is based on the guarantee of its sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u243	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with all clarity, we are convinced that the defence of health in Portugal passes through an SNS strengthened by autonomy and efficient funding, by a health system that integrates public but also private and social, guaranteeing freedom of choice, regardless of portfolio, age or postal code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u245	... and by effective regulation and transparent scrutiny of results. This is the alternative to the policy that has brought us here, a policy of advertisements and remedies, enemies and conspiracy. What we propose is a policy of results for people, of consensus in society and investment in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u247	This is the alternative the CDS represents. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u248	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I can only start by stressing the obvious, I repeat, the obvious 'inaccuracy' of this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After four years of destruction of the National Health Service and other public services, in particular with regard to health, the reduction of EUR 2000 million in annual public expenditure,... [[PSD protests.]] ... this government has recovered and protected the National Health Service. We have brought more funding for public health services: plus EUR 1, EUR 3 billion. We brought more human resources to the National Health Service: more 9000 health professionals. We conducted more consultations on primary health care and hospital care. We performed more surgeries. At the highest demand we respond with more offer. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny the problems, we do not deny the difficulties, but we work every day to solve them, without pointing to blame, before, seeking solutions. The healthy feeding programme, the promotion of physical exercise, USF 20 to be created this year, EUR 90 million for strengthening investment, now approved in the Council of Ministers, strengthening of contracts, strengthening of human resources — these are some of the many concrete initiatives to ensure and strengthen the National Health Service, where the best health care is available. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the line that separates us from the CDS is to be with the Portuguese, the citizens and the patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have no other agenda! Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said that it is demagogic and financially inviable to defend another option other than that of integration of the public, private and social sectors. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clear on what we saw. We have come to the defense of good public services, strong public services and that they defend Portuguese in particular such as the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-28.u250	This debate and our agenda for today are thus closed, so I am going to announce the agenda for tomorrow's sitting. The plenary will meet at 10 a.m., as is normal on Fridays, with a Socialist Party marking on the theme « social passes». The agenda follows two legislative initiatives, but does not allow time for debate: motions for resolution No 80 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statutes of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and 85 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres, signed in Beijing on 9 October 2016. At the end of the debate there will be regular votes. I also draw attention to the fact that tomorrow there will be elections of one member to the Constitutional Court and of three members to the Integrated Criminal Information System Supervisory Board. To all and to all, I wish to continue a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 26 minutes.]]
