ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021 - 2027. the second point is the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. In the meantime, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do us some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau with a number of diplomas. First of all, I inform you of the entry into the Bureau of the Proposal for a Law No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposition of Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369 of 13 December 2018 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs by introducing the twenty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, which falls to 1. the Commission. The following bills were also placed on the table: n. 134 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — For the purpose of banning the manufacture, possession, use and sale of articles which only serve for the capture of wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 135 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Radio and Television of Portugal ( third amendment to Law No 8 / 2007 of 14 February 2007, which provides for the restructuring of the concessionaire of the public radio and television service, as well as the new statutes of the Radio and Television of Portugal ), which goes down to 12. the Commission ; point 136 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Eliminates the pension sustainability factor, restores the legal age of reform in the 65 years and establishes the custom reduction of the retirement age for workers with 40 or more years of discounts ( 10th amendment to Decree-Law No 187/2007 of 10 May ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 137 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and free issue of the distraction and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, and also prohibits credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted for consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 ), which is lower than 5. the Commission ; point 138 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and free issue of the asset and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ), which is lower than 5. the Commission ; point 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January 2010 ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; point 140 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the universal basic account access system, which goes down to 5. the Commission ; point 141 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Work relations within the infrastructures of Portugal, SA ( amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2015 of 29 May ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; No 142 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services, which is lower than 6. the Commission ; and No 143 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( fourth amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ), which falls to 1. the Commission. Draft Rules of Procedure No 5 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 1. the Commission. The following draft resolutions have also been submitted to the Bureau: No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government cease to comply with the Habitats Directive and designate the Special Conservation Areas, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 140 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 141 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government integrate into the overall plans for the management of the lobo-birico the mandatory areas of wild prey refuge in each population nucleus, which falls to 11. the Commission ; No 142 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By requalifying the entire line of Alentejo, the electrification of the railway portion Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira and the reactivation of the Aljustrel railway branch, which drops to 6. the Commission ; No 143 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the development of guidelines for the banking commissions policy of the General Deposit Box, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; points 144 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creation of the student-voluntary status, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 145 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a scheme of incentives for immigrants and emigrants who wish to attend public higher education institutions in Portugal, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 146 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the cost/benefit requirement for public-private partnerships, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; point 147 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the development of the geriatrics, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; and No 148 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the timetable for the specific institution of the administrative regions during the year 2021, which falls to 13. the Commission in connection with 1. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your effort under difficult conditions, because there is a lot of noise in the room. I hope that next time the file is announced, there is a little more respect for those who are acting as Secretary of the Bureau. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter the first item on the agenda, which I have already indicated, consists of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021 - 2027. To introduce the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are entering a critical and decisive stage of negotiations on the Community funds after-2020. This is a central theme for the whole country and that conditions our model of economic growth, social cohesion and territorial development. The next Financial Framework extracts this Legislation and therefore we have sought, in this matter, to reach a broad internal consensus, whether on the strategic vision of Portugal 2030 or on what the National Investment Programme should be for the next decade. That is why, in view of the essentiality of what is at stake, it is vital for the Government to present itself, in all European negotiating bodies, supported not only in a frank and clarifying parliamentary debate, but, hopefully, in a common front which congregates all the parties represented in this House of the Republic on behalf of the national interest. For well-known reasons, this new Plurianual Financial Framework introduces itself in an increased context of demand, while at the same time needing to accommodate the impact of Brexit, to meet the priorities in the area of defence, security and migration and to invest in the transition to a more sustainable economy in the environmental, social and technological levels. Now we cannot demand more of Europe by giving Europe less. We cannot go beyond the tasks of the European Union without increasing our contributions and their own resources. Otherwise, the European Union will continue to promise too much and to do less, and this will very dangerously affect citizens' confidence in national and European institutions, which only helps to feed populism. Portugal is in these negotiations with a constructive stance and committed to finding solutions. We always insist on the need to reach an early agreement, which is essential in order to allow a good transition between Community frameworks, which does not compromise Europe's economic growth. A timely approval of the new framework is therefore our first priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we know, the first proposal put forward by the Commission was insufficient. However, the recent proposal of the Finnish Presidency, which will be under discussion at the next European Council, is even less than the necessary dimension so that the next multiannual financial framework can fulfil the commitments that the European Union has made with its citizens, does not take into account both the Commission's and the European Parliament's proposals, nor the position of the majority of the Member States, inevitably leading to a confrontation between the majority in the Council and an institutional conflict with the European Parliament and the European Commission itself. Specifically, and with regard to Portugal, the proposal of the Finnish Presidency would involve a 10% cut in cohesion funds for our country, less than three percentage points than the initial proposal of the European Commission. Another particularly serious aspect is the change in co-financing rates, increasing the pressure on government budget charges. For all these reasons, this proposal deserves our clear rejection and, I am sure, the firm rejection of this whole House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is worth recalling what is at stake when we speak in the Cohesion Fund : we speak of 14 000 companies which are being supported in their modernisation within the framework of Portugal 2020, of the thousands of workers who are in training actions in companies, of more than 400 child support equipment, of 118 000 fellow students in higher education, of the increase of thousands of tons per year in waste recycling or in the treatment of waste water. As a compromise proposal, we argue that the next multiannual framework should, at least, maintain the proportion of the effort that each Member State has already agreed to make seven years ago, without the United Kingdom, i.e. a contribution of 1, 16 % of the European Union's gross national income to 27. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also advocate that new European policies and initiatives require additional means and therefore support the creation of new Union own resources. We need a budget corresponding to European ambitions and the need to invest more in research and development, in combating climate change, in digital transition, in cooperation with other continents, in particular with the African continent, and in security. But in any case cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy cannot be the adjustment variables, because they are the policies that most contribute to bringing Europe closer to its citizens from day to day, so if we certainly need to respond to new challenges, it is important not to sacrifice what we have already tried to do right. Moreover, because these policies also help to meet the challenges of the future, we must therefore reject the simplistic and reducing confrontation between new and old policies. Don't! Both cohesion policy and agricultural policy are fundamental to facing the challenges of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Agriculture policy and, in particular, its second pillar on rural development has a key role to play in combating climate change and ensuring biodiversity. Cohesion, in turn, is essential in the approach to digital transition, through investment in qualifications and the modernisation of companies. The correct path is therefore to intensify these trends. Thus, just as the common agricultural policy has evolved in the sense of greater agri-environmental concern, cohesion policy must also evolve for the valorisation of its main recipients: people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, it is essential to associate cohesion policy with the social pillar, making it a central instrument of responding to demographic, labour and inclusion challenges faced by European societies. In this way, the objective of greater economic competitiveness must be matched with the imperative of greater social cohesion in order to promote real convergence with the European Union. It is this policy of the three ccs — competitiveness, cohesion and convergence — that should guide the action of the European institutions and to which it is important to ensure the necessary financial means. This is an essential challenge that we have ahead of us now! For this difficult negotiation, it is essential that we be able to count on everyone, on behalf of the interests of Portugal and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u5	Let's get into the debate. The first parliamentary group to intervene is that of the PS. Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, allow me to congratulate you on the intelligent and consistent manner in which you have defended the policy of convergence and cohesion with the bodies of the European Union. To do so is, first of all, to defend the European project and in it, also, the interests of Portugal and the countries of convergence. Moreover, the voice of Portugal, through Mr. Prime Minister, is today the voice of many of these countries, of countries which, like Portugal, have joined the European Union project, because they were able to find there an ideal of democracy, peace, freedom, prosperity and justice. This is a very old ideal, coming from men like Victor Hugo, Coudenhove, Jean Monnet, Adenauer, Alcide De Gasperi, Robert Schuman and, later, in the 1980s, from what is a reference to us, Jacques Delors, who were the continuation of this development project in economic and social harmony. Mr. Prime Minister, it was and it is this ideal that he kept and that keeps the European project alive. So we have a duty to fight for him. when we defend a solid and robust cohesion policy, we are defending this ideal and the project of the founding fathers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what has happened in our country by the hand of PS and V.A. and that we want it to happen again in the next cycle of European funds. Mr Prime Minister, allow me therefore to convey to you the unconditional support of this parliamentary bench to its positions with the European Union. We do so not because of national selfishness, but because we know that, from its origin, balanced and harmonious development, in the first phase, and regional development and cohesion, from the 1970s and 1980s, have been on the other side of the European common market. As you have stated, economic growth is virtuous when accompanied by social welfare, when there is balance between wealth created and fair distribution of it. That is what honours the history of cohesion policy and favours a future worthy of regional policy. We are well aware that today, you, former Prime Minister, is one of those who represent this European founding spirit. Mr Prime Minister, to propose and argue in Brussels that the dimension of the Multiannual Financial Framework to 2021 - 2027 cannot be less than the value of the current Community framework being implemented is an attitude that honours the history of European regional policy and cohesion policy. Taking this position means honoring the entire history of the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we defend your position because it integrates into an important founding principle of the European project, that of equity and that of social justice, fundamental ideas that the PS has always been a paladin. But we do so, too, because we know that there are many advantages to the European Union in the policy of cohesion and regional development. There are many economic arguments, which have already been scientifically demonstrated today: it promotes the increase in income and production; it leads to lower inflation and stimulates faster growth; it enables the social problems that are living in large cities; it contributes to deepening trade and economic integration; it contributes to market expansion; it promotes the effects of dispersion; it helps to solve some of the issues related to public finances, which advise not to concentrate resources only in countries with depressed regions; it has advantages of coordination, which promotes greater effectiveness in the allocation of resources; and it is the best way to mitigate imbalances resulting from integration and enlargement. Mr Prime Minister, from the Economic Community of Coal and Steel through the Treaty of Rome to the creation of the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF ), cohesion has been a constant in the European project. With the accession of Portugal, Greece and Spain, the scope of the ERDF has been extended to all regions with development delays. And with the Single European Act and the Delors package more than doubled the support for cohesion, which enabled the European Union Treaty to give priority to this policy in 1992, being assumed as the other side to meet the convergence criteria for the single currency. Subsequently, both in the Edinburgh European Councils and in the Treaty of Amsterdam, cohesion policy will gain great centrality. We are proud at the Lisbon Summit, which has adopted a new strategic vision for competitiveness and cohesion and this, in addition to the economic and social dimension, has also taken a look at the territories. The strategy 2014 / 2020 that we are implementing not only maintained this vision, as it associated economic growth with inclusion, social justice and environmental sustainability. Mr Prime Minister, the Commission proposal which reduced support for Portugal was already incomprehensible. However, the Finnish proposal is even more drastic and proposes a reduction of 10 % in this support. Mr Prime Minister is a convinced Europeanist; we are convinced Europeanists in Portugal. We have participated in several crucial moments in the history of the European project and have come to gain prestige and influence in its most important instances. European funding is vital today, as it has already stated, is one of the structural variables in the conditions of development of the country and in the relaunch of public investment for the next decade and to meet the challenges of the legislature. Mr Prime Minister, on the basis of the Finnish Presidency's proposal, what objectives are the Government's objectives, what allies can we count on, and what results do we expect for Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u7	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u8	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, cohesion policy today is part of the identity of the European Union itself, not only of the values of solidarity that are in its genesis but also as a central element of the vision with which Jacques Delors has undertaken the construction of the single market. The single market, which greatly increased the competitiveness between economies with a very diverse level of development, required a very strong counterpart through a solid cohesion policy anchored in the regional dimension of Europe. Mr President, we have been privileged to be colleagues for many years in the Committee of the Regions and to be able to witness how, from the north of Finland to the south of Greece, cohesion policy has played an essential role not only in strengthening economic and social cohesion, not only in examining regional asymmetries, but also in strengthening the European spirit. It is not just money, it is something that has to do with our commitment to the European Union. There is no policy in the European Union that comes closer to each citizen. There is no town, a village, a village in Europe where the European Union has not arrived through cohesion policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Cohesion policy is therefore a fundamental foundation for building the future of the European project. We know that everything demands to go along with the evolution of the times. And cohesion policy, of course, must also go along with the times. Today, we can not only look at its territorial dimension, we need to look more and more at its dimension in relation to people. Its priority must also be to combat poverty, regardless of where the highest levels of poverty are. Today, more and more must be invested in human resources qualification and in the modernisation of business fabric, because only by improving the competitiveness of companies will we strengthen our internal cohesion. That is why it has been so important in the efforts to modernise our country, for example. Much of the economic success we have had is due to the fact that private investment has been solidly supported in the funds of Portugal 2020. Now, this is a path that we cannot interrupt — neither we nor the whole of Europe — it is a path that must have continuity and, therefore, we must be struck by this principle, and we must do so on behalf of Portugal, but also on behalf of the whole European project. So, with regard to the Finnish Presidency's proposal, there is only one answer: to reject the Finnish Presidency's proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that it is a proposal that seeks a greater balance between cohesion policy, agricultural policy and new policies. It is true that in the specific case of Portugal, as regards agricultural policy, there is even a slight improvement, however, that improvement does not exist in the Fisheries Fund, that improvement does not exist in relation to POSEI, the programme of specific options to deal with remoteness and insularity, and the financing of the programmes for our two outermost regions of the Azores and Madeira, and makes our situation worse within the Cohesion Fund. Being fair, it is not a decision of the Presidency, it is the result of a seemingly technical decision, but highly penalizing Portugal, which has to do with the fact that the statistical reference has been updated, not using 2015 data to use the 2017 data, which now penalises us in about 800 million euros, the result of economic progress and in particular the reduction of unemployment achieved between 2015 and 2017. Now, if there is something that is not acceptable for a country that has suffered, as Portugal has suffered, the economic adjustment to respond to the sovereign debt crisis, which has suffered from the international economic crisis of 2008, is now penalized by the success of our economic policy, our growth and the reduction of unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must therefore maintain a firm and constructive position: firm, rejecting everything contrary to national interest; constructive, in order to seek closer partners and also institutions. And the position we have taken must be that it seeks to bring the Commission's initial proposal closer to the European Parliament's proposal, with a view to a fair balance in the European Council, which guarantees something essential : that no Member State will have to make an effort proportionately greater than it has accepted seven years ago, discounting the presence of the United Kingdom, and allowing at the same time the growth in gross national income to cover the new political priorities, but not affecting the cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy, particularly the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. It is very important that, as is happening in the European Parliament, it is possible to build a large national front in this area. I myself, two weeks ago, had the opportunity to meet in the European Parliament not only with the President and with the leaders of the main parliamentary groups but also with the two Portuguese Euro MPs, José Manuel Fernandes and Margarida Marques, who in the PPE and the Socialist Group have responsibilities in drawing up the next framework, and I was very aware of the convergence of views among all and the clear position of the European Parliament not to accept the Finnish proposal. It is also very important that when we meet in the Council next Thursday no one has any doubt about the position of the Portuguese Parliament and that the Portuguese Government, when saying 'no' to this proposal, is saying 'no' with the clear and unequivocal support of the majority of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u9	You now have the floor to put your questions, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the next debate we will address in more detail the question of the multiannual financial framework, which is effectively relevant, as I said, for the competitiveness and convergence of European economies. But I would now like to ask you a very specific question about competitiveness and convergence, which has to do with the proposal made by the Eurogroup on the so-called 'BIC'( Budget Instrument for Convergence and Competitiveness ), which is the budgetary instrument precisely for the competitiveness and convergence of the euro area. This proposal, if applied, runs counter to what is its own logic. And why? Because a country like, for example, Germany ends up receiving more than one country like Portugal. Therefore, the PSD cannot of course agree with the proposal of the Eurogroup. However, the happy or unfortunate coincidence of the Eurogroup is given to be presided over by the Minister of Finance of Portugal, i.e. by his Minister of Finance, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u11	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u12	The concrete question I ask you is whether Mr. Prime Minister agrees with the proposal of the Eurogroup for the so-called BICC. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u13	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u14	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I thank you for your question. Portugal disagrees with the proposal of the Eurogroup on BICC. BICC is an essential instrument for doing what cohesion policy has done within the framework of the single market and must therefore be an instrument for convergence. I also have several written texts, of successive speeches I have made in recent years, defending the creation of this financial instrument, in a logic to finance the euro area countries that need to converge and enable us to respond to the annual recommendations of the European Semester. The result of the Eurogroup proposal is quite different. As it was confused between the instrument originally proposed by the Commission, within the multiannual financial framework, and a French proposal for an intergovernmental agreement, creating a principle of fair return or reversal of each amount, this led to the absurd result of the first BICC beneficiary country being precisely the most developed economy of the European Union, which is Germany. Next comes France, then Italy, then Spain, then the Netherlands and then we were able to come there thanks to the corrective mechanism that, despite everything, exists which is the GDP per capita invested. It is an instrument that does not fulfil its role and, if we look at the Council's conclusions on this point, which we accept, we will see that we have received the Eurogroup's proposal and will now be working in the Council's debate on the multiannual financial framework, and it must obviously take a very large turn in order to be useful. If it's not useful, it's better that it doesn't exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u15	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor to ask his questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we then agree, as we also agree, as it is evident, in the rejection of the Finnish proposal. I do not know whether we will agree on what I am going to confront now, which is even more important for convergence and competitiveness than the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, which is education. The education system is the most important thing a country has, and, in this case, Portugal has, for its future competitiveness. As you know, since 2000 the OECD, through the PISA ( Programme for International Student Assessment), has measured, every three years, the literature of young people coming out of basic education in reading, science and mathematics. From 2000 to 2015, Portugal has always improved in the three indicators. However, last week, or a week and a half ago, 2018 data came out and, compared to 2015 data, just the year the PS began to govern, for the first time they degraded, i.e., the best we could was stagnating in mathematics, but we got worse in science and reading. The numbers I have indicate that in mathematics we kept at 492, that is, we stopped improving, but then in reading we went down from 498 to 492 and in science it was even worse because we went down from 501 to 492. The Minister of Education, who has been asked to do so - I think he has even given a press conference on the subject - he has devalued degradation, considered it relative and still said that the responsibility for degradation was not his, it was Minister Nuno Crato and the economic crisis that Portugal went through during the troika, that is to say, the Minister of Education considers that his work was not relevant to this degradation. Now, as you have done nothing better, perhaps, I dare say that he considers his work to be purely and simply irrelevant, but I do not consider it irrelevant, I consider it relevant, and it is precisely relevant in degradation. [[PSD applause.]] My concrete question is this: is Mr Prime Minister in agreement with the Minister of Education and, therefore, does he agree that nothing needs to be changed, because everything that is wrong comes from behind and what comes from behind has already happened? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Or are you really concerned that Portugal has seen its indicators degraded for the first time in the last three years, proposing, indeed, to make changes — what, I ask, for three years now, that Portugal will again improve and not remain, as in 2018, with what it has lost for 2015? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u18	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, fortunately, we agree at the starting point: education is really the key to our development. Secondly, I am not going into the debate,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u19	...if I may, you little... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... on the contribution of each Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u20	It doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u21	... moreover, because, as all the scientists in the area of education and all the specialists in the statistical area have already explained, the age cohort that was the subject of evaluation was clearly influenced, in its formation, by the government policies that preceded the government that preceded the current one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] But that's not what's relevant. What is relevant are two other data. What is relevant is, firstly, that Portugal is the only country within the OECD which, continuously since the beginning of the century, has had a systematically positive evolution of the indicators within the framework of the PISA. That is the most relevant data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second relevant data is that it is essential that we continue to do even more and better. So, going to your question, in order to know whether we are satisfied or if we have to do more, my answer is very clear: we have to do more. That is why we must continue to reduce the number of students per class, which is why we must continue to universalize preschool, which is why we must continue to remove economic barriers to educational success, which is why we must continue to strengthen the autonomy of schools, improve curriculum flexibility and improve new pedagogical practices that promote educational success and not simply selectivity through elimination. Yes, we must continue to do more, we must continue to do better! That's why we're here. It's to do more and better! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u22	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u23	Mr Prime Minister, let me point out that in my assessment, petty debate is what the Minister of Education does when he shakes all responsibility for himself and throws everything back there. [[PSD applause.]] That, to me, is absolutely clear. But let me ask you another question, also in the context of the education and results of the 2018 PISA (International Student Assessment Programme), which has to do with the fact that social inequalities have worsened. And what does that mean? We all know that students with less financial capacity, whose families are more disadvantaged, naturally have more difficulty in learning than those whose families are financially and socially more disadvantaged. What is not acceptable is that the data are also degraded in this way, because by degrading data in this way means that the public school is not fulfilling its function, it is not reducing this asymmetry, but in this particular case and in recent times, it is in a certain way exacerbating asymmetry. If this is serious for any party and for any citizen, it should be more serious for a government that is said to be left-wing and that fills its mouth with saying that it fights social inequalities. The results come in exactly the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u25	Today, only does not put the child in private education who clearly has no money. Few are those who, having money, opt for the public in relation to the private. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] To deny reality is certainly not to take a step towards solving the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u26	Exactly! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u27	So I'm saying again, as I said here a few days ago about another matter, that this is not data advertising, so it is! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] People run away from the audience when they have money and when they don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u28	Don't move the country for your dick!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u29	It's the advertising space of the yellow shirts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u30	And what has been the Government's response in this matter? As the Prime Minister has just said, in a way, it has been a low level of demand, with the end of the examinations, the foreseeable end of the reprobations. I must say that, with the fall in the level of demand, we, above all, harm those who do not have the means to counterbalance the lack of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u32	It is that whoever has money can have explanations, can have a number of help, and who has no money, of course, can't have it. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, lowering the level of demand is, above all, harming those who are poorer. Mr. Prime Minister, I have already told you here one day, and today I repeat with all my conviction: if you reprobate is bad, going without knowing is much worse, in terms of the future of the young Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] So, Prime Minister, the concrete question I ask you is this: in view of these objective results, i.e. in view of the numbers for which this international study points, what policy does you have to value public school? And I hope you won't answer me again that it's with more incentive to waste and less rigour in public education in Portugal. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is that, as I said recently — and agreed with me — education is absolutely vital for the future of Portugal. And if we lower the levels of demand, we will compare ourselves to the countries of the third world, we will not compare ourselves to the countries of the first world, where indeed the requirement passes far above that which the government has implemented in Portugal since it took possession, in 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u33	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u34	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I apologize for the comparison, but I felt that between the debate we had 15 days ago and today's debate had the opportunity, at this second time of examination, to find, contrary to what I was insisting on, that no one proposed the end of the evaluation, the end of examinations or this rhetoric of the unrest that has been sustained here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] About what was effectively evaluated in this investigation, I highly recommend that you read an article by Dr. Isabel Flores, published in the Public last December 2nd, before the result is known, where she explains very well who was in evaluation of these results of the PISA.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u36	Finally, and in conclusion, I realize that this private school slogan is better than public school is a very tempting speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u37	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u38	It's for the yellow shirts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u39	... for the dispute you have to do now, with the new liberal alternatives, by the leadership of the right in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] But if these results are very clear, there is no relevant distinction between public school and private school: one has 492 points, another has 491 points. The difference is absolutely irrelevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u40	In terms of social strata are completely different!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u41	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u42	Mr President, I now have only 30 seconds, so I will take advantage of them just to remind the Prime Minister that, when he took possession, there were examinations in paragraph 4. year, number 6. the year and the 9th. year. The gentlemen are done with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u43	And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u44	... and today there are only tests in 9. year. Therefore, the government's policy is tending to end the examinations in basic education. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u45	It's true! It's the facility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u46	He misses the 4th exams. The class, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u47	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u48	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, you have the deep conviction that the function of the education system is to lead those who do not know. [[It's nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u49	My deep conviction is that the function of the education system is to teach those who do not know so that it can succeed in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u50	Mr Rui Rio, you still have time available. Aren't you going to use it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u51	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u52	Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, the country is following with expectation the preparation of the State budget for 2020. from what is known to date, in the Government's proposal, the minimum targets for the recovery of income and the guarantee of rights remain hostage to the budget surplus by 2020. I do not invite you to a budgetary negotiation in the framework of a 15-year debate, it would make no sense. We'll do the budgetary negotiation on our own site. But I do not stop returning here to the main points that mobilize the Left Block in order to ensure a Budget with basic measures to respond to the country's emergencies and also to the structural weaknesses of our economy. I stress the key proposals of the Block, which we keep on the table and which have not yet a satisfactory response from the Government : to respond to the emergency in health; to lower the VAT (value added tax) of energy, which is an essential asset; to continue to recover pensions, to combat poverty and to respond to the most vulnerable; to invest in public services and to respect their workers, who have frozen wages for more than a decade; and to respond also to private sector workers, particularly in shift work, in access to reform and vacation enjoyment. The difficulties of this budgetary procedure — I know it — are different from those we have known over the past four years. this time we do not have a commitment with a four-year horizon, because this was the exclusive option of the Socialist Party. The expectation of those who listen to us today is great. It is an expectation of the State budget measures, of the government's ability to understand what it has promised and of the responsibilities and priorities of each party. The Left Block is absolutely clear about its priorities and its mandate. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday the Government announced the establishment of a working group to define a strategy to combat corruption. For the Block, the fight against corruption is — always has been — a priority. Therefore, we have always denounced the rotating door between public offices and private interests—in privatisations, PPPs (public-private partnerships) and other major profitable businesses; we have fought for the end of banking secrecy and the criminalization of unjustified enrichment; we defend the exclusivity of Members and extended periods of disgust for former governors. We will always be on the side of the fight against corruption and available to improve legislation, but let us be clear, in addition to announcements, the fight against corruption needs means. To launch the proposal for award-winning delation — which is not advisable by international experience — and to propose another working group, without guarantees of the effectiveness of previous legislative advances, can create much more noise than to allow results. For the Left Block, there are two priorities in combating corruption: giving means to the Judicial Police and the Public Ministry, ensuring the budget necessary for the human and technical means to combat a crime that is increasingly sophisticated, and ensuring the means for the Transparency Entity, created in the previous Legislature on a proposal from the Left Block, to get out of the paper and have conditions to act. I should like to know whether we are following these priorities in the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u54	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u55	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the expectation of the State budget is obviously legitimate. We are all working to have a good State Budget for 2020, which will continue the policies we started with the 2016 State Budget, which we followed in 2017, 2018, 2019 and to which we will certainly give continuity in 2020. With regard to its specific anxiety — which is ultimately smaller than that of the ordinary citizen, because it has more information — I would say that when on Monday next week the State Budget is presented, it will verify that much of what we have talked about, and that has been the concerns of the Block, is largely mirrored in the State Budget. It will ask me if they are entirely, but I cannot tell you, because I know that the ambition of the Block is always very demanding and we are not always able to be so demanding in the satisfaction of that ambition. But I think we certainly have very good conditions for making a good budget by 2020. As far as corruption is concerned, it is objectively a priority. What was presented yesterday was an enunciation of a set of measures to build a national strategy, which also focuses on the size of the media, giving continuity to the fact that we have, in fact, a new Organic Law of the Judicial Police and a new statute for judicial police officials. In particular, very important measures are envisaged, such as the monitoring of the trial by the judges themselves who did the investigation, which is of the greatest importance, not only for the management of means but also for the quality of the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office at the trial stage, and a set of other measures, which are envisaged in this national strategy and which will in some way be translated into the State budget for the coming year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u56	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u57	Mr. Prime Minister, this morning began the dredging maneuvers in the Port of Setúbal. Starting these manoeuvres a few days from the debate in Parliament of the petition against dredgings is a de facto consummated political manoeuvre which the Left Block does not accept. The dredgings have been challenged by the population and environmental movements for good reasons: they not only destroy the biodiversity of the Sado estuary — which is a natural reserve area — as they are done to increase the capacity of the Port of Setúbal, contrary to all the objectives of reducing polluting emissions. Yesterday, a study was released on the emissions of maritime transport in Portugal which states that the weight of emissions from vessels stopping at Portuguese ports is already greater than that caused by cars in the eight largest cities of the country. Mr. Prime Minister stated in Madrid, at the Climate Summit, that he does not give to make ostrich and stick his head in the sand, because scientific evidence is there and reality too. Now, when we see the government's transport policy and the bet on the most polluting, maritime and air transport, while the railway — transport without emissions and transporting less than 5 % of passengers and goods in the country — has no expansion project, the question we have to ask is whether, when it reaches transport, the government has already refused scientific evidence and has already put its head in the sand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u58	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u59	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, as regards dredgings, they were the subject of an environmental impact study and an environmental impact declaration by the Portuguese Environment Agency. Therefore, this impact study was done. Secondly, with regard to emissions from maritime transport, not only have national ports been equipped to serve ships with fuel, in particular, hydrogen with a lower impact, as Portugal has argued when these emissions must enter the carbon market, as the new President of the European Commission recently argued, in order to create a positive incentive for a regeneration of the fuel source of maritime transport. However, a country like Portugal, which has as one of its largest strategic assets the Atlantic façade, the last thing that can do is to waste its huge potential of being a large rotating platform on all the routes coming from Cape, Panama Canal or the Mediterranean. In fact, we have a privileged location and that means thousands of jobs that we can generate in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, continues to speak. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, you know that the country cannot waste its territory either, it cannot waste or ignore its responsibilities in reducing carbon emissions. That is why we have to bet on the railway, yes, so we cannot deny the scientific evidence about what maritime transport is causing. And I tell you more, Mr Prime Minister : with regard to the proposals from the European Commission, the Government will have the support of the Left Block against the budget proposal made by the Finnish presidency — we have already argued that the Portuguese Government must veto it, if it is not changed, but will not have our support for the idea of the carbon market. The question is not whether the pollutant can pay to continue to pollute; the question is that we really have to reduce emissions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister today, there are manifestations of the cultural sector that challenge the decision to finance artistic structures, which calls into question access to culture in the country. The Minister of Culture has been in Parliament saying that it's all right, but she knows it's not so and the government knows it's not. The Act, with the decision of the jury, which included the notice that the financing was clearly insufficient, is 27 August. The government has waited 45 days and only on 11 October has it published the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u63	If the delay had been to correct the error, it would have been to perceive-CL. But it wasn't. It was only to hide the error during the electoral period. This, Prime Minister, is the time to start correcting the mistakes. The Government should finance all the structures that the jury considered eligible and should clearly separate support for programming from the support for creation by activating the programme for the film network, which was set up in the Legislature as proposed by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u64	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u65	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Putting funding to the arts in the hands of programmers undermines workers and attacks freedom and diversity of artistic creation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u66	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u67	One last note, in 5 seconds, Mr. President : because today is International Human Rights Day, I wanted to say that, for the Left Block, it is a shame that Portugal has been host to the Israeli Prime Minister, Netanyahu, a war criminal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u68	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish. It has already far exceeded the time it had and is entering another matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u69	... which came to Portugal to seek support for its policies of aggression in the Middle East. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u70	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u71	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I will reply to you starting with the last question. First, in the last Parliament, we were able together to increase the budget for culture by 38 %. Specifically, with regard to arts support, there was an increase of 83 % between 2015 and 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of the competition which has now been known the results, compared with the two-year invitation to tender, there was an increase of EUR 18, EUR 7 million — EUR 18, EUR 7 million! This is the strengthening that we have been doing and that we will continue to do, in fact, according to the objective that we have set out that the overall budget for culture corresponds to 2 % of the general revenue of the State throughout this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what we do not have is the vision, which, I believe, no one can have, that a contest means that, regardless of the funds that are allocated, we finance all the candidates, regardless of their evaluation. This is not a contest, it is an opening of the list of requests and everyone is approved! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What has happened was a very clear reinforcement of EUR 18, EUR 7 million of the funds to be financed. A jury was set up, applications were submitted, the jury hierarchically applied and, obviously, according to the rules of the competition, as the funding is based on the amount proposed by each of the projects, there was a limit, which was precisely the total amount of the funds proposed for the invitation to tender. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, up to the amount of these funds were all considered; beyond these funds, there was obviously not contemplated. But these are the rules of any competition. If you think that we should be exempt from the invitation to tender and that support is simply assigned by the discretionary will of a member of the Government, I will be totally against, because I think that the support must be regulated, transparent, public and that effectively enables the government to allocate funding with complete independence in relation to the will of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards rail, there is no doubt that this government has approved the 2020 Railway Programme, which has launched and is underway the largest investment for decades in rail — more than EUR 2000 million, which is recovering the EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company ), which is acquiring new compositions for the CP ( Portugal trains ), which is recovering many compositions which were paralysed and are now operating. But, Madam Member, if I may, on the question of the budget, we must be consistent when we discuss all these matters. I have no doubt that we have to lower the cost of energy and therefore we have taken as important measures as that of the social tariff, which has allowed us to increase from 70 000 to 800 000 the families that are currently covered by this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: we must continue to reduce the tariff deficit, so as to sustainly reduce the energy tariff, but before we propose tax benefits for energy reduction, we should remind ourselves that we are even in an emergency climate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u72	You've outlived the time you had, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why, today, I am sending a letter to the President of the European Commission in support of the letter addressed by the Minister of Finance to the VAT Committee requesting that the criteria on the principle of VAT stability be amended so that the VAT rate may vary according to the different levels of consumption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u74	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u75	... so that VAT is also a good tax instrument to encourage more efficient use of energy. So, yes, we marry a good fiscal policy with a strategic objective that needs to be taken into account in all political measures, which is the fight against climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u76	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa speaks for the CFP Parliamentary Group, to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u77	Mr President, Prime Minister, the artistic creation structures are today in struggle, demanding from the Government the right to guarantee citizens access to culture. We have found that, despite this invitation to tender having taken a step forward, it is incomprehensible that eligible applications, subject to the invitation to tender, have fulfilled the requirements to receive the subsidy and the Government has gone to the limit, leaving out of the scope those which were, in fact, eligible. So there is a clear situation of injustice here and that is why we are in solidarity with the struggle of men and women of culture. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we have brought the debate on several times the problem of delay in the allocation of pensions and social security benefits. The problem is not new and the government has already made a number of promises saying it would be solved, but the fact is that the delay in the allocation of pensions remains a serious problem for many thousands of workers, who wait longer to know how they can retire and what the value of their pension, and for the unemployed, who remain unsubsidised while waiting for the reform. The year of 2019 has not yet ended and the Ombudsman has already received more than 1500 complaints because of this problem, in addition to the 923 complaints it received in 2018. This problem extends and exacerbates the timely regularisation of social benefits, including death benefit. This is not a little drama, Mr. Prime Minister, for those who have to pay in time and then spends months and even years without receiving. Once and for all, the Government must take measures to strengthen the staff of the National Pension Centre so that the problem can be overcome. I would like to ask you a question which I have already asked three times, so it may be that the third is at times: when will the government take urgent action to resolve the problem of delays in the allocation of pensions for social security? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u78	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u79	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, if I may, the question should not be "when will the government take action? But when do the measures taken by the government produce all the results they have to produce? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u80	That answer wasn't big rifle!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u81	That is the question that you have to ask me, and I tell you why. As you know, there have been measures already taken. Measures were taken in the deconcentration of treatment; a tender was launched for the hiring of 200 technicians a year and a half ago, which is still under way; a change was introduced to the law for the award of temporary pensions, which has already enabled some 20 000 new pensions to be allocated on a provisional basis. The truth is, if we compare with 2018, we find that the time of deferral has already been reduced, either from disability pensions, or from survival pensions, or from old age pensions. We still have 33 000 applications pending more than 90 days ago, but in a context where only until October were granted 147 000 new pensions. Therefore, for the first time, thanks to the set of measures taken, we are already able to deliver more requests than those that enter and are making the effort to recover the much accumulated we had and which, fortunately, we have been reducing. So the right question is not when do you take measures? But when do the measures they have taken fully produce their results? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is the question that must be answered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u82	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u83	Mr President, Prime Minister, this means that I may have to ask the question ahead. But do not forget, Mr Prime Minister, the personal and family dramas that these delays cause, particularly with regard to the allocation of pensions, reforms and allowances. Or does Mr. Prime Minister think any Portuguese citizen has $2000 to pay for a funeral? Oh, my God! You don't, Prime Minister! This problem has to be placed and dispatched with speed, as we hope it will happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u85	Mr. Prime Minister, the deadline for granting the postal public service is coming to an end. The CTTs were sold by the PSD/CDS government and, from then on, we saw the closure of stations a little across the country, the sale of the estate and the vertiginous degradation of the postal service, which arrives later and later. Today, for its shareholders, more than postal service, what counts is the CTT Bank, that is, golden egg chicken in this huge bargain. If we bring this issue back to the Assembly of the Republic, it is because the situation has worsened. The TTCs should never have left the public sphere and it has long been necessary to reverse privatisation. With the end of the concession deadline, it is urgent to provide an answer to the problem that is being created. It is not enough for the Portuguese State to rescue or put an end to the concession, because this would be left with the obligation of the service, without the instrument to carry it out.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u87	The road will have to go through the recovery of public control of the TTCs, placing it at the service of the people and the country. In the coming year, will the TTCs remain in the hands of private economic groups, speculators and others, or will they pass into the hands of the Portuguese people? What do you tell us about this important and pressing problem? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u88	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u89	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I do not know the dramas that exist with the delays in social security. For this reason, we have amended legislation to allow for the allocation of pensions on a provisional basis, because most of the 33 000 cases that have been pending for more than 90 days are cases which, as a rule, have several complexities. Most of them are persons whose pension training has combined periods in the national territory and periods abroad. There is one case, in fact, very mediated on television, a lady who, in a campaign action in Moscow, showed a receipt that revealed that she was waiting two years ago for reply. I told him I was going to see the case and I went. In particular, the problem of this woman was that she had a number of schemes: that of liberal professionals, that of professionals on behalf of others and that of several years of discounts in a foreign country. The problem of inter-communication of data and information between different countries is very serious, which often conditions the resolution of these situations. This is one of the reasons why the allocation of temporary pensions is of the greatest importance for us to be able to respond to them. I don't ignore the problem. Indeed, he exists and I fear that you will still have to return to the subject here in the Assembly of the Republic. I know that it will not be forgotten and there is one thing I can assure you: I will not forget this problem either and I will not give up until it is solved. As far as the CTT is concerned, I do not want to repeat a tape that I have used on several occasions which has raised the issue, but at the very moment when the State has to make decisions on the granting of public service, we will announce our position on this matter. Until then, we are fully available to hear suggestions, to weigh them and to discuss them. As far as we are concerned, we will do this publicly when the time is right, and this will be the time for the assessment of the concession or not granted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u90	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u91	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, after the new Health Bases Act has been adopted, the need for regulation of the law now arises. Among other aspects that require regulation, is the question of moderate rates, something that we always oppose because we consider the introduction of moderate rates to be a real obstacle that puts the right to health at home—a barrier that remains, as is confirmed by several studies that claim that only in 2017 there were no 2 million consultations in health centres and hospitals and more than 500 000 diagnostic examinations due to the cost of fees. Despite the progress made in recent years, the CFP argues that all obstacles that limit the right to health, including moderate rates, should be removed. The question I am asking you is the following: for when does the Government intend to regulate Base 24(2) of the new Health Bases Act, where it reads, « In order to promote the correct orientation of users, the collection of moderate rates in primary health care should be waived and, if the origin of the reference is the SNS, in other health benefits, in terms of law? »? The question is raised, which certainly awaits an answer from the Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u93	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, tomorrow, the Council of Ministers will approve a resolution within the framework of the multiannual strategy for the whole health legislation, in order to respond to a clear need, which exists, to reduce the subordination and level of indebtedness in the National Health Service, but also to invest in equipment, facilities and human resources. As you know, in the Government Program we are committed to regulating the Health Bases Act, with a view to the progressive elimination of moderate rates for services provided in primary health care or for all treatments or consultations that are prescribed from primary health care, from the Health Line 24 or following the referral of primary health care to other differentiated care. That is what we have and we are going to start fulfilling, certainly already in the State budget by 2020 and which will still be translated into the budget implementation law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u94	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by complimenting you and, without prejudice to the fact that we later discussed the State budget and the structural funds, I would like to ask a first question about the indirect election of the CCDRs (Coordination and Regional Development Committees) by a vast electoral college. In fact, we had this conversation here at the time of the discussion of the Government's programme. Mr. Prime Minister, expressing himself in a way that seemed quite curious to me, said, at the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the following: « this step... », such an indirect election by the authorships of the CCDRs, «...is not the step for which everyone yearns, but it is the step that must be given from now on to create confidence in the country for the following steps», among other things of the same type. I would like to tell you, Prime Minister, that this is not really the step that everyone is looking for. The step they all want is that of decentralization, which, unfortunately, is not yet done. in this matter, I will not do the wrong to ask you again by Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), but I would like to know if you can tell me exactly how many municipalities have already accepted all the competences and what is the point of situation about this decentralization, which is the only but the only step for which everyone yearns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u97	I would also like to ask you whether this indirect election is in fact not a regionalisation, because Mr. Prime Minister is quite explicit when he says that this is the step that has to be taken for the next step. What are these steps? The following steps are the creation of regional assemblies or parliaments to monitor these CCDRs and, after the indirect election of the CCDRs, the direct election of the regions. In fact, Mr Prime Minister does not hide it particularly because, at the same time as he says he does not want to advance the decision on regionalisation, he also says that he does not want to do anything that can compromise it, when it is not 'if' — that is the sovereign decision of the vote. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, of two: or, hypothesis A, we are here discussing, in fact, decentralization and then we will focus on the process of decentralization and then leave the issue of the CCDRs and their direct or indirect elections, or, hypothesis B, what is at stake is a process of regionalization, and this election is the first step. in this case, Prime Minister, what I tell you is that if that is what you want to do, then you have to present a referendum, because regionalization with only referendum! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u99	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in this debate, it is appropriate to be rigorous in the concepts and not to confuse the relocation of services with deconcentration, within the central administration, and decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u101	Decentralization may exist on several scales: there is decentralisation for freguesia, there is decentralization for the municipality and there is decentralization for the region. Regionalisation is only a form of decentralization to a regional level. I know that not all social communication knows this and that therefore it presents titles as « CDS requires referendum», but what is very clear today, in the Constitution, is that the CDS does not need to demand anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u102	It's in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u103	It is in the Constitution, in fact, that there can only be regionalization with double referendum. So there's nothing to demand. When you want to do regionalization, you have to make a double referendum! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are trying to do here is to change the process of appointing the presidents of a state-run administration body, which is the coordination and regional development committees. In fact, at the moment — I do not know whether, but I think it was introduced by a government in which the CDS participated — one of the vice-presidents is already appointed, I know that through the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, by the Mrs. Presidents of the Chamber. What we now propose is something that is contained in our Government Programme, and therefore has no secret, which was contained in our Election Programme, which was already included in the Programme of my previous Government and which was postponed due to the creation by the Assembly of the Republic, of the Independent Commission for decentralization, chaired by Eng. João Cravinho. That is, what we propose is that committee chairs no longer be appointed by the Council of Ministers and be elected by a college comprising the members of the chambers, the members of the municipal assemblies, including the chairmen of the parish councils. This is the proposal we make. When, and if the country wishes to move forward towards true regionalisation, then, yes, it will have to do what is not being proposed here: first, the CCDRs must cease to be the service of the State's unconcentrated administration and gain their own legal personality, in order to be regional authorities; secondly, we must discuss the form of their election and, for that process, yes, there must be the double referendum that is envisaged in the Constitution. As everyone knows, for many years I have been a defender of regionalisation — it was 20 years ago. over these 20 years, there were people who continued to be defenders of regionalization, there were people who were and who stopped being him and there were people who, at the time, were against and who became in favor, as, for example, Dr. Rui Rio, who already said it publicly. What I say is that, when we want to move forward, we must do so in a political framework that is solid, that is not a factor of division but of national unity, in which several of the ghosts who usually pollute this debate, such as the creation of assemblies and the increase in expenditure, are duly clarified and pacified. So it's not on my agenda. If you read the Government Programme, you will find that nothing is proposed in the area of regionalisation. What is proposed is the democratization of the designation of the CCDRs and that is what we will be moving forward in the next half. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u104	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u105	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good to have strict concepts and I must say that you are right: deconcentration is not the same as decentralisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u106	It's relocation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u107	I do not know whether this issue of Infarmed will be a good matter for us to have a discussion on rigour in the concepts, Prime Minister; in any case, it would be a deconcentration and a relocation, it would not be a decentralisation! Mr. Prime Minister, the question here is very simple. From two: either Mr Prime Minister thinks that regionalization is a separate process, but then I do not understand why this issue arises from the indirect election of the CCDRs and why it does not concentrate on decentralization, which is precisely and is not well done—to say even that it is going very wrong; or what Mr Prime Minister said before the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities is true and this is a process, a process that ends regionalization and as a first step this indirect election. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is the following: if this indirect election is not a first step and if the following steps are not those leading to regionalization, then why was it to say this to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u109	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, fortunately, what I said is a written speech, where I say precisely that it is a step, that does not compromise any subsequent step or advance. Therefore, it is the step I understand that must be taken in this legislature. But I also confess, it is not worth hiding, that I have a lot of hope to be here in the next Parliament to take the next steps. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u110	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u111	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at this point my vision is very simple: if this is the first step in a process and if the process happens only if the Portuguese say 'yes' — and it is even a process to which, in referendum, the Portuguese have already said 'no' — then if you want to take the first step before taking it, ask the Portuguese whether they want to give it, or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u113	That is what we think is sensible and that is where the government should start. The first step in this matter is a referendum. Mr Prime Minister, because I have very little time now, I would like to leave you a question on the State budget, particularly on a very important issue. This is a question not about the inclusion, because, as far as I understand, fortunately, the government no longer wants to walk in the direction of the englomeration—and although it has hurried its course, I hope that the PS will not divert itself again from that direction—but rather from a question about health and what is planned in the State budget for health. I hear a lot of parties, yours and others, talk about the lack of money—and, in fact, there is a lack of money. But what UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) and the experts come to tell us is that, in health, there is a health problem and, above all, there is a problem of poor management and inefficient management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u114	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether your Budget has finally, at the end of four, five years, measures to correct this and whether this is the time when the Government will recognise to all Portuguese the right that only some Portuguese have, which is the right to, paying a contribution to a system called ‘ADSE’, have access to the consultations they themselves freely choose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u117	Mr President, Mrs Cecília Meireles, first of all, the law of decentralization for municipalities and parish, metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities provides for a transition process up to 2021, which is running. On January 1, 2021, all municipalities will assume those powers. at this time, 89% of the municipalities have already taken part of the expected competences and the process must run with total tranquility, as in fact, it consists of the conclusions of the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. As far as regionalisation is concerned, we have not proposed it or proposed it in this Parliament. What we propose to this Parliament is the democratization of the election of the CCDRs. This is a step which, as I said in Congress, does not compromise regionalization in future, nor does it anticipate regionalization at this time. Every thing in its own time. Finally, as regards health, as I was able to tell Mrs Catarina Martins 15 days ago that she would soon have good news about subordination, I can also tell the honourable Member today that in the resolution of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, she will have good news about management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u118	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u119	I'd say it's gonna be a very happy time, because they're both gonna have good news. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u120	I find it hard to please both of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u121	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u122	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister, Mr President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, of the various criticisms that can be made to us on the proposal by the Finnish Presidency of the Council for the next multiannual financial framework, the lack of ambition and commitment to combating climate change is undoubtedly one of them. We have therefore sought to see Mr. Prime Minister recognise the need to respond with firmness to the impending climate crisis in which we live, so we are more perplexed by some environmentally incomportable options that have been taken, such as the construction of the new airport in Montijo, the feasibility of dredging in the Sado estuary, the ineffectiveness of waste management policies or the promotion of the transport of live animals. Thus, Prime Minister, at this very important moment for the country—in which we are going to discuss the State budget, but not wanting to move it away from this debate—and in the face of the climate challenges we face and also the commitment we should have with animal welfare, we cannot fail to ask you whether or not you are available to revisit these political options and, in particular, the dredgings in the Sado estuary, to determine the suspension of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u124	Mr. President, Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, as you know, in 2016, Portugal was the first country in the world to make a commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This year, we were the first country in the world to adopt a road map of concrete measures to achieve this goal, setting, in fact, the greatest effort and ambition in this first essential decade by 2030. And we made this commitment knowing that it was necessary at the same time to meet one set of other needs. The country needs a new airport, the country needs to value its Atlantic facade and its port capacity, so we must not give up these opportunities. We need to know how to implement them in the context of what our climate action commitments are and, in particular, in the area of environmental protection. That is why the dredgings in the Sado estuary were made only after an environmental impact study and after the release of the environmental impact declaration. We have no reason to suspend a work which the Portuguese Environment Agency has authorized to be carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u125	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real continued to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u126	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not enough to say that you are committed to combating climate change or on the path to decarbonisation when you know each day examples that point to another direction. Consider the following example: A study by the European Federation for Transport and Environment has recently been published which notes that ships stopping at European Union ports issued more than 139 million tonnes of CO2 in 2018. Just to get an idea, ships operating in European ports pollute more than all passenger vehicles in Europe. The NAP has called on the Government to speed up the tourist capacity of Portuguese cities, particularly in Lisbon and Porto, but the Government seems to be more concerned to continue to increase indefinitely the number of tourists visiting our country, without knowing the real impacts, not only in the environment but in the cities themselves. Mr Prime Minister, is the government available to ensure responsible tourism and, if so, will it or will it not carry out the tourist cargo capacity studies that the NAP calls for and restrict degraded access to cities? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u128	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, this is a matter in which I believe that the principle of decentralization should really apply. The most important thing is that cities know how to manage their resources and capabilities, as well as the balance that they must maintain between the tourist offer they should generate and the tourist offer they should limit. Today, the law already allows them to do so and, indeed, they have taken action in this regard. For example, here in the capital, I read that the City Council approved containment areas for the expansion of local housing. And it is good that the municipalities are doing so - because no one is in better condition than the municipalities to do the most appropriate management of their territory. They are, in fact, those who have the competence to define where it is edificable and where it is not edificable, which can or cannot be built, what are the conditions of edificability, what are the uses. Finally, no one is better than the municipalities can manage their territory. Therefore, this is even a matter where I trust that municipalities know how to manage their capacity well. When we think about this, it is appropriate to put it in perspective. Today, perhaps, we complain that, in some areas, there are too many tourists. But it should not be forgotten that, even 10 years ago, what people complained about was the abandonment, the emptiness that existed in those spaces. It's good to meditate on that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u129	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real continued to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u130	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it seems to us that the government has to decide which side it wants to be: whether on the side of those who, like the NAP, want a healthy planet, or whether on the side of those who have only intended to plunder it, compromising up to their own existence and what are the interests of the present and future generations. on both sides, at the same time, it can't be safe! In conclusion, Prime Minister, we would like to talk about the Accessible Rent Program (PAA). Since it entered into force on 1 July, this programme has still only resulted in the conclusion of 78 signed contracts. We are aware of the government's reading of this reality, particularly when it tells us that the results will only be more clearly seen within two years or that the pace of accession to the Programme is increasing. But, Prime Minister, the urgency associated with housing matters does not allow us to calm down with such answers. at a time when more and more people are unable to bear incomes, especially in large urban centres, and, as a result, they are now being disposed of from their homes and even pushed into homeless situations, now forced to search out peripheral areas, with all the harmful social, labor and environmental effects, which we would like to ask them — today that the International Day of Human Rights is celebrated and that the right to housing is a universally consecrated and fundamental right — is whether the Government is available, at the doors of the discussion of the State budget, to expand the Accessible Rent Programme and revise its criteria and with it the number of fires available for 28 000 aggregates and, if so, as it intends to break the cycle of loss for real estate speculation and ensure that more owners are available to rent their properties. Finally, since the right to housing is a fundamental right for the reintegration of people in situations of extreme social vulnerability, as are the people in situations of homelessness, is the Government available to assume the commitment to implement this right, already in the State budget for next year? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u132	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the country has been without housing policy for decades. He had a policy of granting credit to construction and had a policy of liberalizing incomes. The combination of these two policies was fatal. And today we live a global context, where, as a result of the global fall in the value of interest rates, the real estate has become the investment of refuge. The housing crisis we live in is not, fortunately or unfortunately, a national exclusive, but is now a reality throughout the most developed world. And that, in fact, requires a new generation of housing policies, which this government had the courage to launch after decades without any new housing policy initiative. It is early to assess the success of the overall programme, including that of the Accessible Rent Programme, which was only regulated about three months ago. But there is something about which I have no doubt: we must continue to develop policies, because there is no such thing as there is no rule — no silver bullet that solves all the problems. And the issue of accessible housing is central to the vitality of cities, social cohesion, the right to emancipation of young generations and the right to tranquility of older generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u133	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u134	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We must, therefore, succeed. And the next State budget will certainly contain a set of measures that strengthen incentives for affordable rental and — in fact, crossing this issue with its previous question — which favour, in particular, the transfer of fires that are now affected by local housing to housing without the tax penalty that exists today on this matter. I believe that the next State Budget will be able to take another step towards having a new generation of policies that favours affordable rental in our cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u135	To put questions, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u136	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me, first of all, and on behalf of the Greens, to health all the men and women who are struggling today to have art and culture in our country. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Mr Prime Minister referred to the second pillar of the CAP (common agricultural policy) and even recalled that this pillar aims to promote rural development. In fact, both the second and the first pillar of the CAP provide support for sustainable agricultural practices, with environmental benefits, with respect to the protection of the environment, rural landscape, natural resources and soils. It happens that superintensive crops, such as olives or peanuts, have come to benefit from these support when they have nothing to do with sustainable agricultural practices — on the contrary! — and contrary, in fact, to all the assumptions which preside over the allocation of such support. What I wanted to know, Prime Minister, was whether the Government would take any action to propose the end of these support, from the first and second pillar of the CAP, to superintensive crops. Mr Prime Minister, the European Parliament has recently adopted a resolution warning that the transport sector has substantially increased greenhouse gas emissions and will continue to increase, by 2050, to absolutely frightening values. In aviation, this increase can reach 700 % and on navigation we are talking about an increase that can range from 50 % to 250 %. Furthermore, according to some studies, air pollution of ships operating in European ports may be greater than pollution caused by all passenger vehicles in Europe. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to know what the Government's sensitivity to this issue is and whether it is intended to include it in the discussion of the European Union's financial framework, in particular the need to put an end to the subsidization of maritime transport or at least limit it to cases where there is an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I would also like to know how sensitive the Government is to the need to establish CO2 emission limits for ships that scale at European ports.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u137	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u138	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all we have to decide, at the point of order, what cultures must exist in each parcel of the territory. This was what we did, for example, in the regional planning plans of the forest and when we restricted the intensive olive tree in the perimeter of the Alqueva, because there was already too much presence of this culture. I do not believe that transferring this debate to the conditions for financing the CAP is the right way. As far as emission reductions are concerned, we have a script that has already been approved and has concrete measures, so far as they are being adopted. when we decide to close the Pego central in 2021 or in 2023, the Sines central in 2023, we are helping to eliminate two of the main sources of CO2 emissions, because 15 % of our emissions are in these two plants. we are making a major contribution to changing the mode and paradigm of mobility, particularly in the metropolitan areas. by giving priority to investment in rehabilitation, we are helping to improve energy efficiency and to encourage the circular economy in the field of construction. This is the concrete roadmap we're drawing, but we're not going to stop planting, eating or circulating. What we have is to plant, eat and circulate in a sustainable way for the environment. When I say 'circular', it is by land, air or sea. Sustainability is the response rather than the absence of mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u139	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u140	Mr President, Prime Minister, we cannot conclude that superintensive crops are sustainable agricultural practices, environmental friends and do good soils. We know we don't. Mr Prime Minister referred to the coal plants that will close — that of Sines and that of Pego — and we have already said so here, we believe that this measure is very good from the point of view of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change. But we're environmentalists, and that's not enough. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether in the meantime the Government has already met with the representative organisations of the workers of the Sines and Pego plants in order to guarantee the rights of about 600 workers with effective links and, above all, of the workers with precarious links that work for EDP, some, and for Pegop, others. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I think it is important to have a guarantee on your part. We believe that there is no kind of compensation to central operators for their closure. from a contractual point of view, there is nothing that obliges the State to compensate EDP and Pegop. The Energy Acquisition Contract and the CMEC (Contract Balance Maintenance Cost) related to Sines ended in 2017 and those relating to Pego will end in 2021, which is exactly the year the government plans to close that power plant. We would therefore like to have the Government's assurance that there will be no compensation to operators for the closure of coal plants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u141	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u142	Mr. President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I reply telegraphly. I believe, in fact, that I have already responded, but it is better to repeat. There will be no compensation either for the closure of the Pego plant or for the closure of the Sines plant. There will be no compensation. Secondly, it is being developed by the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ) a project funded by the environmental fund to study the requalification needs of workers who need it, since one of the hypotheses regarding the Pego central at least is to be able to have a re-use with another type of fuel. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u143	Mr Ventura has the floor now to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u144	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have already put this matter to you at your own disposal — indeed, we have also put it at 1. The Commission — but we did not get an answer. However, I'll put it back here directly. At a time when we could not pay our Armed Forces what we should actually pay, I ask you, eyes in your eyes: do we have a plan to go and find the families of the Jihadist fighters in Syria? I ask you with all the openness and frontality: do we have, or do we not, a plan to spend Portugal's money on people who, as they said, still want to kill us all? That's what I ask you directly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u145	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u146	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, no, we have no plan to go find the families of ancient jihadists in Syria. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u147	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u148	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for your clarification. There are three questions we would like to ask you, the first concerning the area of health. Mr.Sérgio Sousa Pinto said it was anecdotic to think that health is not falling apart and his parliamentary leader said that every day he receives complaints about the National Health System. I ask you whether the budget estimate is that we will again have a deficit of 90 million and it will end up in 550 million euros. I also ask you what to say about the office of the Secretary of State who banned further contracts in the National Health Service. In fact, if we want to improve the National Health Service, we cannot say that no more people can be hired. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Finally, I ask you, Prime Minister, since your Minister for the Environment applauded the arrival of young Greta to Portugal and since he so much likes to glance at the PAN, the ENP and the PCP, as it is possible that no one in this House has questioned him about the fact that Portugal has fallen eight positions — eight! — in such a famous ranking of the environment and climate change. It was not supposed to be the one here to do this role, but we are forced to do it, because apparently no one else wants to do it. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Thank you! I hear you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u150	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I'm being interrupted, but I'll be done. Mr Prime Minister has challenged me, at the beginning of this Parliament, to support the measures of the Socialist Party's programme in relation to corruption. So far, we haven't seen anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u151	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u152	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask you where is the PS proposal on illicit enrichment. We're all waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u153	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u154	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, it is appropriate for this Government to wait only for what is in the Government Programme. And our Government Programme does not change week but week no, according to the criticisms it receives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u155	It's a cap that creeps up to your feet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u156	But I see that it is already adapted to its new program and that the National Health Service has also become in its heart. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u157	It was always in my heart!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u158	Good! It gives us all hope of the future of humanity, because we thought that from the presentation of his doctoral thesis until today there had been a sad process of regression,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u159	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u160	...but, by the way, there are areas where remarkable progress can be made. Welcome to the defense of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u161	Are you going to answer or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u162	It will be another to have a pleasant surprise tomorrow with the adoption of a resolution by the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u163	Ah! It's tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u164	I also realized that, in spite of everything, the environmental issue concerns him only for political dialectics, but that he was supposed not to be interested in arriving. We knew! I want to tell you that the data that came out, from a non-governmental organization, refer to the year 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u165	to 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u166	No, on 2017. I repeat, they refer to 2017, a year which has been marked with two facts that you have taken into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u167	The Pope's coming? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u168	No, no, no. It was a tragic year in forest fires, which exponentially increased our CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u169	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u170	Mr. President, I conclude now. And it was a year of severe drought, which contributed to the production of hydraulic energy having a very significant breakdown. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u171	We fell eight positions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u172	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u173	Mr President, Prime Minister, 33 years after Portugal's accession to the European Union, there is still going to Brussels every year to fight for more alms from rich European countries. Instead of ambitioning to stop needing the Cohesion Fund and other funds, funds for the objectives set out in Brussels are requested. In 2004 the European Union had 15 members and only two of them remain poor to the point where they still need the support of the Cohesion Funds — Portugal and Greece — exactly the least liberal and more statistical countries. The real cohesion that the Liberals want is to stop needing the support of the Cohesion Funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u174	Long live Chile!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u175	...and grow more than the countries of our size and which compete with us. I already know that Mr. Prime Minister will say that we are growing above the average of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u176	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u177	...but that's an average of the little one. It is forgotten to say that only four countries have grown less than Portugal in the last quarter. The Government's reaction to the proposals, the Finnish Presidency or others, which seek to reduce the structural funds is symptomatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u178	And how will the liberal paradise of Chile be?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u179	He does not know how to live without the money of other Europeans and we all know the famous phrase: "Socialism lasts until the money of others is finished. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] In fact, this is noted in the insistent calls made by the Prime Minister to strengthen the contributions of each country and to increase the European Union's own revenue. That is, in good Portuguese: more taxes. All this exists and all this is sad. It is sad that Portugal is, says the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the only country in the cohesion group which will not grow by more than 2 % in 2020 and 2021. It is sad that, in recent years, Portugal has been overcome by several Eastern countries and is now poorer than Slovenia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u181	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u182	She'll end up crying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u183	It is sad to realize that, within 10 or 15 years, without the necessary liberal reforms, we can be the poorest country in Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think this reality is sad and this lack of ambition?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u184	It's anecdotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u185	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u186	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, first of all it is happy to note that at least it remains consistent and has not yet needed to change the programme of your party. [[PS laughter.]] So it is a real liberal: against any support, even to your country. That's the way it is! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is sad is that you understand that the European funds are a charity and not a duty of solidarity, a fundamental value in which the European project is based. The European project is based on peace and solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even more sad is the fact that you did not realize that there is not one single country in the European Union — one, I repeat — that you do not receive support from the Cohesion Funds. All the countries of the European Union receive support from the Cohesion Funds. Many receive us directly, as is the case with Germany, where most of the Länder receives support from the Cohesion Funds. It receives Denmark, receives Finland, receives the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u187	Sure! And they'll get more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u188	There is no European Union country receiving support from the Cohesion Funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you know why, Your Honor? Even though a country is more developed, not all regions are equally developed. Perhaps, in its geography of Portugal, it may be excluded from the Cohesion Funds, but in the real country that Portugal is, we cannot dispense with these funds and we will beat ourselves for them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u189	We have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We shall immediately begin the second point, which is the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Act of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic within the scope of the European Union Construction Process. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be very short, given that the main point of the European Council is precisely the debate on the multiannual financial framework, for which I have had the opportunity to express myself for 12 minutes. Now, I would like to hear, after a painful silence of the different benches, or rather, of almost all the benches, about these matters, what the Assembly... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u191	I said "almost all"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u192	Fix it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u193	I said « almost all benches». As I was saying, I would like to hear what the House has to say on this subject, since we know that the PSD agrees that it is necessary to reject the Finnish proposal, we know that the Liberal Initiative supports the Finnish proposal and we know that the PS also supports the position of the Government, and therefore the Government deeply thanks the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u194	And the Block too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u195	I have nothing more to add to what I've already had the opportunity to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u196	And the Block too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u197	Ah! And the Block too! The Block did say that it also refused the Finnish proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u198	And the others will hear now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u199	So I'm going to listen now and I'm going to save time to be able to answer properly. Thank you very much, Mr Bruno Dias, and I would like to congratulate you because you have not yet seen it in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u200	It's a pleasure! But look I've been here! I'm not missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u201	Let us then start the debate phase. Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u202	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, as President of the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs, I would like to welcome him and the Government and to express Parliament's readiness in this case through the Committee on European Affairs for close and loyal cooperation, throughout this mandate, in the defence of European values and national interests in the context of the European Union. We shall exercise, with commitment and determination, the powers conferred on us by the Treaty of Lisbon and by national legislation as regards the monitoring, assessment and delivery of Portugal's participation in the European construction process. A week ago, I had the honour to preside over the delegation of the Assembly of the Republic that participated in the LXII COSAC (Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of Parliaments of the European Union), which took place in Helsinki, composed of the representatives Isabel Rodrigues and Pedro Cegonho, of the PS, Isabel Meireles and Paulo Moniz, of the PSD, and of the Deputy Beatriz Dias, of the Block of Left. There, we have all had the opportunity to intervene and influence positively, proposing or supporting the inclusion in the final documents of a set of recommendations that are in line with the national positions that have been defended by the Government, especially with regard to climate change and the multiannual financial framework, in this case, through a vigorous rejection of the Finnish proposal, which will be under discussion at the European Council this week. We also affirmed the need for the European Union to have a budget that is compatible with its high ambitions during the next programming period, including bold weighting and decisions on new own resources. Secondly — and allow me to speak now as a Member of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — being essentially concerned at the next European Council with climate change and the MFF ( Multiannual Financial Framework ), I would like to congratulate you, and the Government, on the leadership and constructive position which you have taken on behalf of Portugal. As regards climate change, I congratulate you on the anticipation already taken and translated in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 1 July, which approved the roadmap for carbon neutrality, and the targets set for 2030, within the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan. With regard to the multiannual financial framework, I congratulate you on the inconformity and rejection of the Council's proposals, including the latter, of the Finnish Presidency, and the insistence on the need to rethink and strengthen the Union's own resources, as a fundamental prerequisite for the difficult and cyclical discussion around the percentages of GNI (gross national income) and to ensure the means necessary to give concrete expression to the new and old European policies, of digital science and innovation, of migration to security, without forgetting the relevance of cohesion, agriculture, rural development and the sea, including, in the Portuguese case, the need to ensure the continuity, in appropriate terms, of support to the outermost regions. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, how much you expect to achieve an acceptable compromise, already in this Council, on climate objectives. Given the need for the rapid approval of the new multiannual financial framework and the remote position of the so-called net contributors, does the European Council consider it possible to make any positive progress? Finally, I would like to know your opinion on whether or not progress could be made on new own resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u203	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u204	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, the Government which you are leading has defined carbon neutrality as a structural challenge for this mandate and, in line with the electoral programme presented to the Portuguese, has also defined measures that can reduce the carbon footprint and have been creating a set of instruments in this direction, so that we can in fact achieve this design by 2050. Whereas Portugal, like other countries in southern Europe and the Mediterranean basin, has special vulnerabilities to the effects of climate change, I would like to ask you the following question : to what extent can we find a specific response to this particular vulnerability of Portugal to climate change in the next multiannual framework of the European Union? I would also like to leave to you an issue which is equally relevant to us and which has to do with the conference on the future of Europe, which will take place during the mandate of Portugal in the European Union. We would like to know which main guidelines the Government has in this regard. In conclusion, I left him with another issue which is also important for us, with Portugal, in this area, a special asset and a very rich heritage, in relation to the relationship of the European Union with the African continent and the European Union/Africa summit. What strategic guidelines has the Government planned for this summit, given that we have not yet known in detail neither the model nor the format of this summit? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u205	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u206	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the eve of the next European Council, the PSD wants first and foremost the greatest successes for all new leaders of the European institutions who have just started their mandates. Obviously, the PSD extends this compliance to European Commissioner Dr. Elisa Ferreira, whom we also hope for good work in the face of cohesion policy and reforms. She is also the first Portuguese woman to join the European Commission, together with the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and also in front of the ECB ( European Central Bank ), Christine Lagarde. That is, we can say that this is a very happy time for women, who will know, I'm right, make the difference. Mr Prime Minister, the next European Council will focus on decisive issues for Europe in the coming years, or even decades, I would say. The fight against climate change is one of the topics considered priority by the new President of the European Commission and, indeed, today, the European Parliament has declared the climate emergency situation. I wonder how the Portuguese Government intends to halt the fight against this cause when internal signs are absolutely contradictory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u207	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u208	It is this morning that the Climate Change Performance Index was known during the Madrid climate summit, which still runs, and Portugal gets the worst position ever, with the country's performance coming down in almost all categories.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u209	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u210	Our country has come down eight places, now occupying 25. the position between 57 countries. What measures has the Government taken, I ask, to mitigate the impact of drought and forest fires, areas where the former socialist government left a trail of bad memory and an unprecedented crisis of internal authority? This is a horrendous contradiction. This is a terrible sign that the Portuguese Government gives. The planet, I say, dispenses masked socialisms or green or "green super-man" that comes to save mankind, because in practice it does the opposite. What we see are options and policies that further destroy ecosystem balance and leave irreversible damage to the next generations. Does the Portuguese Government, I ask, have any plans for Green Deal to combat climate change, or will we continue to have announcements, promises and intentions? Mr Prime Minister, the multiannual financial framework will also be discussed at the European Council. The Finnish Presidency proposal, we agree, nobody supports it. The contribution of 1, 7 % of gross national income...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u211	It's 0, 7%!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u212	The contribution of 0, 7% of the 27 Member States is below 1, 16% that you, Prime Minister, defend. I ask what arguments the Lisbon Government will make for a more advantageous solution for Portugal, a position closer to the European institutions, Parliament and the European Commission. Mr Prime Minister, as regards the Cohesion Funds, since the beginning of this year that the PSD in the Assembly of the Republic, has asked you this simple question : what is the negotiation of funds when, to what extent, cohesion policy will benefit the richest countries and penalise Portugal? How does the Portuguese Government intend to defend the national position with Brussels when countries such as Spain, Italy and even Finland win? Where is the strength of cohesion friends' reason? The PSD also argues that there are no cuts in the CAP (common agricultural policy), and the second pillar of rural development has a cut-off proposal of more than 25 %, which is absolutely unacceptable. Can you tell us how you intend to prevent this cut? Or is the negotiating power of the Prime Minister up to the rate of implementation of the European funds? The implementation rate of these funds is currently around 40 %, i.e. 60 % of the 25, 9 billion euro of European funds from Portugal 2020 are still to be used. How can we claim more money if we can't afford to spend those we have? Portugal only executed 10, 5 billion euros of funds, I repeat, 40 %. They are very low values, or, in the language which Mr. Prime Minister greatly appreciates, very "little". Finally, I ask you one last question: are the Government and the Prime Minister in a position to ensure before this House that Portugal will not have a cut in the Cohesion Funds of the order of 7 %? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u213	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Fabíola Cardoso. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u214	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : Some of us arrived here a short time ago. I am not referring to this House, the Government, or even the European Commission. I mean human beings, in this tiny hydrated rock, surrounded by gases, which we call Earth. When we arrived, the planet had already surpassed several global crises, with catastrophic consequences for its inhabitants—the dinosaurs say so! But now, for the first time, we are the main ones responsible for the calamity that brings into question not the continuation of life on Earth but our future as a species. We are not the pinnacle of creation. We are part of an intricate and delicate network of biogeochemical cycles and we completely depend on the very special and also very fragile conditions that exist in this little bit of the Universe. If, for many years, the negationist theories of climate change have been able to impose, today, the climate emergency is recognised not only by this Parliament but also by the European Parliament, so much so that the fight against climate change will be the first item on the agenda of the European Council that this debate is preparing. The Commission chaired by Ursula von der Leyen advocates as a priority a European ecological pact, the Green Deal, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55 % by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality in the European Union by 2050. Mobilizing scientific knowledge is not enough. A tablet may lower the fever, but it will not cure the disease. The scientific consensus now points to the path. The cause of the climate emergency is in the existing system of extraction, production and consumption, a production addicted to fossil fuels, aggressively extractive, which bury tons of natural resources while destroying rivers, forests, native peoples and cultures to obtain them. The logic of infinite consumption is unsustainable on a finite planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u216	On the day when it is announced that Portugal falls to the lowest ever position in the Climate Change Performance Index, in the month when the European Environment Agency announces that we will not meet the targets for 2020, neither carbon dioxide sales markets nor the announced trillion euro go to the root of the problem. If the "deal" continues as usual, we can call it "green" 10 times a page, but that does not solve the problem. The recent demonstration in Madrid is a global cry of young people, in view of the lack of political action and the lack of operational ambition of governments, which we cannot ignore. We know that in saying to Mr Prime Minister, « we have two duties: to listen to scientists and to act ». Can we therefore conclude, Mr Prime Minister, that this European Council will defend binding targets and concrete policies to prevent the continued increase in emissions and ensure carbon neutrality? We can do this, for example, as the Left Block defends, by canceling the tax benefits on coal and other fossil fuels, both at the level of energy production and in aviation, ensuring the placement of solar panels in public buildings and housing, in a decentralised and shared logic of solar energy, and providing efficient and affordable public transport, with the expansion of the metro and the increase of the supply of buses, both linked to the railway. There is a need for courageous and profound changes in European policy, which include, in all its aspects, adaptation to climate change in agriculture, forests, the sea, health, work and undoubtedly also in education and science. It is about replacing a profit logic with the logic of sustainability. We can do this, for example, by abolishing the use of single plastics and double packaging, ending with support for intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings and protecting workers directly affected by this transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u217	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u218	I conclude, yes, Mr President. Only through effective mechanisms of action, accompanied by monitoring and evaluation processes open to the participation of global citizenship, will we be able to maintain the environmental conditions that allow us to call home to this small planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u220	My questions are simple. Mr Prime Minister, do you agree with the measures put forward? And, in the light of the debate before, how will they be implemented? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u221	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, first of all let me clarify the following: Mr Prime Minister has noticed today, but for a few weeks now we have been around - in fact, I would say more 'a few years ago'! Open... [[Rice from the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Duarte Cordeiro.]] Mr Prime Minister has already made it clear that the key priority for the Government at this meeting of the European Council is the substantive debate on the next multiannual financial framework. It is not surprising, of course, when taking into account the seriousness and unacceptable nature of the Finnish Presidency proposal. But if we did not expect anyone in this House to reject the rejection that the Government has stated and defended, we cannot but underline the reservations and warnings that the CFP has systematically been making in relation to the problems of this financial framework, which has had a very bad starting point and is getting worse and worse. The truth is that this financial framework goes further than the previous ones in emphasising asymmetries between regions and countries and in abandoning a policy of cohesion and convergence which, in fact, has never been worthy of that name and has never had the means to do so. When Mr Prime Minister mentioned, as I said earlier, this need for balance between cohesion, the CAP and new policies, the problem is that these new policies are very old policies, such as militarism and the war industry, securityism, areas that have received unparalleled funding in the frameworks to date. That is why, then, if you are going to say that there is no money for cohesion — all this is unacceptable! — it is also due to the centralised management of the funds and the privilege given, also by this way, to the advantages and benefits to the great European powers, with Germany at the head. It is spoken out of the United Kingdom of the European Union, but during the framework now ending in Horizon 2020, which was a centralised management programme, the main beneficiary country in accounting terms—is not in real terms, it is nominally—was the United Kingdom. On the other hand, now, precisely in areas such as cohesion, not only is the budget cut as they are still created « slippers », I would say, as is the case with the Fund for a Just Transition, which has benefited countries as well as Germany, although not so much is said about this. Mr Prime Minister, the question that arises is to do this substantive debate, which is proclaimed on the agenda of the meeting but which cannot be limited to the discussion of a pseudo-option between what is bad and what is bad. We cannot just stand between this proposal from the Finnish Presidency and anything a little bit worse than that. We must reject the supposed inevitability of contributions based on gross national income. The redistributive nature of the budget and the principle of contribution solidarity must be strengthened, and not reduced, because this is in the role but is not in the practice of the European Union — quite the contrary! In addition, it was the European Commission itself that, in its communication of February last year, opposed the accounting reading of Community funds to the analysis of the benefits of integration into the single market. This is on page 6 and starts with Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, which are the main beneficiaries of this market and this integration. Portugal is 19. The place! Do not speak of beneficiaries and net contributors. We are indeed speaking in the most powerful countries, which are the biggest beneficiaries of this European Union. As we have been saying, basically, what we are watching is the European Union being the European Union and for a long time the CFP has been stressing the imperative need to reject this path. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u223	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : With regard to the agenda of this European Council, the most important issue has already been mentioned here, which is the multiannual financial framework and of course we will not stop talking about it. First of all, we have a consensus: we also reject the Finnish proposal and, of course, we are in solidarity with the defence of the interest of Portugal. But we have to say two other things. The fact that we are supportive and reject the Finnish proposal is the consequence of what has been the CDS' speech throughout this time and that the government has been denying it. We have warned and said several times, either in discussions here or in discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State in the Commission, that the strategy of Portugal could call into question the success of the position that Mr Prime Minister said he was defending. The first question we raised is what Mr Prime Minister said he wanted to defend, which was the construction of bridges between different types of countries, saying that we should sit with Germany and France and also with Greece and that we should not limit ourselves to meetings of the cohesion group or align with the countries of Visegrad. So, having failed the Prime Minister's strategy well, we ask: what went wrong and why is Portugal now exactly in the position where we said that it could come to stay, if it followed this path? Then it is important for Portuguese to know what is at stake, because "multi-annual financial framework" can tell people little. Cohesion funds and CAP funds are at stake for the next few years, and therefore the result of a government that has always been stated as the Government that could best influence European policies in favour of Portugal and the famous, national and international Prime Minister is also at stake. Now, in a matter as important for Portuguese as cohesion funds and the CAP, we may, after all, get worse than we were before this government and this Prime Minister. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, it is important for us to clarify this matter and the aim of Portugal at the moment. We know what the Commission's initial proposal was and we know what the European Parliament's proposal was. It was hoped that the Finnish Presidency's proposal could remain between them, but it was worse than that of the Commission. What will the Portuguese Government, which will have the support of the CDS to fight for the defence of the interests of Portugal, do so that our position is not what it is right now? Then there is the issue of climate change and the Right Transition Fund, and here too, the relevance is twofold. On the one hand, we want to know how this fund will be set up and how the fund's money will be applied, because it is important to know it. For example, we know that Poland will be one of the main beneficiaries of this Fund, due to the deactivation of coal mines in its territory, and that Germany will also benefit from the intensive use of coal. What we want to know, given, above all, the requirements that Green Deal will bring to the national economy, is how Portugal will be supported...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u225	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, what we want to know is how Portugal will be supported so that the Fund for a Just Transition is no longer an obstacle to support Portugal. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I ask: will the summit between Europe and Africa be or will it not be in the Portuguese Presidency?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u227	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u228	And if you stop being in the Portuguese Presidency, as it had been announced by Mr President of the Republic, then why? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u229	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u230	Mr President, Prime Minister : We know that this week in Brussels the European Council will make a strong statement to ensure climate neutrality in the European Union by 2050. However, as we have already noted, the proposal put on the table by the Finnish Presidency for the next multiannual financial framework is not ambitious and even contradictory to the principles of this European Council. In the current context, and with the confirmation of Brexit, 1, 07 % of gross national income is unrealistic if we want to be determined in the European economic, just and social transition, such as in the structural fight against the climate crisis. What we ask you, Prime Minister, knowing that, on 28 September 2018, at the visit of the President of the European Parliament to Lisbon, you have defended a global value for the multi-annual framework of 1, 3 %, which is the position of the European Parliament, is to maintain that position with the other Member States. Furthermore, Mr Prime Minister: the declaration of climate neutrality which has been made in the Council is a historic framework which only falls late. For decades, the European Greens have been alerting for the need for radical change in public policies, the way in which goods and services are produced, and for the mistake that has been financing an economy based on fossil fuels and on superproductivism. We know that one of the points of this Council's conclusions is that all European policies must comply with and contribute to this climate neutrality. This is where the 'nineth proof' of this declaration lies, because, for example, the current common agricultural policy is totally contrary to this principle. So, Prime Minister, let us ask you whether you are prepared to defend a structural change in the CAP. This is because the proposal on the table is no more than the old CAP, the CAP for large livestock producers, the CAP that will continue to contribute to the carbon footprint, the CAP that will continue to exploit the natural resources and also the animals, the CAP that will also continue to challenge the sustainability of ecosystems and the preservation of biodiversity. Do you or do you not, Prime Minister, defend a review of the current common agricultural policy so that it becomes a CAP which is more affixing on organic agriculture and on the conversion to the appropriate use of existing soils and natural resources? And what priority will be given, Prime Minister, in terms of territorial cohesion, particularly for the development of the country's interior, also contributing to the reduction of regional asymmetries, along with the issues already raised here in the field of climate change, above all also related to Portugal's current position in the ranking, which, although it has been more effective in terms of climate change policies, has fallen into what its performance has been? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u231	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u232	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : The Greens also reject the Finnish proposal for the multiannual financial framework, but the Council will also take a look at climate change and this is the subject I bring to the discussion. The report on the state of the environment in the European Union, produced by the European Environment Agency, is not encouraging. According to that report, the European Union is not doing enough to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and will not meet the sustainability targets it has set. What the report says is that only two of the three objectives defined for the protection of nature and conservation of biodiversity should be achieved. This, of course, has an explanation. What we think is that the European Union is talking a lot about climate change, but then it is moving forward in the deregulation of international trade, boosting intensive production, and imposing agricultural policies that favour large agribusiness, crushing small production, rooting out family agriculture and pushing people out of agricultural fields, naturally boosting the abandonment of the rural world and desertification. But the European Union has also embarked on the conversation of reducing the fight against climate change to a mere business, with the carbon market, where rich countries can pollute as long as they pay. And as if this mechanism, which I would say is a sinister, was little, now there are still countries like Brazil defending the double counting. That is, both the buyer and the seller will be able to discount the value of the business in the total emissions they produce. It was therefore important to see what the position of the government in this double counting, which I would call hit, with regard to the carbon market. In conclusion, Prime Minister, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on COP25, the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, advocating that the European Union should reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 50 % by 2030 rather than currently foreseen 40 % by 2030. I would like to know, Prime Minister, what the position of the Portuguese Government on this European Parliament proposal to set targets by 50 % instead of 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u233	To close this preparatory debate of the European Council, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome Mr Capoulas Santos as President of the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs, who, in the role of national parliaments, is essential for the follow-up of European themes and as a true second pillar of European democracy within the Union, and wish him the greatest happiness in this new mandate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First of all, and on the question of the next multiannual financial framework, I am pleased to note that, with the exception of the Liberal Initiative Member, everyone rejects the Finnish proposal, which gives the Government great comfort for the position we will take in the next...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u235	He didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u236	Ah! He has not spoken and the honourable Member is no longer present, but he must agree. It must agree with that. But as I was saying, this gives the Government great comfort as to the position of rejection of this position that we will take on board in the Council. It must be borne in mind that we cannot fall into the trap of entertaining ourselves to discuss the different applications of resources, because the question is even amounting. We can discuss whether defence is better or worse, but for example, the Finnish proposal even reduces by 39 %, almost EUR 10 billion, the funds allocated to defence, compared with the Commission proposal, and that is not what makes the Finnish proposal a better proposal. At the moment, our problem — and this is the centre of the battle we have been fighting — has to do with the overall amount of the budget, which requires more transfers and more own resources on the part of the different states. Ask the CDS-PP what the position of the Portuguese Government is. On the position of the Portuguese Government I have already had the opportunity to say that we must seek an institutional consensus between the Commission's initial proposal and the European Parliament's initial proposal. Our starting point, in a negotiating commitment logic, as I have already had the opportunity to say several times, must be at least 1 to 16 %, which corresponds to maintaining the same percentage effort of all States in relation to what they have accepted seven years ago, discounting the United Kingdom. If you want, that is what will allow the Prime Minister of Finland to say, in the Finnish Parliament, that it does not increase its efforts and that it will allow the European Union to benefit from the increase in the resources necessary to meet both the new objectives of the strategic agenda, or to avoid any cuts in cohesion policy or in the common agricultural policy. Mrs Isabel Meireles, I would first of all like to see that we do not weaken the country's negotiating position with discussions on the level of implementation, especially with unfair accusations. Portugal is the first in its implementation rate among the countries that benefit the most. at present it has an implementation rate of 38, 3 % compared with 30, 2 % of the European average. We are not wrong in execution, we are fine, and we must not weaken our negotiating position on this issue. The same applies to the question raised by the NAP on the discussion of the common agricultural policy. I have told my colleagues that there is a time to discuss policies, but that is not when the budget is discussed, which is the instrument for implementing policies. We can therefore discuss — as my Bulgarian colleague wants to do — whether or not there should be a border agency such as the Frontex (European Border and Coast Guard Agency), as we can discuss what agricultural policy should be, but it is not the time for the budget to be reached — and the only thing we have to discuss here is how much we put in place for the implementation of each of the policies — that we will re-examine the policy fund. The budget is not the time to discuss the policy background, it is the time to finance the discussion that has been made in a timely manner, under the penalty of sacrificing ourselves and not achieving the fundamental objective. With regard to climate change, Portugal is very comfortable in this debate, as we were the first country in the world to take on the objective that the European Commission is now proposing and I hope that the Council will adopt, because last week in Madrid there were still two Member States of the European Union who did not accept the commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050. With regard to the issue of targets for 2030, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, what we have on our roadmap for carbon neutrality are reductions between 45 and 55 by 2030, those targets which must also be taken over by the European Union as a whole. With regard to the report which has been quoted here, I believe that you and the Members. Members have read a lot of news, but no one has read the report itself. First, the report refers to the 2017 data and it itself explains the reasons why Portugal obtained those data, which result from 2017 having been the tragic year of fires, following successive years of severe drought. Therefore, natural causes have nothing to do with politics. As far as politics is concerned, I suggest that you read pages 16 and 17 of the report, where Portugal is placed in the top 3 countries with the best climate policy, one of the most important criteria discussed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, as far as politics is concerned, on pages 16 and 17 of the report, Portugal is even placed on the top 3 of the countries that have better climate policies. As for the results, as the report explains, the result of the 2017 fires and the result of several years of severe drought, effectively, the results were more negative than in previous years. Therefore, with regard to nature, the news was bad; with regard to the policies followed by this government, the news is good. I would say even more, to be correct and fair: not only are the policies of this government, are the policies that the country has been pursuing for more than a decade, with a small interval, in which renewables have been diabolized, electric mobility has been abandoned and the concerns with climate change will translate into the liberalisation of the eucalyptus and other pearls that the right has reserved for us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the time when it was thought that, by banning the use of tie in summer, climate change was combated. [[PS laughter and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] Fortunately, this was not the rule in the country and so Portugal should be proud that its capital is the first city in southern Europe to be Green Capital from 1 January next year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u237	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u238	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... fruit of 10 years of policies pursued in the city of Lisbon for the sake of the environment and to combat climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-10.u239	We have thus reached the end of this second point and with it our agenda today. Tomorrow we will have a plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m., whose agenda is composed of many points. The first point consists in the general assessment of Law Projects Nos 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of lawyers in relation to parenthood or serious illness by amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 109 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — regulates labour relations in counseling and 113 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Gives lawyers the prerogative to suspend judicial proceedings in which they are agents or informal defenders in the event of serious illness or exercise of parental rights. of the second point is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 83 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a truly national and territorially fair mobility support programme, 102 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the effective implementation of the Tax Reduction Support Programme ( PART) throughout the national territory, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Effective promotion of collective transport throughout the national territory and 107 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government study and develop conditions for increased deductions of transport charges to taxpayers resident in inland territories. The third point refers to the general assessment of Bill Nos 3 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Nationality Act and the Rules of Procedure for Registers and Notary ( Nineth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and thirty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -a / 2001 of 14 December ), 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( Amends the ninth Act No 37 / 81 of 3 October ), 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( Ninth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality ) and 126 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ). of the fourth point is the general debate of Bill Nos 37 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to promote durability and guarantee of equipment to combat programmed obsolescence, 116 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, 119 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the guarantee period for the sale of mobile consumer goods ( Second amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April ) and 120 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Increased durability and expansion of the guarantee for movable and immovable property ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 08 April ). The fifth point is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to extend ADSE to all Portuguese, whether or not they have a working link to the State and 92 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the sustainability of ADSE. In the sixth and final point we will generally have the debate of the Lein Projects 52 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Privilege the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, except the decree of this regime to cases of child abuse, neglect and domestic violence, 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Alter the Civil Code, establishing the principle of alternate residence of the child in the event of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of the marriage of the parents, 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The seventh amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, in order to clarify that the court may determine the alternate residence of the child with each of the parents whenever such corresponds to the best interests of the minor, 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of the alternative residence of minors, in the event of divorce of judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage and 114 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Civil Code, providing for the alternative residence regime of the child in regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. It's a vast work programme we'll have tomorrow afternoon. I wish everyone a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
