ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. This session is expected to be long, since on our agenda there are eight points for discussion. Before that, however, we will still hear, with the active solidarity of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, the reading of the various and numerous dossiers. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u2	Mr President, very late to all of us and to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Harmonizes and simplifies certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade by transposing Directives ( EU ) Nos 2018 / 1910 and 2019 / 475, which falls to 5. the Commission. Law No. 164 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the exemption from payment of the multi-purpose medical certificate of disability and determines the deferral of the allocation of the social inclusion benefit from the date of issue of the multi-purpose disability certificate, which falls to 9. the Commission, 166 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishment of a period for effective access to the financing of the acquisition of support products by persons with disabilities which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or connection to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of reporting obligations ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 170 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the extension of the national network and amends the regime of competence, organization and functioning of peace judges ( second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July 2001 in the wording given to it by Law No 54 / 2013 of 31 July 2013 ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 171 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 174 / XIV / 1. a ( BE, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV ) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August. Parliamentary assessment No 5 / XIV / 1 was also included in the Bureau. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 169 / 2019 of 29 November amending the regulation of activities for the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2019 / 782. The Draft of Deliberation No. 5 / XIV / 1 was added to the Bureau. a ( PAR) — Budget procedure in the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of Resolution Nos 174 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Program of appreciation of health professionals, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 175 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We will then enter the agenda, which today has eight points, including the first of a current debate required by the PSD, under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on « RTP — Public Service ». I would ask that there be some silence in the Chamber and that the ladies and gentlemen be silenced. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing are feeling or, then, leaving, so that we can continue our work. [[Pause.]] I believe that the necessary conditions are now being met. To open the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Something serious is happening in the RTP and something serious is happening in the government. RTP is the public service operator of Radio and Television of Portugal, has a unique history, built over decades, and an irreplaceable heritage in the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u5	But you've already wanted to get rid of her!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u6	The Public Radio and Television Service Concession Agreement imposes the principles of pluralism, rigor, exemption and independence of information on RTP. It is the fulfilment of these obligations set out in the contract that we all expect from the RTP, but it was with the program Friday at 9 that the first and well-founded doubts of the PSD about the ability of the RTP to hold their independence, in the face of sectoral interests and political power arose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u8	The story is told in a few words: RTP exhibits, eight years ago, the Friday at 9, a public investigation and reporting program of relevant public interest cases, led and conducted by journalist Sandra Felgueiras. Now, to the surprise of many, this programme was suspended last September. The coincidences were then added: this program had never been suspended at the pre-election time. It was known by the Information Directorate that the theme was the lithium scandal in Montalegre. The first post-ferior issue of the programme resumed two serious cases of alleged undue favor in business, with action or omission by the Government, already with the intervention of the Public Prosecutor, and which were causing blatant embarrassment to the PS and the Government. More: the program was ready to be edited and displayed in September and we were only a few days away from the legislative elections. Finally, it was unexpectedly resumed following the electoral act. Right then, and by the voice of its President, the PSD expressed surprise and doubt about the real foundations of this suspension of the programme, thus triggering the parliamentary hearing of the most direct speakers in this nebula episode. These hearings, which everyone can review on the canal of Parliament, proved to be demolition for the Directorate of Information and for the Board of Directors of the RTP, since it was clear that the justifications on the date given for the suspension had no basis. Thus, the program could have been displayed, but it was even frozen and the silent journalist, without any perceptible criterion, reinforcing the suspicion of political freight to the PS and the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u9	PSD doesn't know what he's talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u10	At the same time, and even more serious, the appearance of Secretary of State João Galamba in the programme is carried out through the Information Directorate, in a censorable introduction of the ministerial offices to the Information Directorate and the Information Directorate in the programme in question. From here, everything breaks down, with serious accusations by the media, and the Information Directorate is obliged to present the resignation, in a climate of clique between journalists, RTP officials and the Board of Directors, as there is no memory. And the government, which has been so intrusive in these episodes, disappears from the scene and who has the effective guardianship and should react, the Minister of Culture, refers to a silence that does not help, solves or reassures anyone. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u11	Mrs. Members, we cannot live with the suspicion of unlawful political interference in the media, much less in the public radio and television station. When we specifically talk about journalism and free and exempt information, who passes the check doesn't send! In the case of RTP, the person passing the check is the government and the payer is the Portuguese. But RTP is not from the government. It is clear today that if the information contained in the programme had been disclosed during the electoral period, it would have been harmful to the image of the Government and the PS, with the inherent electoral impact. But someone didn't want to! These episodes stain the image of the government, by action of the Secretary of State Galamba and by omission of the Minister of Culture, but not only. Also for RTP this set of events is serious and unfair. It is serious because they cause recognised and relevant reputational damage, compromising, in the view of Portuguese, the quality, seriousness and rigour of journalism that occurs in the RTP. The RTP Code of Ethics has been deformed and ignored by some of RTP's highest managers and, as always, the example has to come from above and has not come. [[PSD applause.]] But these events are also unjust. They are unfair to the 1600 workers of the RTP, especially to the journalists of the RTP who wear the public service shirt every day, in the commitment to the mission and the requirement that public television must have with their audience, having found, in the Information Directorate and in the Board of Directors, the source of the problems and not the source of solutions, balances and common sense. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD was right when, even before the elections, it raised this issue, it was right when it called to Parliament the people directly responsible for the facts, it was right for the growing doubts and inadequacies that each reply suggested, it was right when it claimed that something strange and serious happened at the RTP and was right when it addressed this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u12	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u13	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, he lost the public service, lost journalism, lost ethics and lost the RTP Code of Ethics. The PSD, responsibly...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u14	Mr Deputies, from now on, the time to use will be cut off in the time it is allocated to the PSD for the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u15	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD will continue to pay attention to the choices, people and free and free compliance criteria of the public service of RTP. Our democracy also depends on that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u16	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, wrote to ask for clarifications, Mr. Antonio Filipe, of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u17	Mr President, Mr Paulo Rios, was interested to understand what the PSD wants with this debate. Is it, in the face of a conflict situation existing in the information of RTP, come to put the harvest? It shouldn't be! It should not be because it is not the competence of this sovereignty body to be collided with the editorial independence of a public or private communication body. Well, then what is it for? Is it to criticize an information management that no longer exists, which has already resigned? It shouldn't be either. It doesn't make sense, and at the moment, it wouldn't have objected. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] So what's it for? Mr. Paulo Rios says that it is to question the government about the absence of government intervention. But it was not the PSD and the CDS who, on a proposal from former Minister Poiares Maduro, approved here a statute for the fully armoured RTP as regards the impossibility of interference by the Government, insofar as the entire strategic orientation of the company would be defined by an Independent General Council and absolutely bulletproof? [[PSD protests.]] And they wanted exactly to end with any possibility of interference from the government in the RTP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u18	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u19	And the honourable Member is now here to criticize the government for not intervening? So, the PSD wants the government not to intervene or does the government want to intervene? It was interesting to understand exactly what the PSD wants with this debate, because it is important indeed to safeguard a public service of conflicts that do not serve anyone — do not serve the public service, do not serve the public, do not serve the information in Portugal. Much less concerned, in this regard, is the fact that the PSD or the Assembly of the Republic are contributing to aggravating situations which are already serious, as is known in the public service. What is extraordinary is that the PSD comes here to demand that the government intervene. It is important to know what the PSD wants the government to do. It is worth knowing, since the PSD has promoted this debate, what it wants with it. Do you want the government to appoint an information directorate? It shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u20	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u21	Mr President, I was interested in defending the public service — and the CFP has already presented a draft law on the statute of public service, which one day we will discuss—know exactly what the PSD believes the government should do about the independence of the RTP. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u22	To reply, Mr Paulo Rios has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u23	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I think you will not deny that the issue is current, is relevant and that one of the competences of the Assembly is precisely to monitor a set of bodies and the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u24	I recall that when the PSD called for these hearings, all parliamentary groups voted in favour because they thought they were relevant. And when the PSD asked for further hearings, this proposal was adopted unanimously. Therefore, you may think that this matter is not relevant, does not matter at all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u25	Don't! That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u26	...but we understand that it is very relevant and that it has to be discussed here and now. And the one who brought the subject to debate was us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u27	Irrelevant is your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u28	We want to know what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u29	What does PSD want? It's just paleio!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u30	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The resignation of the Director of Information of the RTP takes place following two decisions contested by the Board of Editors and by the plenary of RTP journalists, one on the suspension of the Sixth Programme at 9 — and the Committee on Culture and Communication has already heard the speakers and recorded the contradictory versions on the subject - and another on the decision by the Director of Information to make contact with an entity under journalistic investigation of the Sixth Programme at 9. The Board and the plenary of journalists criticized these decisions in terms that led to the resignation of the Director of Information. Here, the debate is no longer about a programme or an Information Directorate. The Friday at 9 is, and continues to be, RTP's only regular programme of journalistic research, issued more than seven years ago. And, therefore, let us save ourselves — to ourselves, Mr President. Members, and, above all, the RTP — the most incendiary inventives or calls for exits and entry into the programming grid. This is a bad terrain and that is not what is expected of the Assembly of the Republic. Parliament has a more demanding obligation: to discuss the conditions of independence of the public service that we all pay. For the Left Block, the responsibility for the development of this essential service is ours, it is democratic representation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u33	The public radio and television service plays a key role in democracy, especially in the current crisis in the press. RTP has the function of establishing standards of reference and quality, ensuring pluralism and credibility of information accessible to all. But when we look at the years since 2014 we have seen that, under the slogan of de-governmentization, the PSD/CDS Government has opened a huge void of responsibility, in which Parliament is away, the protection of the Ministry of Culture refers to the Independent General Council ( CGI ) and it, at the end of the line, always agrees with the President of the Board of Directors. The RTP was not privatized, as the PSD wanted, but a CGI was given the appointment of the Board of Directors, the evaluation of compliance with the strategic plan and the supervision of internal life in the public service. looking at these years, the CGI just enthroned a president, the former PSD deputy Gonçalo Reis, and went up. The CGI is in! Public responsibility was absent and the result is in sight. The CGI has never seriously dealt with any of the company's structural problems, whether the changes in the Board of Directors in 2018, or the harmful protocol concluded with the Portuguese Football Federation, or the government's resistance to the process of regulating precariousness, is the current crisis we are discussing today. The newspaper's own plenary stressed that total worthlessness of the CGI.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u35	And it was only yesterday at 11 p.m. that the CGI woke up from its long torpor, in a statement to require the next Directorate of Information continuity with the previous and mechanisms of unity and consistency of the information structure. So I ask the party that was going to save RTP from the government pope: Mr. PSD Members, what does the CGI mean, the guardian of independence, in these obscure lines « to safeguard the unity and consistency of the information structure of the next Information Directorate »? What balance does the PSD of your model make? What balance does the PSD of the CGI model deresponsibility precisely those who pass the check? [[Ask the Secretary of State!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u36	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira said who pays the order! Is that what you're talking about? But the gentlemen. Members of the PSD, the PSD Government and the CDS have taken care of daily intervention on the future of public service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u38	... delivering it to a dark, unscrutinised entity that today fully shows its futility. Journalism, and from the public service of RTP, can and should be discussed by all and also by Parliament. The Left Block, on the days already in 2018 dedicated to the public service of radio and television, advanced a few lines in this reflection. RTP should promote a core of research journalism that is able to respond to this type of crisis in the national media panorama. Instead of labels, RTP should produce a style book that constitutes internal and external reference and should eradicate the precariousness of its frames as an essential condition of the professional autonomy of journalists. But this debate cannot postpone another, which is the debate of the governance model of the RTP and the necessary extinction of the CGI, a condition for the independence of the public service and for a clear relationship between the State and this public enterprise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u40	The appointment and removal of the President of the Management Board shall be made in Parliament, in the opinion of the RTP Opinion Council and supported by solid and transparent criteria, from applications accompanied by a strategic public service programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u41	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u42	I will finish, Mr. President. Whoever pays, he must send. And it is Parliament that must vote and decide. The autonomy of RTP is only possible if the accountability of those who hold it is guaranteed. And who holds it is the State, who responds to these interests is the Assembly of the Republic and it is up to us to answer for them and not to make debates without subject matter, as the PSD seeks to do today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u43	Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u44	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: While listening to Mr. Paulo Rios, I almost saw the ghost of the famous Mr. Calisto Elói de Silos and Benevides fly over the room, the fallen angel of our parliamentary history, invented by Camilo. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this debate not to clarify the important issue, but, if possible, to the vocabularies, the zaragata, the inter-party guerrillas at the lowest level and to provoke, provoke, provoke — in fact, the art for which there is a delay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why is this happening now? Is it just the question of campaign, where there are no ideas and there is a personal guerrilla led to the extreme? It doesn't seem like much to us. It doesn't seem like much to us. I believe that this is part of the decline of PSD to hell of traulite politics and fake news trade. This began in the election campaign when Dr. Rui Rio did not resist abetting his thesis that we should be against, including, the so-called 'tobacco justice' and resolved, in this case—it was no other case! — to make a public accuser, a judge and even a high court.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u45	That's all I needed now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u46	And he proclaimed, urbi et orbi—and his followers followed - obviously - what we have just heard from Mr. Paulo Rios' mouth: a cry of inversities. It seems, in fact, one of those Spanish dolls in which she carries her back and says « my house is your home», i.e., always repeats exactly the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must not allow ourselves to be dragged on this subject, because this debate is extremely serious. How dare the PSD, which approved a governance regime of the RTP, a model of governance, at a time when Minister Miguel Relvas was run by the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u47	That's not what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u48	...and gave place to Minister Poiares Maduro, because the project of Miguel Relvas...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u49	And the Rabbit Pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u50	...was privatising RTP without more or less... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and without having the minimum of historical coherence—it is not the maximum, it is the minimum of historical coherence! — to appear here, suddenly, to support the theory that Parliament should intervene directly in the internal life of the RTP, the public service, and even to express convictions that no PSD member had the courage to do when we heard the Information Directorate here? Some of the gentlemen dared to throw the first stone to journalist Flor Pedroso when we heard it live in 1. the Commission? Nobody! And it was cowardice? Oh, my God! Maybe, in some cases. But I admit that, in most cases, it was because there was nothing to say, as the Independent General Council stressed yesterday and as the Board of Directors had previously stressed. It's a common judgment. Any of you dare throw the first stone at the Persistent Directorate? Do any of you dare to throw the first stone at the Directorate that went through a complex electoral process in an absolutely exemplary way? Do you have any complaints about this? Don't! They have a 'intrigued' that was planted by the gentlemen,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u51	... developed by you and now traded by you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What worries us more about this? We are more concerned about the void of ideas. The void of ideas! It is that your ideas have to be hidden, and they are in the electoral programme. I went to consult the electoral programme — there you can get to the electoral programme, which is presented in a well-placed PDF — and there is your proposal: « Maintaining the logic of a generalist channel, it is important to review the role of the remaining channels by integrating them into an ambitious project of a global RTP, capable of spreading cultural, informative and sporting content worldwide». My lords, this is a channel omelet. [[PS laughter.]] This means the extinction of existing channels and the reduction of RTP to two channels, in fact, the destruction of public service in its diversity, in its ability to reach different audiences. And this is said with a huge lack of frontality. What a lack of frontality! Portugal Global is a brand that already belongs to AICEP ( Portugal's Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ). If you want to extinguish RTP, say it face-to-face!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u52	Mr. José Magalhães, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u53	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that they do not have us to fill up the role of the Assembly and to violate the governance model of the RTP! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u54	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u55	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD/CDS Government has taken legislative measures, which have already been remembered here, to ensure the independence and exemption of the RTP, all the more relevant because, in the case, we speak of a public television station, we speak of a public television service. Specifically, in 2014, the already mentioned Independent General Council was created, to which the Government of then transferred virtually all the powers that the guardian had over the public operator, except for the financing. The objective of the creation of the CGI was in the words of Minister Poiares Maduro, and I quote « to reduce the risk of governmentization of RTP and also the perception of this governmentisation », because « it is harmful to the company at various levels », because « it is a situation that contaminates a permanent political debate on RTP, conditions the internal management of the company and the exercise of protection ». In other words, the PSD/CDS government has focused its work on a concern about the independence of RTP. To say the same about the PS government is dubious and there are several examples. So I'm referring to two examples. First, the memorandum of understanding signed between the Portuguese Football Federation and the Governing Council of the RTP, in 2019, which prompted a request for information by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Finance and led the President of the Independent General Council to denounce, and I quote, « attempts at public erosion of the model of management and violations of the limits it imposes, which is undesirable for the stability of the company ». Second, and more recently, the case of lithium and the Sixth Programme at 9, which, the PSD requirement, was the reason for hearings in the Committee on Culture. On this issue, according to journalist Sandra Felgueiras, the Office of the Secretary of State João Galamba will have been contacted several times to provide clarifications and to integrate the first edition of the program Friday at 9 am on this topic but which he has refused to answer. I would like to quote Mrs Jornalista : « In the following programme, after having answered that he had nothing to say, Mr Secretary of State made a contact via advisors to the Information Directorate and she told me to bring him to the programme». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not up to the CDS, as it should not be any party in this Parliament, to interfere in editorial or internal RTP information issues. This would be an interference of political power over a media agency, precisely what concerns us, and which today motivates this debate. Moreover, as they have said here and it is public knowledge, the matter has already been dealt with at home, but it is up to the CDS and the whole Parliament to examine RTP's activity in order to ensure its exemption and independence. For this purpose, hearing mechanisms are planned here in Parliament, of which we will never abdicate or abdicate and in which we will exercise our duty of supervision. For the CDS, one thing is clear and vital: RTP is a public television and should never be used to be a state television. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u56	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: RTP is a public company that includes radio and television stations, and these services are available to millions of people every day and throughout the world. These numbers testify to the importance of this media for the dissemination of Portuguese culture and as a contribution to the feeling of unity of all Portuguese people throughout the world. The independence and sustainability of the media are one of the most pressing problems of resolution in the days ahead. It is Mr President of the Republic himself stressing the importance of this issue by saying that "it is time to seek solutions that guarantee freedom and democracy, strengthening social communication, classic and new, all with general and abstract incentive measures and therefore insufficient with the manipulation of political power, and with parliamentary approval, but coming in time". For the NAP, independence and sustainability are two inseparable elements in a situation marked by the worrying financial situation, transversal to all media in Portugal. These, when not alerted, lead to cases of financial insufferability and breakdown of the service, which only weaken the public service, such as the inevitable situation of precariousness and unemployment in the sector. However, all reality has the reverse of the medal, and bad news always represents and will always represent good news for others, depending on the angle of analysis. We then come to the problem of concentration in the media sector, in which a small group of individuals, commonly linked to private interests, control much of the editorial groups of the media, which may affect or affect their independence. This phenomenon has been studied in other countries, bringing to the collation the specific case of the United Kingdom, where it was concluded that there is not even room to talk about free or independent means, since all are held by a handful of large editorial groups or controlled by individuals or boards closely related to private interests. In order to have a practical idea of what this issue of excessive concentration means, Britain has one of the most concentrated media environments in the world. Only three companies dominate 83 % of the national circulation of newspapers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u58	Here are four!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u59	... five companies account for 80 % of the scope of the national newspaper trade mark and two companies have almost half of all commercial analogue radio stations. However, this excessive concentration endangers the freedom and independence that is expected from the media, not forgetting that journalism is not reduced to the duty to inform, and it is up to it to examine the powers of various orders, monitoring them and carrying out their responsibilities. What has led us to a clear discussion: should there be or should there not be a public radio and television service? Should the State support these services financially? And how? By analysing the European framework, in most cases funding is directed to public bodies, and it mainly comes from a public service broadcasting licence rate, i.e. a rate that people pay to receive the radio and television broadcasts or have the equipment needed for their reception. This is what happens in Portugal, with the existence of an audio-visual rate integrated in electricity bill and paid by the citizens'universe, which is used to finance the public television service provided by RTP. The counterpoint outlined so far is a demonstration of the importance of RTP as a means of public social communication, impermeable to private interests and entirely or mostly based on editorial criteria related to public interest. However, in recent weeks there have been known worrying data related to this subject, not forgetting the relevant content of the statements of journalist Sandra Felgueiras at the hearing in the Committee on Culture, which adds the recent news of the resignation of the Director of Information of RTP, Maria Flor Pedroso, and which create in the spirit of the Portuguese doubts related to potential pressures on the Directorate of Information of RTP, pressures these aiming at changes to the editorial line of a television programme, obsting its early transmission, and which would address a controversial issue in the eve of the legislative elections of this year. In spite of this particular case, it seems to us that the focus of the issue is the necessary and fundamental independence of public television, and it is extremely important to ensure the non-governmental interference with the media in order to secure one of the most basic pillars of democracy: freedom of the press and the suitability of the institutions. The mere doubt is, in itself, detrimental to public service. Given that freedom of the press represents a vector with constitutional consecration and that the RTP should follow a free and independent programme line based solely on the premise of the public interest, and despite what has been said here today, it is important to obtain the Government's commitment in this regard as a guarantee of the independence of any media. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u60	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by registering that, in relation to very specific questions which the CFP put to the PSD in this debate, the answer was zero. The PSD chose not to respond, but it would be important if you had responded so that we knew exactly what you want with this debate. Mrs. Members, the public service of radio and television is one of the pillars of Portuguese democracy as a guarantor of plurality and diversity, of defense and dissemination of Portuguese language and culture, but also of valorization of education, science, research, arts, innovation and sport, but also as a guarantor of social and territorial cohesion, in addition to the role it plays in the communities of migrants and immigrants. in a time when there are movements in the private sector of social communication, of economic groups that buy and sell media, make mergers, close titles, fire journalists and other professionals and at a time when the concentration of the ownership of the media in a handful of economic groups with increasing presence of foreign capital and private bank in the shareholder structure, at this time assumes even more importance the defense of the public radio and television service in our country that throughout its history has suffered different attacks, of which two attempts to privatize, the last by the hands of PSD and CDS, and that the struggle of the workers of RTP has prevented it from being realized. The defense of public radio and television service is not compatible with attempts to discredit and strangle RTP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u63	For this path they do not count on the PCP. The defence of the public radio and television service, whose existence and responsibility of the State are provided for in our Constitution, is the guarantee of the human, technical, material and financial means so that the RTP can perform its functions independently of political power and economic power. The defense of the public radio and television service requires the appreciation of RTP professionals, in their salary aspect, but also in ensuring the effective link to that company. It is for this fight that they will have the PCP: to strengthen the RTP and to ensure that it has all the conditions to provide a public service with the quality and extent to which all citizens in our country are entitled. It was precisely in this sense that the CFP delivered a legislative initiative that reflects the concerns we have and presented solutions for strengthening the RTP, to ensure better conditions for the fulfilment of the public service, with a wider and more plural participation in responsibilities of supervision and internal supervision of the fulfilment of the obligations of the public service radio and television. This will be the intransigent defense that the PCP will make of the public radio and television service in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u64	For an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Like what has already been done here, I begin to wonder why the PSD wants this debate and why the PSD convenes a debate for plenary on RTP, apparently on the RTP Information Directorate. Above all, I wonder why the PSD wants to call on the Government for this debate, because, in fact, as has already been said, the Government, in accordance with the law passed by the PSD/CDS Government, which is so well explained here by Mrs Deputy of the CDS, has no power — no power! — in relation to the RTP, unlike Parliament, which has exercised, and as it has done, in particular in committee, the powers conferred on it by law. So I cannot answer the question « why did the PSD call this debate? And the PSD did not answer the question that the CFP Parliamentary Group asked. I imagine we're going out of here without the answer to this question, because, in fact, the answer doesn't matter to the PSD, nor does the PSD want to give it. I also wonder, like what other Members here have done, if what is at stake will not once again create a situation of destabilization, of interference, this, yes, the interference of the PSD, in the RTP situation, to discredit and denigrate RTP and create conditions to defend its privatization again, as it has already defended in the past and as I would certainly like to do again in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here will probably be the answer to that question, but we are probably going out of here without it, because, as Mr. José Magalhães said, there is no frontality on the PSD side to take whatever they want for RTP. It was important for today's debate to come out of this answer, but it will not come out! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] With regard to this issue, I want to make it very clear in this House that this government has never defended the privatization of RTP, not even any of its channels. You've never defended or you'll never defend! This is a very important brand and reveals the difference between the PSD and the government : the PSD has in the past defended the privatization of RTP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is another thing that makes a very good difference to the government's PSD. unlike the PSD, we do not interfere in the RTP, we do not have any debate about the Information Directorate of the RTP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u66	The PSD, in its full internal campaign, brings to the debate in plenary a discussion on the RTP Information Directorate. You notice, it's not even about the Board of Directors, it's about the RTP Information Directorate! It is extraordinary how the PSD can accuse the Government of interference when it promotes a debate to talk about, see, the RTP Information Directorate! It is extraordinary how the PSD can defend one thing and its opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u68	No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not intervene, and no, Mr. Members, the government has no guardianship, as you want, because you in time approved a governance model that removed any possibility from the government to interfere at the level of the Board of Directors or the RTP Information Directorate. You want to discuss the governance model? So do it in parliament and we'll be here to discuss it. But do not accuse the government of doing what you do with this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u69	If the gentlemen. Members want to sign up, I would ask you to do so in due course, because I find that there are still parliamentary groups that have time to intervene. [[Pause.]] With no further inscriptions, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u70	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members : I confess that I felt the temptation, in the face of Mr. José Magalhães' intervention, to let him even give up what he said. I deserved your intervention! If that is what the Socialist Party has to say in a debate of this importance, then it deserved to be condemned to that intervention, which was zero! I pointed to the problem and Mr. José Magalhães spent time talking about my finger. I was hoping to hear from you an absolute denial. There have been accusations and facts made here concerning which I would like to have heard that « it is a lie » and « it did not happen ». Mr President, I repeat as an example the behaviour of the PSD on this issue, because from the very beginning it is a matter of going to read again, the PSD asked people what was going on. What happened was that the answers were worse every day. It's not our fault! When you come here to make such a fun speech on such an important subject and you cannot deny what has been said, then it is difficult to discuss. More than that: Mr President, in the defence of Mr Journalist — and I would like to make it clear that nothing moves against anyone, we are in favour of RTP, in the exercise of a right and a duty that is ours — that no one has pointed out anything. Mr President, do not push for me, because if we were to read what the RTP journalists have said to each other in recent days, I don't even know if the parliamentary hygiene supports it! ...The charges are very serious, but they're not ours. We limit ourselves to saying that this is serious, it is necessary to stop. While it is said here that nothing happens, and the Minister also says so, we have 1600 RTP workers who are listening to this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u71	I hope they're working!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u72	... you know what's happening and you know it wasn't the PSD who invented this issue. The PSD raised the issue and wanted to know more, because it is our right and it is our duty. Therefore, they said that the PSD invented this debate means that they did not understand what happened. Moreover, when the Board of Directors, which has always blindly supported this Directorate of Information, makes a statement of those, it is perceived that it is a declaration of war to the journalists of the RTP who remained. And those are the ones you're going to have to understand. The PSD wants RTP to work with independence and exemption—that is all we want—and what we see is that every time we ask what's going on, the matter gets worse. I'm not responsible for the questions, but you are responsible for some answers. What I would have heard from you was: « It is not true », « there was no interference» and « it did not happen ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u73	Wasn't it said? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u74	Mr Paulo Rios, your intervention has prompted a request for clarification. You will continue to be the honourable Member to close the debate, but you have a request for clarification from the PS Parliamentary Group in time handed over by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u75	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u76	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u77	Mr President, it is to a point of order for the Bureau. You said a few minutes ago that Mr Paulo Rios' intervention would be the last intervention to close the debate. You reopen the debate and thus contradict yourself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u78	Mr President, I am very sorry, but, as you know, interventions may have requests for clarification and then the answer will end the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u79	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u80	Mr President, this debate does not include the closing figure. There is a tradition that the party that requires these debates is the last to speak, and it will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u81	Mr President, of course, any intervention has the obligation, has the right, has the possibility to raise a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u82	That's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u83	The question is not there, the question is where you said, minutes ago, that was the intervention that would close the debate. But you suddenly invented a regiment figure, a different way to close the debate, contradicting yourself. And that cannot be accepted, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u84	Mr President, my interpretation is that the PSD will continue to close the debate, even if there is a response to a request for clarification. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr José Magalhães, of the PS. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u85	Mr. President,... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u86	You may continue, Mr. You don't have to do that theatrical silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u87	Nor does he ask for a grave silence in this matter, Mr President. I understand that it is unpleasant for Mr. Paulo Rios to have anyone contradicting him. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u88	Moreover, anyone who prevents him from fully interpreting what has happened here, in view of everyone, as is clear — will appear on the canal of Parliament. But did I ever accept that it was true what the PSD brought to us here and, indeed, did it bring to the Commission several times? Oh, my God! On the contrary. I said that the PSD planted fake news and then rode up, with its President in front, in the view of winning vows, which is the most abject and exactable thing that can be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u89	Try that! Try that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u90	But no, for the honourable Member, it is not enough. I wanted you to come here to corroborate that and give you a change. Now, our bench does not change anyone's provocations, nor the PSD ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, it is good to learn and it is good to get used to not being worth provoking. Now, let me ask you one thing: Ladies and gentlemen insist that Mrs. Candida Pinto come here for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u91	To answer the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u92	To do an autopsy? To do an investigation? To do what, now that the issue is resolved, in a way, ultimately, harmful, reputably, to the company and quite detrimental to its rights as a journalist?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u93	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u94	What do you want?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u95	You've outlived your time. I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u96	For us, this issue is essential, Mr President, and we will say no to any such attempt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u97	They just don't call CGI!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u98	You have the floor to answer and close the debate, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u99	Mr President, Mr José Magalhães, I did not understand very well that clarification is what I wanted. If you had done your homework, you would have looked for the facts that we discussed — we discussed, we did not create them — listening to Mr Journalist's hearing, in which, at minute 55, you see well that I know of color, is described here, as was very well explained by Mrs Deputies of the CDS, exactly what happened, what was the intromission and what was received from the Information Directorate. These facts are reported in this hearing and have not been contradicted or denied. The PSD, I repeat, did not qualify, did not ask for resignation, did not say it was well done or wrong, only asked why. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Sir, it's not worth killing the mailman for not liking the letter. The facts are the facts. We only brought them to the nude, because you hid them! [[PSD applause.]] What happens in relation to RTP is the following: when we began to ask which criterion was to suspend the programme — whatever it is, we would respect it — the answers to the same question were four. That is, the hearing of the Information Directorate was intellectually in need, Mr. The gentleman was there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u100	I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u101	So we did not accept these answers and wanted to understand better. From that point on, it was the unraveling you know. They went with them. Those who did not accept those behaviors were the more than 120 journalists of the RTP, who in plenary accused the Directorate of Information of Disloyalty and of violation of deontological duties. It wasn't PSD either. In fact, I wouldn't even mention it here, but the truth is, when you tell me there's nothing to point out, it's a matter of reading the press. Madam Minister, I would like to say the following: of course, it is not expected from the government that will now change the Board of Directors, much less from the Directorate of Information. What I called upon was that there was at least one word of calm...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u102	Was that why the debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u103	..., a word of appeal to the best solutions, in the sense of RTP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u104	Does the PSD have a word of reassurance?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u105	Of course we do! We all have, Mrs. Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u106	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u107	Mrs. Minister, don't forget something. The importance of this debate for the PSD is much, but for the Minister, it is little. You're here today, dragged by law, otherwise you wouldn't even come here! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u108	Political urgency of the debate? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u109	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Altera to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April establishing the basis for the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr João Azevedo Castro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u110	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: With this initiative, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, on a proposal from the Regional Government, calls upon the Assembly of the Republic to amend the law on the ordination of the national maritime area. The initiative refers to the need for clarification of the concept of « shared management », in respect of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved in this House. In general terms, this initiative deals with the transfer of powers to the autonomous regions of the maritime area under sovereignty or national jurisdiction adjacent to their archipelagos; the participation of the competent central administration services in the prior procedure for the approval of the planning and management plans for the maritime area; the establishment of codecision procedures within the framework of joint or shared management between the central and regional autonomous administration, where the economic and financial arrangements associated with the private use of marine funds are concerned; and the licensing, in the context of the private use of goods in the public maritime domain of the State. The initiative poses the challenge of integrated regulation, considering the international treaties signed by Portugal, covering the territory historically defined in the European continent and the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira, with different characteristics and socio-economic, environmental, cultural and landscape specificities, in respect of and in conjunction with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which gives the autonomous regions the power to participate in the definition of policies relating to territorial waters, exclusive economic zone and contiguous marine funds, in liaison with the organization and functioning of the island autonomous regimes with political-administrative status and self-government bodies, safeguarding the integrity and sovereignty of the State, by conferring the exercise of the other powers, recognised to the Portuguese State, on maritime areas under sovereignty or national jurisdiction adjacent to the archipelago, exercised within the framework of shared management, and which are considered to be relevant to the region. What lies before this Parliament is the way of strengthening and deepening the regional autonomy regime, enhancing its efficiency and specificity. Like the powers already exercised in the earthly environment, there are now also competences for the maritime territory. We recall that this initiative was approved by all the parties with parliamentary seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and that it also corroborates the XXII Constitutional Government Programme, which aims to achieve greater intervention by the autonomous regions in the management and exploitation of the respective maritime areas, through the amendment of the law establishing the basis of the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sea looks forward to a new global socio-economic frontier, assuming itself as a strategy in defining new directions, creating jobs and generating wealth, in an environmental sustainability framework. It is therefore important to organize and prepare the approach of its potential.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u111	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u112	I conclude now, Mr President. It is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will follow this initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u113	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the planning and planning of the national maritime area are fundamental to the economic development of the country as a whole, and must meet the needs of the country, not only in view of the use of our resources, but also in full respect for the environment and biodiversity of the seabed and its ecosystems, ensuring the enjoyment of the current and future wealth of these natural resources in the defence of public interests. The main objective of the proposal under discussion is to increase regional competences in the face of the current situation with regard to the management and management of the national maritime area in the area of influence of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. in this sense, the PCP generally accompanies the bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. However, we cannot fail to mention some concerns. As far as licensing in the private use of goods in the maritime public domain is concerned, we warn that the risk of public interest has become subject to private interests. Even because the grant to private persons implies the ability to monitor the exploitation through the allocation of resources and technical and scientific means which the regions clearly do not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u116	We must also not forget that, in the area of economic and productive activities linked to the sea, we have no doubt that incompatibilities are easily achieved and that the damage results for those who have been there for a long time, as is the case with fishing. Fishing resisted when the governments « turned their backs on the sea», but now there are those who understand that fishing is even more! The fishing needs to be valued and supported and not by trawlers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As regards the necessary phase of research and exploration of the geological resources of the ocean funds, being very important to their knowledge and identification, we believe that the State should have an absolutely decisive position, not only because of their strategic and economic character, but mainly because of the guarantee of the effective ability to ensure their monitoring, protection, safeguards and surveillance, which we have many reservations that autonomous regions are able to ensure in the face of the technical, material and human shortage they encounter. Finally, the surveillance and defence of our waters, that is to say, of our sea, even in matters of surveillance and rescue, which are clearly an aspect which we consider very sensitive, because they represent the full exercise of national sovereignty, involving a great link in the maritime areas under national jurisdiction, between different entities and authorities who, in addition to exercising surveillance and monitoring actions within their respective powers and competences, also cooperate with each other. The CFP understands regional autonomy as a democratic power, suitable for dealing with the specificities of the autonomous regions, as a means of promoting development, as a means of reducing asymmetries and ensuring an equal living conditions in the national context, as a structural power that requires a high sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u117	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is in this sense that the CFP accompanies this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, leaving these concerns to which it is necessary to respond properly. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u119	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Azores Sea is today for Portugal as the wealth of India was at the time of the Discoveries. The Azores Sea is one of the largest assets that Portugal and the region have. Portugal project in the Atlantic, adding -to it relevance and geostrategic position of great importance in the context of Europe. That is also why the Azorians have to have a decisive word about the sea and its management. The Azores must have a central role in the management of the sea and in the exploitation of their resources. The proposed law we are discussing here, adopted unanimously in the Azores Parliament, ensures that the region's own government bodies will have a more decisive role to play in the management of the sea. The PSD, as a founding party of autonomy, and in strict respect for the competences of the state and autonomous regions, could not be left out of the best solution for the country. The current law does not properly safeguard regional competences, since it does not assign the Azores a relevant and active role in the planning and management of the sea. The Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores is very clear: the powers of the State in relation to maritime areas under national jurisdiction adjacent to the Azores are exercised within the framework of a shared management with the Region. The concept of ‘shared management’ must go through the consolidation of decision-making procedures in which there is a real codecision and an effective guarantee that the regional position is duly guarded. Thanks to its geo-strategic location, its extensive exclusive economic zone and the scientific knowledge that its university has acquired, the Azores have an indispensable contribution to make to the country in terms of sustainable management and use of the sea. The State cannot dispense with the maritime experience and tradition of the Azores. Making decisions on the management of the sea, ignoring the knowledge of the Azores in this area is contrary to Portugal's interests. This proposal for an amendment to the law of the sea is still the reply of the Azores to the inaction of the Government of the Republic of the Socialist Party. On 30 April 2016, Mr. Prime Minister visited the Azores and made a written commitment to the Azores to review the current law. More than three years have passed and nothing has been done — zero! in this as in other matters, the Government of the Republic pretends that it gives the Azores and the Socialist Party of the Azores to accept it. But in good time, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has approved this initiative which we are debating here and will end up doing what the Government of the Republic clearly did not have the ability to do. The proposal amending the law of the sea deserves the support of the PSD, which will generally vote in favour of this initiative, the authorship of the legitimate representatives of the entire Azorian people, so that it is worked and refined in the field of expertise. I am in a position to announce that, in this context, the PSD will propose the creation of a working group that, listening to all stakeholders, will make and find the best solution for the country, which will, of course, also be the best solution for the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u121	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Vicente has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block considers that the economy of the sea is crucial for the well-being of the populations of the Autonomous Regions of Azores and Madeira as well as of the Country. Fishing, tourism, renewable energy production, marine ecosystem services or the exploitation of rare metals are currently possible activities to support by the many endogenous resources already identified. These possibilities grow with the expansion of the current continental shelf. All decisions to be taken inevitably have to consider the moment of climate emergency that we live and the needs for mitigation, as well as adaptation of the territories. The rise of the average seawater levels, the increasing acidification of the oceans and the unbridled development of extractive industries destroy the marine biodiversity and undermine the resilience bases of the current climate system. In order to meet these challenges, we need a public policy for an economy based on knowledge, scientific research and technological development, with participatory and democratic foundations that respond to the interests of the local and global population and not to the great economic interests of a handful of multinationals. Therefore, the governing bodies themselves must have an active role in the management of the maritime space adjacent to the Azores and Madeira archipelagos. The amendment of the Law on the Basics of the National Maritime Policy and Management, which we are discussing today, proposed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, thus has all relevance, ensuring that local populations have greater decision-making capacity and influence over their territory. This is a demonstration of the discontent of the Azorian population with this Law, which reads the Azores, placing the archipelago and its administration in a subaltern situation. We recall that this Law, created by the PSD Government and the CDS, was also approved by the Socialist Party. Today, they all have the chance to recognize the error and to restore democratic rights of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. For regulatory reasons, today we are discussing only one of the legislative proposals adopted in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The Left Block approved an alternative proposal in this House, which guarantees a set of environmental safeguards, ending with the current situation that gives priority to the most profitable economic activities and opening the door to the mining industry. For these reasons, we agree with the proposed amendments, but we believe that the proposed law should be improved in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Assunção Cristas from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has sent us a bill that deserves our best attention. And it deserves our best attention because it is not only a sectoral issue of policy for the sea, but also a question of sovereignty. The Autonomous Region of the Azores now defends the same position as it had previously defended, when the Basic Law on the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area was passed in this same Chamber. It happens that at that time this Law was passed by a majority of more than two-thirds of the Members of this Parliament, where the PSD and the CDS were present — at the time being part of the Government — but also the Socialist Party, in a work of great cooperation and institutional loyalty, which was further developed by Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino. At the time, they had the opportunity to pronounce themselves both the Azores and Madeira. And while Madeira had a constructive stance, the Azores showed some discomfort from the beginning and presented proposals, some accepted, others not. It happens that this House can only work within the limits of our Constitution — it must respect it and it must legislate in that framework. The fact is that, subsequently, and following a decree-law on the development of the Basic Law, the Autonomous Region of the Azores intended to send to the Constitutional Court an application for a declaration of unconstitutionality of that same diploma which came following the Basic Law which it now intends to amend. The Constitutional Court has given its opinion and has given reason to this Parliament and does not give reason to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and considers that what had been decided, and well by this Parliament was in accordance with the Constitution. What do we have now? We have the same Autonomous Region of the Azores, defeated by the Constitutional Court, to go on the other hand to amend the basic legislation. It happens that we are deeply convinced that only by changing the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic will it be possible to go in the direction now desired by the Azores. They note that, in strict compliance with the Constitution, the duty of collaboration and also the Regional Statute of the Azores, there are several provisions in the law of the bases which call for a shared and joint work. Article 8 ( 2 ), of course. it explicitly states that the instruments for the sorting of the national maritime space adjacent to the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira can be developed by the bodies of the regional government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u125	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u126	A little strange and contradictory is that Madeira has used this faculty to develop its maritime space planning plan and the Azores have preferred not to do so. They thought it was little and then they chose not to. It is strange that they do not use the powers they have and now want to complain about others, in clear violation of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that I would not be well aware if I did not make this statement to defend that this House has all the legitimacy to work within the framework of densifying the concepts of joint management and shared management, but unless it wishes to change the Constitution - and it can do so - because we are in the ordinary time of revision of the Constitution - it cannot follow up this proposal as it has been presented by the Autonomous Region of the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u127	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u128	I will conclude by saying that, in a purely rational reading, we must say that this proposal violates the Constitution, it offends decisions — not one, but several — of the Constitutional Court and, in my opinion, it is serious because, in time, it may call into question the unity of our country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u129	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to note two important presences and also two important points in relation to this law, no doubt on a fundamental and decisive subject, such as the strengthening of the role that the Autonomous Region of the Azores has to play in defining and exploiting its own resources. Now, one of the first major solutions presented to us is, imagine — as if no one ever expected it! — the creation of a new body. The same as always: more bureaucracy, more places, more people. Now, we're talking about a concert council. Let's see how it will work, who they are, and how their new skills are defined. But the way is always the same, the more bureaucracy. On the other hand, it is a law that gives the Autonomous Region of the Azores more resources and more supervisory powers, but does not give them the resources they need. According to the honourable Member of the CFP, it is a question of giving powers with one hand to then not give the resources they need to exercise them, and this is a law which is a disrespect for the Azores and for the Azores in relation to what they need to do. It's like saying, "Do it, but don't say how; exercise it, but don't have people to exercise money to do it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u131	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u132	I will finish, Mr. President. The arrival could not fail to give notice of a flagrant violation of the Constitution with regard to the powers of management of the planning, management of the maritime space and which may call into question not only the national unit as the spirit of national sovereignty itself. That is why — and I shall finish, Mr President — the Arrival will make every effort to, together with other Members, appeal to the Constitutional Court if this legislative proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u133	We therefore conclude the debate on this bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u134	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u135	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u136	Mr President, because I have given time to this debate and wish to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u137	Yes, but you didn't sign up. It's good that the ladies. Members sign up in advance. But, of course, I give you the floor. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor, therefore, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u138	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. I'll be quick. Mrs. Members, the Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of this bill for two sets of reasons. A first formal set is the conformity, or in this case the lack of it, of the legislation in force with the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, because it does not seem lawful to us that the State should be considered an abuse of power by decree, restricting rights established by law of strengthened value, as in this case. A second set of reasons, perhaps most important, relates to the liberal perspective of aversion to anything that can be seen as too centralist or representing an excessive concentration of power. by restricting the rights of autonomous regions at the level of joint or shared decisions relating to sea planning policy and by eliminating them, in practice, in the case of the issue of securities for the private use of maritime rights, the central State is seeking to retain for itself powers that can and should be delegated, with obvious benefit, to the regions concerned. Finally, there is no doubt that this position, defending a greater delegation of powers to the regions, also means a corresponding requirement for the Autonomous Regions to be voted on and held responsible for the use of these powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u139	Now, yes, we have concluded the debate of the Bill No 179 / XIV/ 4. a, which will be put to the vote at the appropriate time. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petitions Nos 452 / XIII / 3. a ( National Union of Post and Telecommunications Workers ) — Reversion of privatization of TTCs — Posts of Portugal and 611 / XIII / 4. a ( Rogério da Costa Pereira et al.) — They request the development of the necessary procedures for the essential and urgent process of qualified participation of the Portuguese State in the social capital of the CTTs — Correios de Portugal, together with in general the Drafts of Law No 70 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for public control of CTTs and 84 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the regime for the nationalization of TTCs and with Resolution Projects Nos 30 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reversion of privatisation of CTTs and 108 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the quality of the universal public postal service. To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the side of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the first reference in this debate is for the workers of the CTTs, for their representative organisations, for the more than 13 000 citizens who signed these requests in defence of the public control of the postal services. We greet those who do not give up fighting, we welcome the journey of struggle convened for tomorrow, in defense of workers' rights, and we welcome the many struggles that have been carried out by workers, users and populations in defense of the post, of public service of quality, proximity and confidence—not to the service of profit and economic groups, but to the service of the people and the country. in this debate of the petitions under consideration, the first of which presented by the SNTCT ( National Trade Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications ), we wanted to schedule the Bill No. 70 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), which establishes the regime for the recovery of public control of TTCs, because the reality is there every day demonstrating and confirming that this is the increasingly urgent solution for the demanding problems and threats that arise in relation to the company and postal public service. Every year, every month, every week that goes by means of the worsening of these problems and the conditions of the country to deal with them and solve them. Last week in the plenary debate with the Prime Minister, my comrade Jerome de Sousa, Secretary-General of the CFP, confronted the Government with the unsustainable situation of TTCs, the damage to the people and the undisturbed need to reverse that criminal privatization. In response to the CFP, the Prime Minister then referred the decisions on the postal service concession contract, which ends next year. It's the worst approach you can take. Once again, we reaffirm: the problem is not the concession, it is privatization. The PS government passed the previous legislation to escape this issue. The Assembly of the Republic, in order to try to justify its vote against resolutions proposing renationalisation, finally adopted a resolution coming from the PS itself, which recommended that the Government promote the establishment of an informal group, which, inter alia, would consider the consequences resulting from the conclusion of the concession contract. But this report has never been made and much less public, publicly discussed or presented to the Assembly of the Republic. In the face of one of the difficulties called upon by the Government and the PS to resume public control over TCCs, a supposed opposition from the European Union, the CFP raised the issue of the renationalisation of TTCs in the European Parliament and obtained written confirmation that European legislation does not prevent this process. We are available to enable other initiatives aimed, in fact, at contributing to the defence of this proposal for the recovery of TTCs for public management. What we do not accept is the approval of texts that serve only for fun maneuvers, to whiten out responsibilities or to defraud populations, users and CTT workers, and that is what makes the project presented by the PS. You cannot continue to push the problems and postpone the answers. There's a need to act. The recovery of TTCs for public control is a national imperative, of sovereignty, of territorial cohesion and of social justice, and this must happen before the end of the granting of postal public service to TTCs, and therefore the process is urgently needed. This is the purpose of this legislative initiative of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u141	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the thousands of people who have mobilized and continue to mobilize around the defence of postal public service in Portugal, especially workers and workers' organisations, who will be again on a day of struggle tomorrow, and the users who have made such a statement on this matter. The TTCs were, until 2012, a public company providing universal communications service throughout the territory, with high levels of quality and representing a fundamental element of territorial cohesion. Between 2005 and 2012, TTCs made more than EUR 500 million for profit for the State, being considered one of the five best postal services in Europe. Upon arrival in 2013 / 2014, with the government of troika, PSD and CDS, the company was sold to private companies and from there began the problems. Portugal became the fourth country in the European Union in which the universal postal service is totally private, after Holland, Malta and the United Kingdom and, in five years, the postal service became radically worse. Until November 2018, according to ANACOM, 69 post stations were closed in 33 municipalities, providing that the number of stations with closed stations rose to 48, meaning that more than 411 000 inhabitants would be left without a post station. Everything points out that the stations that will be kept open are only those that include the CTT Bank, and so a private commercial bank is made at post office facilities, with postal workers, with operating costs paid by the CTT, in an unheard process of vampireization promoted by the government. The total number of complaints increased by 122 %, resulting from delays, extravagance, distribution failures and poor care. There are many situations where there has been a clear breach of the concession contract, which ends on 31 December 2020, which in our view imposes an attitude on the State to take the CTT group back to its responsibility. A public company of excellence, which gained profit, was destroyed by a political choice with losses to the State. An important network of contacts for thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese has been destroyed, heritage, knowledge and good public service have been destroyed, to give more dividends to the private. In the middle of all this, the worst thing that has happened was privatization, and this option must be urgently reversed. I fear so often without account and we have presented projects in this regard. Public control of fundamental enterprises such as this is not a fact-of-the-art, is even a necessity to ensure access to services that are public, universal and quality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is time to have the courage to move forward towards nationalization of TTCs, to respond to the populations and to react to a very important asset for the State, for territorial cohesion, for the public service at the moment, without half measures or ambiguous texts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u143	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the seriousness of the matter to be dealt with, what happened to the TTCs can be reported as telling a story. A strange and sad story is true, but it can still start with the classic « It was once...». And so it will be! It was once a public company that provided a high-quality public service — in fact, also internationally recognised — that respected its workers and that each year contributed important revenues to the state's coffers. So it was for decades until a government, the PSD and the CDS, would know why—or perhaps even we know— decided to hand this important company over to the private. However, this decision, as we all already knew, including those responsible for its privatization, is having very negative consequences for both the State and the populations and, moreover, the CTT workers themselves. In fact, with the decision to privatize CTTs, the PSD and the CDS have deprived the State of important revenues, so necessary to respond to social policies. at the end of these years, the state has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in dividends and the country has no longer had a public, reliable and safe mail service. The citizens were thus subject to the constant degradation of one of the most important goods of public interest, the postal services, which are a fundamental service for the people, for the development of the country and for territorial cohesion, from the outset because they contribute to mitigating social and economic imbalances. The truth is that, after these six years of privatization, it is now perfectly known that the growing frailization and discharacterization of mail services: hundreds of stations and mail stations have been closed; the buildings have been sold; workers have been fired; precarious links have increased; the routes of each turn of distribution, as well as waiting times for service; there is a lack of money available at the stations for pension payments and other social benefits; there are delays, which already reach two weeks, in the delivery of postal vouchers; the situations in which mail has ceased to be distributed daily has become general. In short, privatization brought less quality, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage, more charges for people and workers saw their working conditions suffer a substantial retreat. In view of this scenario, it is time to rethink not the concession contract, even unceasingly unmet, because this will not strictly resolve anything, but the property of the TTCs itself, because only in this way will it be possible to put an end to or have the public interest at the end of this story. The Greens therefore propose to change the course of this history, bringing the CTTs back to the public sphere, as it is, moreover, claimed by the two petitions that we are also discussing and whose thousands of petitioners, on behalf of the Greens, are taking advantage of to greet. What The Greens propose is to put the public interest at the end of this sad story. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u145	You now have the floor to present the PS draft resolution, Mr Ricardo Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u146	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Today, we are discussing a series of diplomas on the CTTs, the authorship of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, as well as two petitions, which have obtained more than 13 500 signatures. From now on, we greet the petitioners, whom we thank for their presence in the galleries. Like everything in life, this process has had a past, has a gift and will have a future. The past was the sole responsibility of the then PSD Government / CDS, which designed, developed and implemented this model of concession to private CTTs, delivering public responsibilities to privates in an imposing and harmful way to the interests of the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] With this concession contract, we began to see a worrying degradation of the service provided, the closure of stations throughout the country, with municipalities where currently there is no single mail station, as well as a degradation in postal distribution, with a worrying decrease of employees, with serious consequences in the delay of their postal distribution. This was the past we inherited, the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ... with which we have now been working, leading to the presentation of a set of initiatives and efforts both of the PS Government itself, and of ANACOM, a regulatory entity, in order to reverse this state of degradation, which has already led the new President of the CTTs to ensure that no more stations would be closed and that no country council would be left without post station.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u147	So far, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u148	And so they continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u149	It is with this present that the PS Parliamentary Group and the Government have seen and worked on the future, ending the current concession contract only in December of next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is still necessary to await and know the results of the audit conducted by the General Financial Inspection and the recent public consultation, carried out at the request of the current Government to ANACOM, which was launched in order to collect contributions from the sector and society in general and which, above all, matters to know. Therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group, clearly and objectively, considers it necessary to prepare carefully the new legal and regulatory framework to ensure the continuation of a quality postal service and to respond to the needs of the country. With this PS resolution project, we believe that the Government of the PS will define the criteria for assessing the universal public service to be taken into account for the analysis and collection of the model to be implemented in 2021, always with three constant concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u150	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. They guarantee continuity and quality of service, the interests of the country and Portuguese, as well as the more than 6000 workers currently affected by postal service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u152	But nationalization is out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u153	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u154	To conclude, Mr President, quickly, I would like to say that the PS looks at the future with determination, without fears and without wheels, without doors closed and with all the solutions open, but with a clear certainty: that of the importance and responsibility for decision, because, for irresponsible and light decisions, enough have been taken by the PSD and the CDS, which have led us to the state in which we are today. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u155	The answer to this is easy: nationalize!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u156	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD records the initiatives of the Left Block on the nationalization of TCCs and also those of the CPCs and Greens, which, for example in the previous legislature, resubmitted in identical or mitigated forms, initiatives for the control of the capital of TCCs by the State, following two petitions which have entered the Assembly of the Republic, which I take advantage of to welcome the high civic participation. The PSD, faithful to its past and to the responsibilities in the governance of the country, will always be available to discuss this issue without fear or circle,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u159	... because it is not tied to dogmatic or extremist positions, under the pretext of the proclaimed public interest, which is not a monopoly of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u161	So, I wanted to leave some reflections. First of all, the universal public service, historically provided by CTT, public until 2013 and now private, must be provided by the State or may be provided by the private group CTT. Second, CTT is the concessionaire for the provision of universal postal service by the end of 2020. So why and why are left-wing initiatives now, when ANACOM is initiating the evaluation of the concession, which we would say strictly, for future decisions?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u162	All right! [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u163	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake is not the quality of the services provided by the CTT, with the alleged degradation of them, after the privatization that ANACOM has supervised, including imposing tighter rules, are mainly ideological issues on the ownership of the means of production: all public to the left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u164	If it's a public service, it has to be public!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u165	... that does not forgive the boldness of privatization in fulfilling the objectives and measures set out in the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and, before, in the famous PECs signed by the Socialist Party. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u166	What is at stake in the initiatives under discussion is not the end of the current concession managed by the CTT before the end of 2020, because the left-wings were four years in the government and nothing happened about the reversal of privatization! [[It's true! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u167	It was just rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u168	I would have approved our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u169	I had voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u170	It is in this ambivalent context that we can and should also find justification for the recent draft resolution of the Socialist Party. The PS draft resolution is, above all, an opportunistic political response to timing and substance...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u172	... and aims to prepare so much the orientation of the vote in response to left-wing initiatives, to which the PS warms up hope, for political convenience, of the reversal of privatization. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u173	In 2020, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the government considers that the time has come, when the government says 'now it will be', the PSD will be here, where it has always been: in the defence of Portugal and the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u174	Let's see that now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u175	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2020, 500 years are celebrated by the official letter that institutionalized the post offices in Portugal. Regardless of the discussion we are having today, I believe that it is in the opinion of all that the Posts of Portugal are part of the history of our country and, even in the context of the digitization of the economy, they continue to be a fundamental element in the life of all of us. However, by 2020, the current contract for granting universal postal service will end, a crucial issue for the lives of citizens. It is recalled that the privatization of TTCs resulted from the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika, negotiated with the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u177	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u178	... having been the full privatisation of the company in 2014, a political option of the then Government. This model, commonly used in the European Union, has had negative results in Portugal. Although the results of the audit for the functioning of the universal postal service required by the General Inspection of Finance in 2017 are not known by the Assembly of the Republic, there is evidence that the degradation of services is clear. We have seen two symptomatic data of this reality: in May of this year, ANACOM reduced CTT prices due to non-compliance with the quality of service indicators in 2018, stressing that it was the third consecutive year in which there were failures in the service quality goals by the company; at the end of last month, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities warned that in recent years post stations have been extinguished near 50 municipalities in our country. These problems in TTC and universal postal service are, to a large extent, justified by an option of private managers, who have sought to maximize their profit, which results in a decrease in the number of workers, in the secondaryization of postal distribution services and in the isolation of populations in the interior of the country. These data demonstrate that this experimentalism with TTCs has failed. Therefore, on behalf of the public interest, the quality of the universal postal service and the guarantee of citizens' rights, it is urgent for the Government to clarify its position on the subject we are discussing today and not to leave this structural decision for 25. The hour. The NAP defends the maintenance of the current structure of TTCs, but a decisive participation of the State in its social capital should be ensured in order to ensure management that ensures the quality of the service and the safeguarding of the interest of citizens. The operationalization of this participation should ensure financial sustainability and avoid too high costs for the country. We stress that, at such a time as the end of the concession contract, it is important to tell the Portuguese and Portuguese what model to implement from 2021 onwards. The lack of knowledge in this matter is at least worrying. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u179	Mr Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the many petitioners who have brought their demands here and also the parties who have presented projects. I would like to distinguish two issues which have often been dealt with together in this plenary, but which from the point of view of the CDS are different. The first question, which is serious and very relevant, has to do with the degradation of the quality of TTC services, which many citizens have been feeling. This question is very serious, yes! We must debate her and she must be resolved. The second question, unlike this one, is that of the ownership of TTCs. And although many would like to say that the problem of the lack of quality of TTCs has to do with the fact that their property is private and not public, I would like to recall the quality of TTC services before the property is private. If the idea they want to pass is that the operation was perfect, I'm sorry to tell you that we are all Portuguese and CTT customers. [[Protests BE and ENP.]] If the idea that they want to pass is that all public services guarantee quality, perhaps I will have to remember, for example, what happens to the General Deposit Box, the General Deposit Box counters or the commissions charged by the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u182	That, coming from the CDS, it's not worth much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u183	There, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are blowing up, they are no longer concerned about property and it is no longer property the problem! The problem, in this case, is the quality of the service and not the property of the service. [[Protests by the MEP of BE Isabel Pires and the MEP of PEV José Luís Ferreira.]] Therefore, with regard to all initiatives which show concern for the quality of the service and which propose measures to do so — and, if so, there is one of the PSs — of course we have all the opening up. As for all those who think that everything that is private is bad and that what is public is good, I am sorry, but reality lies to you and we do not give to this petition. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u184	Universal services must be public!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this debate. The initiatives under discussion will be voted on in due course. We will move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 545 / XIII / 4. a (Luís Miguel Machado Figueiredo et al.) — They request the opening of a parliamentary investigation on the use of the support provided to victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande. The Bureau is waiting for Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen to speak. If they do not exist, we will move on to the next point. [[Pause.]] There is already a first inscription, but the Bureau is still waiting for more inscriptions. Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 12,000 petitioners who have signed this petition, in which it is requested that a parliamentary inquiry be opened concerning the support granted to the reconstruction of the burning houses in the tragic fires of Pedrogon. It is not enough to have been victims of four decades of right-wing policy by the PS governments, PSD and CDS, which have resulted in clearly visible structural deficits in the reduction of the agricultural area, in successive closures of public services and in the growing desertification of the rural world, this time have been the victims of the most tragic fires that have hit our country. The CFP considers that all possible irregularities should be investigated and assessed in relation to the subject matter. We do not deal with illegalities and defend truth and clarification, but justice issues must be addressed by justice. For us, justice is what justice is. The Assembly of the Republic must therefore assume its competence to require the Government to take account of what has been done to repair the damage and to restore, as far as possible, the lives of those affected by this tragedy. These people are victims, and that is the status they have to have. We will not contribute to throwing upon those who have seen their goods disappear one day to the other the mistrust that they are all suspects or even corrupt. We must also say, as we have said, that the government's option not to rebuild the houses of second residence was a mistake for people, for the region and for the country. That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, more than two years after the gross fires that consumed thousands of hectares, not only in Pedrógão Grande, but also in six neighbouring municipalities, causing the destruction of forests, cultures, agricultural and livestock productions, public companies and equipment, not forgetting also the major impacts on biodiversity, fires that have affected in particular hundreds of housing and that unfortunately also caused the death and injuries to tens of people, we say that the balance is not positive. The bureaucracy, delays and cuts in deserved support have led many victims to be compensated. Many families wait for the repair of the houses, many farmers who have lost the productive potential have not yet recovered it and, however, the proliferation of the eucalyptus, from its natural regeneration, is completely uncontrolled and unanswered. We understand that it is also time to evaluate what has been done in the prevention of fires and forest policy. The truth is that despite the successive calls of attention from the CFP, the option was to legislate in a hurry and to announce millions that never took place. The CFP has always been with the victims and the population, who cry for measures. It was the PCP that was at the root of the victim support law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u187	It wasn't by any chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u188	... and which presented proposals in the debate of the State budgets for 2018 and 2019 to ensure such measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u189	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u190	I conclude, Mr. President. The CFP will not leave, either within the institutional framework or within the framework of its political action, to require concrete measures to respond to the problems that persist. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u191	Mr João Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the thousands of petitioners, thanking them for bringing to the debate this relevant matter, which needs to be fully clarified. In June 2017, the Pedrogão Grande region, my native land, suffered one of the greatest catastrophes in national territory: a huge forest fire, which for various reasons, such as lack of human resources and combat, lack of road and steel cleaning, the failures of the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal) and adverse climate conditions, declared its main natural richness and the main source of income of the populations there resident, the forest, leaving in ruins hundreds of dwellings, agricultural infrastructures and businesses and giving way to the lives of many of these residents, spreading mourning, sadness and much suffering. We saw a movement of solidarity, led by the Portuguese people, never seen, but we know that not everything went well. We know that, due to the lack of organization in the distribution of such support, due to the inability and incompetence of local and government power, there have been absolutely unacceptable situations, with random and undue financial and material benefits and reconstructions of abandoned and uninhabited homes and ruins for many years. The populations did not do more than ask for help and help to restore their lives, corresponding to the instructions of state authorities and regional services to declare all, but all, the movable and immovable property that had been set on fire or somehow affected by fire. That's exactly what they did. And if they did wrong, it was not on their own initiative, because they did not know the rules and regulations in force. The responsibility for this situation rests entirely with the innocence of the local government and the government, which, deaf and mute, deliberate and regrettablely refrained from intervening, as their obligation would be. It remains to be trusted in the investigations, which continue to take place under the aegis of the Public Ministry, and to hope that justice will be done, in order to recover the good name of those populations and the confidence of the Portuguese. However, while acknowledging the progress of judicial investigations, which we await with serenity, we agree that Parliament should fulfil its supervisory obligations and therefore leave some questions to the Government. First: when and how to resave small construction companies that, with the cancellation of many works, did not receive the amounts corresponding to the work already done? It is their viability and the jobs that are at stake. Secondly, how do the Government intend to solve and recover the amounts applied in irregular or illegal works, in which it is found to be judicially that the owners were not responsible? Third : does the Government intend to intervene and guide the application of donated funds, even in the possession of the REVITA, the chambers and the institutions that have worked on the ground? Should they or should they not be invested in social equipment supporting the population and promoting employment and economic development in that region? Does it intend to promote the reconstruction of small farms and family farms that have not yet been supported because their owners were not — nor were they — collected and declared farmers? We leave a last word of appreciation and recognition to the institutions of solidarity, foundations, businesses, citizens' associations, individuals and volunteers who, in the field, did everything to minimize the suffering of that martyr population. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u193	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners on a petition that should never exist. Three essential issues are at stake, and the three are serious. The first concerns the inability of the State to care for those who have suffered, those who continue to suffer and those who add to the suffering the lack of understanding by the way the State handled this situation. Secondly, it is at stake the very conception of the State as a good person, a State which has to be transparent and rigorous in the use of public resources. Thirdly, something even more dangerous is involved: the frustration of national solidarity, which, under such circumstances, in a tragic circumstance, unites to support those who have suffered the most and remains in doubt whether these support were effectively channelled to those who needed it most. Therefore, there are three issues on which a democracy cannot live in doubt. A democracy must have its own and sufficient mechanisms to clarify that the State, when dealing with a tragedy, is fair and effective enough to do so. Secondly, there can be no doubt that the State is a good person and that, therefore, there is no less chance of benefiting those who did not deserve this benefit and of not paying attention to those who had every reason to have their claim met. Thirdly, in a democracy, we cannot live well with a wave of solidarity that, in the event of a next event—we hope that never happens—is at risk of being much less because people do not believe that what they are giving effectively reaches those who need it. This is a profound degradation of confidence in the democratic state, and there is only one way to resolve it: by clarifying everything involved. We know that there is already an ongoing judicial process, which must have its independence and all the conditions to make clear facts and responsibilities. We know that the Court of Auditors has already pronounced itself precisely in the light of all the issues we have raised. It would not be understood that the Assembly of the Republic, with the instruments it has, did not fulfil the political responsibilities, even because this is an atypical process, which had, from a political point of view, a number of responsibilities that do not merely correspond to the administrative process, but to political decisions taken by those responsible, which, of course, must be scrutinized. Therefore, in the CDS we understand that the mechanism we have at our disposal is indeed the mechanism required by the petitioners, that is, the parliamentary inquiry, and we are available for that which we think is the only possible answer to this petition: a consensus of this Parliament in the implementation of this parliamentary inquiry. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u195	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Request No 545 / XIII / 4. the, subscribed by more than 4000 citizens, having as first subscriber Luís Miguel Machado Figueiredo, we salute respectfully, calls for the opening of a parliamentary inquiry on the use of the support provided to the victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande. The petition is dated — September 2018. It was the time of disclosure, in magazines and in television channels, of the results of journalistic investigations that called into question the seriousness of the support and assistance process for victims of the major fires of June 2017 and the housing reconstruction program. In the meantime, everything calmed down. It's stopped being news. In the previous legislation and within the scope of the activities, tasks and competences of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, the theme of forest and rural fires was always present. Pedragon, and later the whole Central region, were too serious and therefore they mobilized us all. In response to the tragedy, the government has met the demands of the moment. It's not worth denying the evidence. Also the members of the Assembly of the Republic visited the disaster areas in March 2018, met with autarchs, interacted with the populations. In successive hearings members of the government, technicians, commissions, victim associations were heard. It was sought to clarify the public denunciation of the social communication of cases of fraudulent use of public money and donations, of illegality in the process of housing reconstruction. The Government has invested in the territory affected by the fire of Pedrogon tens of millions of euros, in the recovery of infrastructures, businesses, residences. In October 2018, after the submission of this petition, the Revita Fund revealed that only seven of the 259 first houses for reconstruction would be reassessed by the municipalities — 3 % of the total. It is not worth trying to generalize what would have been an exception in that territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u198	The members of the Assembly of the Republic did not remain silent in the face of suspicion. It proves that there has been a lot of mistification, the mixture with the truth of the facts, is the conclusion by one of the officials of the REVITA Fund that that structure had never reached, until that time, the denunciation of any illegal fact about the reconstruction of dwellings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u200	This is very significant. Calling on Members to open a parliamentary inquiry to ascertain political and legal officials is a simple way out for a case under judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u202	To see in parliamentary investigations the answer to all kinds of frustration is very reduced. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judiciary Police are the competent bodies for this research task. Banalizing parliamentary committees of inquiry is a bad service that this Assembly of the Republic provides itself as a sovereign body. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u203	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that much of what was to be said on this subject has already been said in previous speeches and that is why I will be absolutely synthetic. First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners who have brought this debate to Parliament and put our solidarity on the table with a whole region that has been faced with one of the biggest scourges we have been living in in recent years. It was a scourge that led to the loss of dozens of lives and that confronted us all, as a society, first of all with the need to respond, as a country, so that this scourge never repeats itself, as well as the loss of human lives in rural fires, beyond the requirement that there had been consequences of what happened. This national cry and the national solidarity generated was then apparently boycotted by undue use. If this has happened it is absolutely reprehensible, because our people, being a people of solidarity in times of tragedy, cannot see that solidarity threatened in the name of personal interests, nor can the trust they have placed in this solidarity be destroyed. If we're not undermining what unites us as a society. I believe that this condemnation is widespread in all parliamentary groups in this House of the Republic. Now, what the petitioners demand from us is something we cannot give. If we can politically condemn any use that has existed, if we can demand that solidarity is not in vain and that it is respected as a noble act of our people, we cannot substitute ourselves for judicial bodies and they are investigating what has happened. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, I conclude, Mr President, by saying that our solidarity is with that whole region and with all the family and victims of the fires that arrived in Pedrogão Grande, the Central Region, and that, months later, they also reached a considerable part of the country, and it is our simple requirement that justice arrive at the right port quickly to ensure, once and for all, that there has been someone who played with the solidarity of our country, it is condemned, or that it ends with a suspicion that we all have confidence in each other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u205	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners who have brought this initiative today and also regret, once again, this profound tragedy that has struck our country, which has struck people and their belongings, animals and the forest itself. Therefore, at the very least, the memory of what has happened must summon us — even if it may not be to respond immediately to what is requested by the petitioners — to continue to make an effort to work together, to implement measures and tools which, on the one hand, prevent this tragedy from happening again and on the other hand, so that the whole truth is ascertained in relation to what was then the fate of a wave of solidarity that has mobilized the whole country. We must understand, not only in judicial but also in administrative and political offices, what we can do not only to avoid this suspicion but also to improve the management and planning of the territory as a response capacity to this type of catastrophe. It is therefore up to us to strengthen what is our commitment here and to thank you once again for having brought here, today, this unfortunate concern, insofar as it is an episode that we all would like not to have to remember, even though the time has passed. Thank you very much once again for the petitioners. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u207	We therefore conclude the debate on Petition No 545 / XIII / 4. a and we will then move to the next point of the order of business, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 586 / XIII / 4. a ( Silvia Maria dos Ramos Alves Sequeira et al.) — They request the adoption of defence measures of the Natural Reserve of Sado, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 14 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — About the dredgings in the sado estuary, 33 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revoke the authorisation granted to the Administration of the Port of Setúbal to advance with the dredgings in Sado and 46 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends suspension of dredgings in the Port of Setúbal. To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are on behalf of the Greens to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing, demanding the adoption of defence measures from the Natural Reserve of Sado, requirements which, moreover, The Greens subscribe, because, as we know, the dredgings provided for in the Sado estuary are intended to introduce elements and activities that do not exist today in the estuary. And if it is true that it is not the first time that dredging is made in the Sado estuary, it is also true that it is the first time that it is intended to make such deep dredgings and with the expected dimension. It is no wonder, therefore, that concern about the impacts of such an intervention on the estuary of Sado has been expressed by many citizens, movements, associations, authorities and also by the Greens Ecological Party, since the richness of biodiversity that the estuary closes and, in particular, the resident community of dolphins, which may be affected by the noise caused by dredgings. On the other hand, the challenge of traditional fishermen was also heard, since its activity may be questioned when the dredging zone clearly interferes with the area where there is more fishing activity, which shows that effectively the project of the Administration of the ports of Setúbal and Sesimbra (APSS ) did not take into account all the interests and values to be preserved, neither environmental nor social. In addition, the environmental impact study carried out, although favourable, indicates, however, a set of rather significant impacts on the Sado estuary, namely threatening the stability of some species, at risk of pollution resulting from the movement of ships, has an impact on the sands of the beaches of Arrábida, with potentially contaminated sediments. In addition, a study was commissioned by the Portuguese State to a team of biologists from the University of Aveiro who proposed the ecological classification of four areas to protect relevant fauna. It happens that, in these four areas, two remained outside: Sado and the coast of Setúbal. Curiously, the two who collide with the design of the dredgings of the Sado estuary. apparently, part of this study was completely ignored, so that, according to the mistrust that can legitimately arise, there were no obstacles arising from an ecological classification to these dredgings. In view of all that has been said, The Greens, seeking to meet the concerns and purposes of the petitioners, present a legislative initiative with a view to suspending the process relating to the dredgings of Sado, the responsibility of the Administration of the Ports of Setúbal and Sesimbra, and the promotion of a broad public debate, with updated information, including on study deficits, non-concrete classification processes and relationship with interested parties. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u209	You now have the floor to present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by thanking all the people who have signed this petition, those who are here today in the galleries and those who are out there to manifest themselves and who have done everything to ensure that the Sado River is no longer the victim of an environmental crime. After so many calls for attention on this subject, after several national NAP initiatives and the denunciation of this case to the European Commission, it seems unbelievable that we have to return to it. The movement of nearly 7 million m3 of sand affects—recognizes the own environmental impact study—negatively water quality. In addition, some of the dredging areas are contaminated with several heavy metals, as well as pesticides and hydrocarbons. In relation to air quality, the Environmental Impact Study (EIA) supports the increase in pollutant emissions, demonstrating risks to the health of the resident population, either by exposure to contaminants through the intake of food from the estuary or by simple pollution inhalation. In other words, the idea of economic growth is sold to this population, omitting that it will happen at the expense of their health. Regarding biodiversity, the Environmental Impact Study assumes high mortality rates in several estuarine communities, recognizing danger to the only community of red dolphins in Portugal and one of the last three existing in Europe. There is a recognised need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and carbon capture, so it would be to preserve one of the main carbon sinks, which are the marine prairies in the sate estuary. Unfortunately, that's not happening. The location of these dredgings is near the Natural Reserve of the Estuário do Sado and the Marine Park Prof. Luiz Saldanha, areas protected by the Birds and Habitats Directives. The area to intervene itself is within the plan to extend the protection of the Sado estuary, which has been approved for seven years! In view of all these data, how can we trust the Portuguese Environment Agency, whose inertia and similar opinions seem to reveal a permanent bias? This project was aimed at environmental impact assessment with a conditioned favorable opinion, despite having numerous gaps, insufficient mitigating measures, have not been taken into account climate change and have been ignored the opinions of experts linked to this ecosystem. But does anyone think that only 7% of environmental impact assessments deserve to appear unfavorable? [[Congrats from PAN Inês de Sousa Real.]] Therefore, it is not worth saying that the project meets all legal requirements and that the Portuguese Environment Agency is a true example of competence. This declaration of environmental impact, in particular, recognizes that the determining factor of its assessment is the economy, which is particularly perverse to the extent that the objective is to assess the environmental impact. That is why the NAP advocates the withdrawal of economic considerations from these studies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without water quality, food and air, without quality of life that surrounds us, there is no way to speak in a sustainable economy, especially when the resources of all are used and abused for the benefit of only a few. It is not worth telling the world that we are at the forefront of environmental policies when, after that, these types of projects are supported, with significant impacts on the environment and people, defending interests that are exclusive to the APSS, since fishing and tourism activities in the region have more impact on the local economy than increasing port capacity, since the creation of 60 jobs is expected. But how many jobs will be lost? Oh, my God! That's why it's strange that the Town Hall of Setúbal supports you. from the point of view, capitalism can sometimes also be green.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u211	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u212	The Sado River, the populations that live on it and in it are not of the Sr. Members, they are not from the Government or APSS. Sado is from all of us and we all need to defend him. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u213	To present the draft resolution of BE, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the petitioners, the environmental associations, the fishermen's cooperatives, the tourist operators, the population, the citizens and citizens of Setúbal, who have been absolutely tireless in defending the Sado estuary. What's the matter here? A project by the Administration of the Ports of Setúbal and Sesimbra dredging of the Sado River is concerned to increase the accessibility of the port of Setúbal and allow the reception of larger ships. But let's look at the facts: for 7 years, a team of biologists hired by the government itself studied the marine areas on the Portuguese coast in order to identify which should be classified as Natura 2000 Network and deserve special protection. of the four areas proposed to integrate this network, the two that obviously collided with the project of dredgings of the Port of Setúbal suddenly and inexplicably came from above the table. There is no evidence that this intervention does not cause an environmental disaster of devastating consequences in the area of the Sado natural reserve. On the contrary, there is, on the contrary, numerous evidence of how a project of dredging this size is an environmental and social disaster, at local and national level, not only for the destruction of the ecosystem of that zone, which, in addition to all that has already been said today, is a nesting place for about 220 species of birds and which welcomes a population of dolphins, the corvinary rodents, which is the only population resident of cetaceans in Portugal that uses a estuary as an area of food and reproduction. But this area affected either by dredgings, or by sand depositions, then still serves as maternity for several species of fish and other marine species. The concerns of the population of Setúbal, environmental associations, fishermen and tourist operators are more than justified. The dredgings call into question not only the ecosystem of the Sado estuary but, obviously and consequently, the whole global ecosystem and also the tourist, economic and traditional activities, and they call into question the objective of reducing CO2 emissions at a time when everyone here, as well as the whole country, has already talked about the need to combat climate change. This project has everything that's bad. In conclusion, the dredging work began in the wake of the ongoing precautionary measures and the escalation of democratic transparency. Consultation and public discussion were a farce and even with the prospect of this debate, which was already scheduled to happen today, the dragons began to work. We don't admire each other. We know that the government's decision was made even before studies of viability or environmental impact, in fact, like what happened with other projects also in the Setúbal district, such as Montijo airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u215	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u216	This only proves that the government's environmental discourse jumps through the window as soon as the profits of multinationals enter the door. But the government is still in time to catch up on the road, listen to the people and suspend the dredgings of the Sado River. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u217	At this point, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, is registered to speak. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I begin by welcoming all the parties that have taken initiatives and, in particular, the petitioners. The improvement of maritime access to the Port of Setúbal is strategic from the point of view of port competitiveness and from the economic point of view, employment, exports and its role, but is also environmentally sensitive. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group respects this dimension and also points to something that is rarely referred to: it is that the modernisation of this port will allow us to receive different ships, more environmentally friendly ships, ships that carry more cargo and thus generate less damage to the environment. [[All right!]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u219	We recognize the importance of this issue, but we refuse a debate between the good and the bad, the criminal and the innocent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u220	The Socialist Party has a clear position and our parliamentary group respects the declaration of environmental impact. We respect it because we have heard many entities, since in the public consultation period everyone was able to participate, but we also defend an intervention with environmental commitment. I wanted to make it clear here that, unlike the megalomanic project that the Rabbit Pass Government wanted to leave us, with 6, 5 million m3, what the Socialist Party will do, what is in the contest, is only phase A : 3, 5 million m3. Don't lie to people, we have to discuss it with rigour. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say, then, that the Socialist Party — and I say it in my eyes not only to the Setubalians but also to the whole national, because this is a port with national dynamics — does not see reason for the suspension of these dredgings. We do not see why all the legal precepts have been met, we do not see why there are more studies, more knowledge and more information than there was before. This did not happen by chance, however, on account of the responsibility of the government and the State's deconcentrated entities. Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because we invest 2 million euros in studies on sediments and hydrodynamics and also in archaeological studies. In fact, I would like to say that this operation is constantly accompanied by a team of archaeologists, but it is also accompanied weekly by a team of scientists, who are monitoring the impacts there may be. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, take a look. With regard to the CDU, it is not worth being very extensive in words because we already realize that the ENP is in favour of suspension and that the actual PCP is in favour of dredging. Tomorrow we'll find out who the CDU is going to pull the rug.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u221	That's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u222	Tomorrow we will know who will vote for the PCP: if by the position of the authority, if by the position of the ENP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Following, for what I think is essential, Mr Nuno Carvalho, I do not know if this picture tells you anything. [[At this moment, a newspaper clipping was displayed with a photograph.]] I don't know if you recognize yourself in this image of when you went with Prime Minister Steps Rabbit to see the potentials this investment had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u223	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u224	You know, Mr, we very much miss the position of the PSD. Led by a tide of populism, perhaps from social networks, have allowed your coherence to be borne by the pre-sea. We ask the following: could it be that in 2013 they were demanding in PETI 3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ) twice what they are asking today not to be implemented? Is that so, you have the same courage to come here to say that you do not want half of what was required in the past today? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that we were on the ground and we had the opportunity to talk to many of the fishermen. As Uncle John of Cunha told us, I wanted to tell you, with all honesty, that Sado is very important, Sado is very resilient and how the government is doing things well it will continue: important, resilient and beautiful. This is the commitment of the Socialist Party. We're doing good, and by doing good, Sado will still have a port. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u225	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to present a very special compliment to the petitioners and, of course, to all the people who have been on the side of what is a fundamental point, i.e. the clarification we need. The Socialist Party's bench is so concerned about the clarification that it forgot to clarify, talk about Sado, and spoke more about the Social Democratic Party. This is very curious because it is a typically socialist position. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] But I'm going to start by explaining the source of the problem. The source of the problem is called public consultation. A political decision, such as the one you are taking, has rules and the public consultation has rules, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u227	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u228	What do those rules imply? They involve something very simple: for example, the municipality of Setúbal was consulted directly, but the municipality of Grândola did not. The river has two margins, you know? Oh, my God! Setúbal parish boards were consulted. São Sebastião has been consulted, the union of the parish of Setúbal has been consulted but—as if! — the parish of Sado, which has the same name, has not been consulted. Sado River, the parish of Sado! And the fishermen you're talking about have been consulted?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u229	They've been consulted, they've been!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u230	But the tourism of the Arrábida was. Has Tourism been consulted? It wasn't, but the Bird Observation Society was consulted. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have failed in the public consultation and have a problem: you cannot take mistakes and, as you do not know, they never correct them. But I'm going to tell you that if you don't fix this mistake you don't know how much damage they can cause to the Sado River. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u231	What is missing in this speech is a solution to the Sado River ; what is missing in this speech is a solution to the problem that you are creating; what is missing in this speech is a solution to address the failures in public consultation. You can speak on my behalf, but speak more on the Sado River. You can talk about PSD, but talk more about the Sado River. You can speak in Setúbal, yes, speak in Setúbal and talk about what Setúbal can have in tourism and fishing but ensure that the Port of Setúbal can coexist in Setúbal with fishing and tourism. To that end, the Socialist Party's gentlemen have no solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u232	But is it to suspend or not to suspend? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u233	To that end, my lords, then, we must suspend this work and clarify what was the public consultation. We need to clarify and address the shortcomings that you have made in the public consultation. I'm going to say more: you always remember Rabbit Steps. Did you guys have any political coma before the Rabbit Pass? Before Rabbit Steps don't you remember anything? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, now who governs you, and for more time than the Rabbit Passes has ruled!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u234	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u235	You are from the Socialist Party. It is typical of your position: I rule, it is the fault of others; I do, it is the fault of others. Mr André Pinotes, take the positions and we will deal with Sado. Think less about PSD, think more about the country, think more about Setúbal, think more about the Sado River. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u236	And you don't say anything about the dredgings?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indisputable the wealth of the natural heritage of the Natural Reserve of the Estuário do Sado, to which the historical and cultural heritage and its inseparable relationship with human communities is associated. The defense of Sado is not possible without the appreciation of the fisheries sector, the development of tourism and other economic activities, as well as the enjoyment by the people of these natural riches, aspects that we consider central to improving the quality of life and well-being. About the project to improve maritime accessibility to the Port of Setúbal there was a wide debate in the municipality of Setúbal and in the community, with diverse opinions and often contradictory. We have asked the Government and the Port Administration to clarify the project and its objectives, the scrupulously compliance with all planned mitigation and compensation measures, which are alternatives to the deposition of dragons in the resting and provide regular public information. In fact, the only entity who pointed to criticism, in the context of the public discussion, was the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u239	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u241	... that unfortunately were not duly considered by central government entities, nor by the government, who is responsible for managing national ports. Otherwise, many of the concerns that have been raised today had been overcome, particularly with regard to the deposition of the dragonflies, the dolphin community, the noise or the disabsorption of the beaches of Arrábida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u243	Allow me, Mr President, to say, with regard to Mr Pinotes' intervention, that rather than being concerned about attacking the CFP and its intervention, he should be more concerned that the Government would comply with what has been required, particularly by the fisheries organisations. [[PCP applause.]] These questions were raised by the Municipal House of Setúbal, but the Government gave no answer in the public discussion process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u245	On a proposal from the CDU, the Setúbal Municipal Assembly created a possible commission for monitoring the project that has sought, in a serene and active manner, to deepen knowledge about the problems that dredgings pose and control the forms of mitigation assumed. We reject this matter in a simplistic logic of yes or no, since reality is much more complex than that. And so that there is no doubt, the CFP does not oppose the realization of abstract dredgings nor oppose development. But contrary to what seems to be the position taken, at least by Mr André Pinotes, we want to develop, respecting the environment, safeguarding Sado.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u247	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u248	We do not want to develop in any way without complying with what is required, particularly by the authorities. [[PCP applause.]] What is needed is to promote greater involvement of local entities and communities in the search for solutions and to adopt measures to address concrete problems. The problems of the Sado estuary are far from restricted to the realization of dredgings. For this reason, the CFP presented a draft resolution in defence of the Sado estuary, which was discussed yesterday in committee and which will be voted in plenary tomorrow. in this project we propose the strengthening of human and material resources, the valorization of natural resources, the protection of dolphins, the monitoring of water masses and the elimination of pollution sources and that, within the framework of the project, the enforcement of mitigation and compensation measures, the safeguarding of natural and environmental values and that a solution is found for the deposition of alternative drags to rest, as required by the fishing communities. We defend the development of port activity in the region, with the expansion and qualification of the port, with the historical activity of the city, articulated with port development in the rest of the country, and we understand that it is essential to reconcile this development with the development of other traditional economic activities, such as fishing, and with the protection and conservation of nature and biodiversity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u249	The Bureau was informed that the CDS handed over a minute to the PSD, which had only 19 seconds. I therefore give the floor to Mr Nuno Carvalho for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the issue mentioned, of good and bad, I would even say that in the speech of the Socialist Party, there seems to be a good, a bad and a villain, because, when it goes through the government, all that the PSD does is always the villain. But it is not, sir. It's not! The issue is very present here, because it is about defending, or not, the tourism sector and defending, or not, fishing, not just about defending the environmental issue. Mr President, when he refers to fishermen, he does not have the perception, he does not have the ability to say that fishermen are always with the development of the Town Council of Setúbal and the Town Council of Grândola; he does not have the ability to say and say that this work, as it is planned, will put into question more than 300 jobs for fishermen; he does not have the ability to say that this work, speaking of economic issues and by his words, is challenging the economy of the region, which is not only around the Port of Setúbal. In fact, you do not have that capacity because in practice you do not know the problem. And you don't know it because you don't want it, because it's well over a year since you could have given the information to the population, because it's well over a year since the population demands it. Therefore, Mr President, I advise you to clarify people, to clarify civil society, to clarify businesses, to clarify fishermen and not to speak on behalf of them without knowing what they are asking for. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u251	Now it is the Socialist Party that benefits from a minute given by the CDS. So I give the floor to Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that in your first speech you spoke so much about the PSD that you forgot to talk about Setúbal and you had to go back to the ground. Mr President, let me just draw your attention again to this undisturbed fact: Mr President, not many years ago he was defending twice what is now going to be done and is coming to tell us today that we are talking about people? Oh, my God! No, Mr President, we are talking about the commitments we have made, which are realistic commitments, which defend the fishing community, which defend the tourism sector, but also defend the entrepreneurs and the port sector. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying to you this: you may have all the contradictions in the world, but there is one thing you cannot erase, which is the history of your positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u254	The honourable Member has defended something in the past and today, in the taste of any populist tide or of some act of popularity, has allowed his convictions to go down the water. You're here, sir. [[At this moment, it was again displayed a newspaper clipping with a photograph.]] Do You Recognize? It's really you! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u255	The Bureau was informed that the CDS, which still has one minute, gives it to the PSD. I therefore give the floor to Mr Nuno Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u256	Mr President, I thank the CDS this minute you gave me. Going very quickly to the question, Mr. Member can arrange many pictures of me with Steps Rabbit, there are several,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u257	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u258	... you can get the 2017 photographs and you can make noise with this at will - we already know how you work. But now, I'm going to tell you one thing: you know what a contradiction is? That is what you are doing when you say they defend the economy and attack the economy. You know why? For theimosia! Because they can't take the mistakes! And I'm going to tell you something else: where is a phrase, where is a word, in that role that you are showing, that you speak of this work - access to the maritime improvement of the Port of Setúbal? Where is that written, Mr? Be serious! Do not seek contradictions where they do not exist! Look at your bench, look at this government and deal with the contradictions of this work, which may endanger a region from an economic and environmental point of view. Stop looking at the PSD, look at your governance! Stop looking at Steps Rabbit, look at António Costa, look at your government and deal with people's problems! They suspend dredging and clarify the population. Think about Sado, think about Setúbal, think about Portugal and do what you have to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this item on our agenda and we will move on to the next item, which is from the joint assessment of Petition No 607 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — They call for measures to be taken with a view to negotiating the mode and time frame for the recovery of all time of service completed and, in general, of Lein. 98 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Full accounting of all service time of careers and special bodies and 100 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time. To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP starts by welcoming FenPROF, as the first subscriber to this petition, and the platform of the 10 trade unions that promoted the greatest petition of ever one professional group, with more than 60 000 teacher and educator signatures, in defense of the full accounting of the time of service. Another step in a long struggle, with a history that cannot be erased, in defense of a right that, particularly in education, has had a path of unity and mobilization of trade unions and workers. A right that is also of various careers and special bodies, such as military, security forces and services, justice, health, among others. The proposal of the PCP, of its own fist and authorship, delivered in good time, without changes or skills, is consistent with that which has been the unbeatable course of the Portuguese Communist Party in the treatment of this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u262	... with firmness, determination, honesty, without letting themselves be intimidated or pirouettes, giving the unspoken saying, without imposing solutions to the will of workers and their unions and putting, above all, the defence of workers' rights and unity in the struggle of all workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u264	By virtue of the struggle, 2 years, 9 months and 18 days were won. There is no need to recover 6 years, 6 months and 23 days and to eradicate the injustice created by the Government of the Socialist Party from an unacceptable blackout of the time worked, as well as from excesses of teachers with more time of service for others with less time. Working time cannot simply be put in the trash can by any government, whatever it is. So, the PCP proposal is simple: first, to complete accounting of all service time in all careers, categories and special bodies; second, the phasement that may occur in terms of remuneration valuation may not exceed the maximum period of six years; third, at the level of the teaching career, allow the use of the time recovered for retirement or exemption from obtaining a vacancy of access to 5. o and 7. the steps, in accordance with the status of the career; fourth, consider the time provided under the term-solvative contract regime; fifth, eliminate the surpluses in the only way that, in fact, guarantees it, that is, counting all the time worked. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to resolve this situation is today, with the taking up of this compromise here in the debate, and tomorrow at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u266	So the question that has to be asked is: what will PS, PSD and CDS do? Will everyone again be cruising one another in this aggression on the rights of workers, which were the legislative initiatives of the government that went out of service, or did they not? Or will you tell these more than 60 000 workers, who are represented here today in the galleries, who will vote favourably for the PCP project, without placing as proposed conditions to start the teaching career and other careers of the public administration, using teachers as mere toys of a program headed for aggression to workers' rights? The struggle and strength of teachers and other employees of the Public Administration to defend the right to the accounting of all time of service can continue to count on the strength and struggle of the PCP, within and outside the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u267	You now have the floor, to present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet all the teachers and trade unions who have promoted this petition with more than 60 000 subscribers. In the previous legislation there were two errors, two major errors, the largest being that of the Socialist Party by preventing the recovery of time of service of teachers and teachers of the public school. It was the biggest mistake for four reasons: firstly, because I wanted to withdraw what was yours by law, which is your career, and also what is fair, which is the right to retirement and a decent wage. Secondly, because he did not hesitate, in order to prevent the recovery of service time, in socially devalue the role of teachers and teachers, with myths and invertations about the supposed privileges of his career and with very little transparency about the cost of the measure. Thirdly, because he gave up negotiating with the unions the solutions for some of the biggest problems in public school. Fourthly, because, by killing negotiation with teachers and teachers, I wanted to kill negotiation with all the other special bodies and careers of the Public Administration. Anyone who thinks these mistakes will not have their price, probably much higher than the worst scenario that Mário Centeno has done to scare the country with the recovery of the career of teachers and teachers. The second mistake was that of the PSD who, by promising hope to teachers, gave them only disappointment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to correct these mistakes. We therefore propose that the Government be obliged to negotiate with special careers and bodies the recovery of service time and, in the case of teachers, the recovery of its time of service until 2025. It's time to end the ghosts of last Christmas. The only thing this bill obliges in 2020 - the year of 500 million of the surplus of Mário Centeno - is that teachers are returned 399 days of service. This is the only obligation for 2020, which stems from the bill we are now presenting. More than half of teachers will retire in the next 10 years, only 1% of teachers are less than 35 years old and 60% of teachers and teachers are on the first four steps. This is not the portrait of an automatic and privileged career, this is the portrait of a devalued and poorly paid career. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we call for this bill to be allowed to reach the specialty. We call on all parties, but especially the PSD, who have the recovery of service time as an electoral promise of the program with which the elections were presented, and who do so for three reasons: because the country can, because the public school needs and also because teachers deserve respect. It is also this sign that we want to leave here today, that the Left Block leaves here today, with the presentation of this bill. Teachers and teachers deserve and have our respect. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u269	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, we want to greet FenPROF, representing 10 trade union organizations of teachers and educators, for the delivery of this petition with more than 60 000 signatures. Of course, we would like to say that the NAP considers that the reason of the teachers was reinforced, either by the Assembly of the Republic, with the approval of the State Budget for 2019, which included the norm that limited this requirement only to negotiation of the way and time of recovery, or also by the veto of the President of the Republic to the decree-law of the Government which erased more than 6 years of service time. However, the Government imposed on special careers a service time recovery formula created from 70 % of the standard module, calculated from general careers rather than their respective careers. at that time, the NAP did not sit in the Education Commission, but we accompanied with great concern this situation of inequality and loss of remuneration and progression rights in the teaching career. We believe that a quality school cannot be required without giving conditions of dignity, respect and appreciation to all its agents. We cannot see ourselves in a political position that considers only economic and financial issues, without prejudice to what is the greatest source of wealth in a society: its human capital, its competence, its knowledge and its experience. We cannot demand competitive, successful metrics, a positive school climate, psychological health and with motivation of professionals, devaluing their work, their pedagogical and relational role, their ability every day to deal with changes and difficulties as comprehensive as those in schools. It is incoherent, on the one hand, to invest in projects and measures promoting school success, which are obviously fundamental, but which, on the other hand, are not associated with these investments a policy of valorization and professional dignity of those who implement these projects and these measures. Of course, we cannot see ourselves in a political perspective that treats civil servants unequally and unfairly, particularly with regard to working conditions, paid service time and career progression. We cannot see ourselves in a political perspective that denies and distorts the reality of schools and their professionals, without due respect for the people and for the consequences of the political options taken. It is essential to value all the professionals of education and we all know — or we should know — the high risk of rapid, psychological and emotional wear by all the contingencies associated with their professional practice. With the current state budget proposal for 2020, which provides for the park to increase by 1 % compared to the previous year, when serious investment needs in education are clear, and an update of wages in order of 0, 3 %, we wonder whether this suborbiting of education will be able to respond to many of the problems that have been presented to the Minister of Education. After all, what priorities will the Socialist Party take on education next year?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u271	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u272	I shall conclude, Mr President. The NAP therefore considers that a position of availability should be taken for the negotiation between the Government and the teachers’ representative associations relating to the deadline and the way in which the teachers’ frozen service time should be recovered, with a view to their effective full recovery. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u273	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed Petition No 607 / XIII / 4. the initiative of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) and a set of trade unions on a subject that has at least two years of debate. With the entry into force of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 there remain two remaining problems. The first is the fact that two different regimes exist in the country: one for the Azores and Madeira teachers, for which there was an integral recovery of 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, although with different processes, and another for the Continent teachers, to which this decree allowed the recovery of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. The second problem has to do with the surpluses recorded in the series of teachers for the purposes of competition. It is up to the Government to address these two issues, and it is the responsibility of the Government to resolve these two issues. For the CDS, the focus of the issue is on thawing. In fact, it is in the freezing verified in the years 2005 and 2007, in the governments of José Socrates, which happened precisely because the increase in the salary mass of the Public Administration, in which teachers were included, made public accounts unsustainable. Now, from here on, nothing of no substance has changed in the career of teachers who change this reality. Moreover, it is sufficient to look at the State budget for 2020: the wage mass will increase EUR 715 million, of which EUR 527 will be for remuneration progress, and of these EUR 527 million relate to teacher progress. We are, in everything else, the same, i.e. creating fixed expenditure that we know can once again create a problem of sustainability in the short term. Therefore, as long as a review of the teaching career is not on the table, so that it is sustainable for all contributors, including teachers, and so that it recognizes and pushes the merit of the teaching career, the CDS will not take part in this discussion. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u275	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens Ecologist Party, I welcome the thousands of teachers who have subscribed to the petition, demonstrating that they do not comply with the injustice imposed on them and demanding respect for their professional life. In the previous legislation, one of the objectives of the Greens was the replacement of rights previously withdrawn to Portuguese, either by the PSD/CDS Government, or by the PS Government. This was the case with the freezing of public service careers, from which public servants were about a decade without being able to progress in their careers. The gross injustice of that decision led to the ENP committed itself to defending its revocation. The State Budget for 2018 confirmed this thawing; however, there are careers in which the time of service is a determining factor for the progression and their remunerative appreciation, such as the case of the teachers we have today. The Greens then presented a proposal for an amendment which determined that it would be considered all the time of service provided by the worker, which, unfortunately, was rejected — the PS, the PSD and the CDS together once again. The Green Parliamentary Group also presented a draft resolution recommending that the Government, in dialogue with the trade unions, ensure that, in careers whose progress was also dependent on the length of service provided, it would count all that time for career progression and corresponding remuneration valuation. This draft resolution was adopted despite the abstention of those who now « cry crocodile tears » from the state to which the public school, PS and CDS arrived. The State Budget Act for 2019 again enshrined the principle of counting the time of service, only to consider the deadline and the way to do it. throughout all this time, the PS government, listening to the protests and the national consensus, sought that this time of service was not accounted for, imposing an unfair blackout, but the expressive struggle prevented this issue from closing, forcing meetings with its representative structures. Although this petition still refers to the return of 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, it does not cease to take place, because what remains to be concerned is the full recovery of all the time of service provided by the teachers, which the Greens will continue — and will continue — to defend. It is therefore lacking to return to teachers 6 years, 6 months and 23 days of effective work and it is because of this return that we are going to beat. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u277	Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor for the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners and trade unions here present and we welcome the parliamentary groups that have presented the bills that are being discussed today. I should like to start by stressing that the XXI Constitutional Government Programme set 'as a primary objective to increase the income available to families. For employees of the Public Administration, this objective is achieved in particular by defrosting careers from 2018 onwards ». The State Budget for 2018 operationalized the defrosting of all Public Administration careers; the State Budget for 2019 reaffirmed and maintained this premise. The thawings have taken place since 1 January of this year and the Government has guaranteed equal treatment between the Public Administration's careers. More: guaranteed sustainability, guaranteed compatibility with available resources. We know that this is a complex issue, but we need to be very clear about how we deal with it. We cannot highlight the exceptional nature of the solution presented for the career of teachers as it is a career with a single category, which translates into a purely horizontal development and the fact that the workers integrated in it did not have paid appreciation during the freezing period. The adoption of a solution as intended in the initiatives under consideration would be socially unfair and financially unsustainable because, as Mr. Prime Minister said on 3 May this year, « the restriction of this solution to teachers and other special bodies places the effects of the crisis on other public servants and, should be added, all Portuguese who have suffered in their salaries, pensions, employment and taxes». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u279	For the government and for this bench, the question is closed and we have been clear! We have not made any promises in the electoral programme, nor in the Government programme, nor in this budget. We didn't fool anyone! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we assume that we bet on the Public Administration by developing a strategic framework in which the appreciation and rejuvenation of careers will be present. We are committed to creating conditions for public administration training and recognition of merit as decisive factors to ensure the involvement of all in the construction of productive, sustainable and quality public services. We bet on management instruments, such as pre-reforms, because, as Mr. Minister of Modernization of the State and Public Administration said, teachers are a class in which pre-reform makes a lot of sense. We bet on promoting cross-border mobility programmes, a mechanism that we want to study, negotiate and implement. We bet on planning needs in the medium and long term. We bet, essentially, on fair, balanced and equitable treatment for all public service workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u280	Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor below.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u281	Mr President, I begin by complimenting the more than 60 000 petitioners, in particular those present today in the galleries of this Parliament, and calling for measures to negotiate the way and the deadline for the recovery of all completed service time. On this petition and on the bills presented in the meantime, either by the PCP or by the Left Block, the PSD position is always that: we do not change our opinion, nor change our position. The accounting of the frozen time of all public officials for career progression is a matter of elementary justice. Without demagogy, without creating illusions, our proposal, presented at the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 65 / 2019, provided for the accounting of service time for career progression purposes, but extended over time and with the guarantee of the necessary financial sustainability. But we have also said many times, and we will repeat again that this is a matter of government responsibility. The terms and methods of full recovery of unaccounted time for career or other progression will have to be established by the government in a negotiated process, taking into account the criteria of commitment of society to the resources available, in view of the country's economic and financial situation, taking into account, inter alia, the rate of GDP growth (gross domestic product) and the evolution of public debt, the future sustainability of the public education system, in particular in terms of the need to rejuvenate teaching staff, career reviews, the rate of retirements and the future needs of the education system. It is the government that has to dialogue and negotiate with the social partners and propose, in a serious and open manner, a transparent, fair, balanced and sustained solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u283	In this regard, I would also like to remind you of our electoral programme and the express commitment we left there, if we were government. This means that, without prejudice to a future assessment of the conditions of progression between the different steps, the PSD will continue to defend the recognition of the total time of service provided and will negotiate with trade union organizations the way of consecrating in career progression, subject to the following conditions: first, phased for a period not less than six years; second, financial availability in order not to affect the sustainability of public accounts and the principle of equal treatment of special careers of the Public Administration; third, distribution of the time reached between progression, reduction of the educational component and decriminalization of early retirement from 63 years. And we said that the reduction of the educational component would be important to release teachers for supervisory and training functions both within the framework of the launch of a new model of professional in practice, either within the framework of the appreciation of the teaching career. Mrs. Members, we continue, and will continue, always available to support all the solutions that rightly defend the rights of all teachers and also of all public officials who are in this situation, but who simultaneously guarantee the commitments responsible for financial sustainability and the enhancement of public education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u284	Mrs. Members, having concluded this point, I would like to remind you that legislative initiatives will be voted on tomorrow during the voting period. We will move on to the seventh point of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 316 / XIII / 2. a ( uAPHu- Association of Heroic Parents ) — They request the creation of legislation that fills the lack of financial support and the rights of parents of children/ young people with cancer, together with, in general, Bill 91 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities, rare disease or oncological disease and determines the payment to 100 % of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer, 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening rights and conditions of follow-up to children with chronic, oncological or accident-related disease, 102 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the social and labor protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease and 111 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increases the initial parental leave period in 60 days in the case of birth of a child with disabilities or rare disease and increases the amount of the allowance for assistance to a child with disabilities, chronic illness or oncological disease, proceeding to 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February ( Labour Code ) to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal System of Social Protection in Parentality ) and 4. the amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal Regime of Social Protection in the Parentality of Public Service Workers Integrated in the Convergent Social Protection Regime ). To present the draft law of BE, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Children with cancer should not only be empathy: we should have public policies that guarantee them the best health care that, as a community, we can provide and we must guarantee them the right to be accompanied by those people with whom their emotional ties are stronger. This is what this debate is about the licenses for parents and mothers of children with oncology or disabilities and the value of these licences. I am not going to take up all the testimonies we have heard in Parliament when we receive the petitioners, nor will I take up the testimony that I have had the opportunity to hear throughout the country in the public sessions I participated in when we made the status of the caretaker and informal caregiver. These are emotionally demanding situations and, sometimes, dilacerants and the inadequacy of the support network, the weaknesses that persist in social support and health care make the life of these families even more difficult. Often, as the petitioners say, caring for these children ends up involving the abandonment of one of the parents of their employment and, as it is known, in these issues related to care are almost always women, it is almost always the mothers who end up doing so. More public support was available to children and probably would not have to be that way. The question, however, is that both families and children must be entitled, in addition to public support, to public policies, to formal care, to the presence of their parents, wanting and able to follow up children with disease or disabilities. In the previous legislation, we took a positive step when we increased the duration of the licence from four to six years and when we defined that this licence has no limit, in the case of serious diseases in children in terminal condition - it was indeed the minimum sensitivity that the legislator should have. But we had to wait until 2019 and we had to wait for this discussion here and we were proud to have made a proposal and negotiated the solution that was adopted. Only that the prices of licences paid at 65 % often put families in a situation of poverty and difficulty in dealing with the basic costs of daily living and, even with regard to licences, can we go further. Following this petition by about 30,000 people, the Left Block today presents a bill with three measures that we sincerely hope this Parliament can approve: firstly, the 60-day increase in the initial parental leave in the case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease; secondly, a greater follow-up to the parents of children with disabilities or chronic illness, due to the extension of the 5-hour reduction of the normal working period until the minimum age of three years; thirdly, the payment of 100 %, instead of the 65% that are in the law, of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer. It is our obligation, not only to the Left Block but to the whole House, to respond positively to the more than 30 000 people asking us to do so. These people count on us not only in expressions of sympathy, but also with this project and with our favorable vote in this plenary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u286	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to congratulate the Association of Heroic Fathers, who has stimulated this petition, and all the signatories of this petition, almost 30,000, who brought us here a set of concerns and also proposals for these concerns. For the PCP, it is unquestionable that, from the moment of diagnosis and throughout the follow-up process of children and young people with cancer, with chronic disease or, even in the event of an accident, affection, physical and mental availability, the care of parents is indispensable and irreplaceable, and therefore all conditions that allow parents to be present throughout this process and at all times necessary should be guaranteed. For several years the CFP has put forward proposals in this regard and, in the past legislation, a CFP initiative has been adopted to strengthen measures in the field of oncology and support for children and young people with cancer, as well as their families, of which the strengthening of psychological support for children, young people and their families, the extension of the conditions of access and the amounts of social benefits available to parents and caregivers, the obligation of the employer to adapt the working time and the functions to be performed in respect of the specific characteristics of the caregiver. However, considering that it is important to go further and ensure, in law, the strengthening of the rights and conditions of follow-up to children with chronic illness, oncological disease or the result of accident, the CFP brings to debate this bill. We therefore propose: the increase to 90 days of justified and paid absences at work, during the full period of hospitalization, treatment or convalescence for child assistance; the creation of a allowance for child assistance during the full period of the same hospitalization, treatment or convalescence; the guarantee of simultaneously enjoyment of the child care allowance by the parents; that the daily amount of the child care allowance corresponds to 100 % of the reference remuneration of the beneficiary and 80 % of the reference remuneration of the other parent; that, in situations of unemployment, the remuneration for the calculation of the allowance for child assistance shall be referred to the last month with a remuneration record; the guarantee of the limit of the allowance for child assistance corresponding to the national minimum wage; and also the maintenance of the rights of workers, in particular in the right to pay and food allowance, in the case of the absences provided for child assistance. These are proposals that strengthen maternity and paternity rights, advancing in the conditions of follow-up to children and young people with chronic disease, with oncological disease or after an accident, fulfilling the objective of defending the best interests of the child and its integral development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u288	You now have the floor to present the draft law of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by congratulating the almost 30,000 petitioners, who request the creation of legislation that fills the lack of financial support and the rights of parents of children and young people with cancer, for bringing this important issue to debate. Oncological diseases are the second cause of death in Portugal, and can reach any age group. Cancer in children and young people is rare and the cure rate around 80 %, being diagnosed in Portugal annually between 400 and 450 new cases of paediatric cancer. That is, per year, there are 400 or 450 families who have to suddenly adapt to a reality and to a routine completely different from what they had so far. Diseases that affect children's health, whether from the chronic or oncological forum, have a great impact on the life not only of children, but also of their families, especially their parents, with physical, emotional, economic, social and labor consequences. We refer here to the diseases that require prolonged or permanent treatment and which, on the one hand, may result in the removal of school for extended periods of time and, on the other hand, imply that families reorganize around the child and the care that it now needs, given the needs that arise with the disease. This adjustment often involves changes in family management at various levels, particularly in the working situation of parents, since we talk about treatments or care that can last several years, or the whole life, and that can take place in places far from the residential area of families. It is therefore essential to strengthen parental rights in support of children with disabilities, chronic or cancer, creating a fair legal framework that guarantees the full exercise of this right, but also that it does not neglect labour integration, personal achievement and emotional support for parents and mothers. in this sense, recognizing as positive the recent extension of the licence to care for children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer until six years, we consider that, however, this time limit may constitute a barrier to the follow-up of children with cancer, insofar as unfortunately the disease may persist or present recurrence beyond that period. in these cases, we believe that the extension of the licence should always be allowed, and it should also be accepted that both parents can benefit from the licence together in certain situations. With regard to the daily amount of child assistance allowance — which is currently equal to 65 % of the recipient’s reference remuneration — this is a time when there is a significant increase in expenditure and parents are faced with significant reductions in the income taken, we propose payment to 100 % of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer. In addition, given that families need to travel for treatment, often centralized in large cities due to the absence of responses elsewhere in the country, we also consider it important to share the costs with housing in cases of economic insufficiency. Finally, we see as essential that specialized follow-up consultation is provided to child cancer survivors, and that consultation should exist in all oncological centres, since it currently exists only in Lisbon, and, given its importance, that psychological monitoring of children and their families should be strengthened, and access to consultation should be guaranteed within 30 days after diagnosis. Finally, I cannot fail to mention that the various initiatives mentioned here today, together with this petition, show convergence between some political forces with the concerns brought here. We therefore hope that it will finally be time for this House of the Republic to respond to them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u290	To present the CDS-PP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are dealing with a petition dated 2017, of the Association of Heroic Parents initiative, which has collected about 30,000 signatures and which calls for legislation to complete the lack of financial support and which considers the rights of the parents of children and young people with cancer. For the CDS, a fair and solidarity society should look at all citizens with the attention they deserve, particularly those in a fragile situation, and develop integrated policies that meet their rights. It is in this sense that the CDS has presented several initiatives, from then on in the area of the rights of children with cancer. It is also in this context that the CDS presents Bill No 111 / XIV / 1. the, which amends the Labour Code and the legal regime of social protection in parenthood, as well as the legal regime of social protection in the parenthood of workers in public functions. What changes do we propose? First amendment: knowing that the legislation governing the initial parental leave only positively discriminates against situations of multiple or premature births, it is our understanding that this positive discrimination should be extended to other cases, so we propose the 60-day extension for those who have a child with disabilities or rare disease and that this license may be enjoyed by the father or mother. Moreover, this measure had already been presented by the CDS in the previous Legislature, had been plunged into the specialty by PS, the Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecologist Party, but I think that now, by the intervention of the Left Block, there may be the ability to make progress. Second amendment: at the end of the previous legislation, the increase in the amount of allowance for specific risks and assistance to children was approved, which increased from 65 % to 100 % of the reference remuneration, but only for workers in the private sector. For the CDS, it does not make sense that there are two different schemes for these two types of workers, so we propose the same increase to 100 % also for workers in the public sector. Finally, we believe that it is a failure of legislation that the allowance for assistance to a disabled child, chronic illness or rare disease is maintained in 65 % of the reference remuneration. We therefore agree with the petition and the proposal we make is that these cases be matched with the specific risks for child assistance, thus increasing the subsidy to 100 % of the remuneration for all workers. For the CDS, these changes make the legislation fair in different cases of fragility, but also fair among the different sectors of work and reflect a greater capacity to support families and children in situations of fragility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u292	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u293	Ex. Mr President and other Members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament and Dear Members: The debate to which we are called today stems from the presentation of Petition No 316 / XIII / 2. the, submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, on 9 May 2017, by the Association of Heroic Fathers. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would first of all like to welcome the petitioners and their fair demands, which deserve the best attention of this parliamentary group. Indeed, the petition submitted alerts us to a set of situations of inability to respond to labour protection, use of the right of assistance and financial support to parents of children or young people with cancer. In the broader picture of the protection of these parents of children with disabilities, chronic or cancer, it would be impossible to imagine that the Socialist Party would not take sides with them. The humanism that characterizes us is central to the ideology and political activity of our party and our parliamentary group. There is no better way to demonstrate than to pay attention to the behaviour of the Socialist Party during the process that has led to recent legislative changes in this area. In particular, I am referring to the work done by the Working Group on Deficiency and the Working Group on Gender Equality of the Committee on Labour and Social Security in the past legislature. The analysis of the problems listed in the petition, as well as other similar and applicable to the situations of disability and chronic illness, was responsible for promoting changes in Law No 90 / 2019. This law, passed in May 2019 and published on 4 September, deserved the contribution and approval of the Socialist Party. In fact, he really deserved unanimous approval, picking up the support of all the parties. Law projects submitted by the Left Block, the PCP, the PAN and the CDS, being different from each other, are intended to strengthen the protection framework for the parents of children with disabilities, chronic or oncological disease. However, the Socialist Party cannot accompany them nor presents its own initiative on this subject, precisely because the discussion of this subject is not done in the context of the date of submission of the petition, 2017, but today. Therefore, we cannot ignore that the amendments caused by Law No 90 / 2019 meet many of the needs identified by the petitioners and the various parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic. We highlight, for example, the extension of the leave to care for children with disabilities or chronic illness to cases of cancer; the increase of the parental leave to cases of premature and postpartum hospitalization; the possibility of extending the right to leave from six months to four years or six years, by medical certificate, among other changes to the parental protection regime. Moreover, the measures with budgetary impact will only come into force with the State budget for 2020, so they are not yet implemented. It would not be understandable to produce legislative amendments only two months after the publication of the latest legislation on this subject and even before it can produce full effect. For this reason, the Socialist Party will continue to be available to receive all contributions and encourage discussion of the improvement of the protection of parenthood for parents of children with disabilities, chronic or cancer, waiting for the legislative changes promoted and for which it has contributed to be the target of evaluation supported by its application. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u294	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all the signatories and promoters of this petition that alerts us to the reality of the parents who live the drama of having a child to whom an oncological disease has been diagnosed. to human drama add the routines that drastically change, the permanent anxiety and the professional and economic constraints with which they debate to be able to accompany the child as close as the harsh circumstance requires. through the legislator, it is necessary to create conditions and take the measures deemed appropriate to minimize these difficulties and ensure that these families are no longer discriminated against because they have a child with cancer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u296	This is the appeal to us that this petition, dynamized by the Association of Heroic Fathers, however extinct with the death of its founder, Adelaide Silva, who here we just want to remember. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u297	The Social Democratic Party, sensitive to this reality, in 2017 presented the draft resolution recommending to the Government that it adopt measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer, which came to give shape to some of the claims of the party regarding the law of parenthood, at the end of the last legislation. We recognize that we can and should continue to work on these matters, from the very point of view of correcting inequalities. in this sense, we will not make any of the projects that are under discussion here. This is something that should unite us all and therefore deserve a specialized job that can bring more justice, more balance and therefore more support to all families with children with cancer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u298	Finally, we want to remember that in the previous Parliament, with the support of the PSD, steps have been taken, which we consider very positive in this matter and in support of these families. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party is still available to build consensus and solutions that dignify this Assembly, these children and these parents. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u299	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us conclude another point on our agenda today, which is already going on. We will start the last point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 497 / XIII / 3. a (CGTP - General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) — Against precariousness, by employment with rights, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 11 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code) and 89 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work. To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, I would like to begin by greeting the National Inter-union CGTP, which is a dynamizer of this petition, its representatives present here and also the more than 51 000 signatories who bring us their claims here, as well as all the workers with precarious ties who every day fight for their right to have employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u301	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u302	Labour precariousness is a reality which marks the country's social situation and which shows well the exploitation that the right-wing policy either imposes on workers. There will be more than 1 million and 200 thousand workers who every day, responding to permanent needs, in the public sector and in the private sector, have a precarious bond. False green receipts, term contracts in disregard of law, research scholarships or professional internships and temporary work without compliance with rules, outsourcing, in all these situations are workers continually confronted with uncertainty and instability in employment, who do not know whether they will be employed or will be paid next week. Precautionaryness runs hand in hand with unemployment, with low wages, with irregular hours, with the oppression of rights, with the reality of the impoverishment of workers and their families. This is a reality that needs to be brought to an end. With the initiative we are presenting today, the CFP makes another contribution to strengthening workers' rights and to making a firm way to combat and eradicate this economic and social scourge. Among other proposals, we advocate the reduction of the situations in which it is possible to use the term contract: the repeal of the extension of the experimental period to 180 days and of the very short-term special contracts introduced by the former PS Government; the reduction of the number of renewals of the contract to the right term and the duration of the contract to the uncertain term. Precautionary is not an inevitability, resulting from policy options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS governments, as well as employers'options, which thus exacerbate and accentuate exploitation of workers by replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. A permanent job must correspond to an effective link, a link with rights. The job is there every day; the workers too. The effective link is lacking; the rights of these workers are lacking. And in the same way that, in the past, the struggle of workers was decisive in gaining and guaranteeing rights, this force and this struggle will be essential engines in this fight against precariousness and its eradication. The CFP will be here, as it has always been, with the workers in this fight, intervening and presenting proposals to strengthen labour and social rights, to combat all forms of precariousness — in the public sector and in the private sector — but also by the general increase in wages, for 35 hours for all workers, by strengthening the rights of those who work in shifts and at night, by defending collective bargaining, because the fight against precariousness is inseparable from the fulfilment of the constitutional right to work and to safety at work, it is inseparable from the value of wages, the right to collective bargaining and decent schedules that mean an effective articulation of professional life with personal and family life. This is our commitment to the workers and to the Portuguese people. This is a fight we will not abandon. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u303	To present the draft law of BE, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the CGTP and the more than 51 000 petitioners who bring to this Parliament one of the central issues of the world of work and democracy, which is the fight against precariousness. In the last decade, the question of precariousness has jumped to the heart of political debate, has gained visibility of large-scale fraud in false green receipts, temporary work schemes, abuse in term contracts and use of use of internships, profusion of employment-inclusion contracts to occupy permanent jobs, recourse to labour brokerage and subcontracting, to compress rights and fragment labour collectives and their regulatory instruments. Precautionary work is not an inevitable consequence of changes in the economy or a requirement of new productive forms. It is, yes, a political strategy and a way of domination that has precise objectives: to embarrass work—it is not by chance that precarious workers gain, on average, less than 30% than effective workers— ; to increase blackmail and fear to inhibit the exercise of rights; to lower social protection and disaggregate the forms of organisation and collective representation of the world of work. In recent years and in previous legislation, there have been three advances for workers: increased employment, increased minimum wages and the left has been able to start a process of regularization of precariouss, which is still far from being completed. Only that the standard of employment and precariousness remained completely unchanged, as in fact the low-wage model and the Labour Code of the troika maintained its main standards. The job created today, especially for young people, is precarious and poorly paid employment. There are more than 1 million precarious workers in Portugal. Portugal continues to have the same levels, completely excessive, of long-term contracts above 20 %. Temporary work continues to be used impunity for permanent functions, either in industry, in calls centers, in health, in journalism — today, in the morning, I agreed with the news that TVI is using the Portuguese Hosts company to hire journalists. In addition to the most typical forms of precariousness in recent decades, we have seen the development of other techniques of precariousness that gain ground, such as the use of outsourcing and outsourcing, which has become the rule in call centers — everyone knows it and the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) does not end with this embarrassment which causes, in the same workplace, there are completely different statutes and labour rights — or the achievement of the transformation of workers into individual entrepreneurs and the transformation of employers into customers, i.e. the creation of a kind of "employees", the sole effect of which is to increase exploitation and working hours, to weaken social protection and to pretend that there is no subordinate work in all these situations where there should be a contract. The truth is that these forms of precariousness that have spread in recent years have not been the object of government combat. More serious, in the last amendment to the Labour Code, with the duplication of the experimental period and with the generalization of very short-term oral contracts, new window precariously opened, in some cases with the most dubious constitutionality. The solutions suggested by this petition would therefore be concrete ways of combating these multiple means of precariousness: for each permanent job an effective contract, limiting temporary work, preventing false outsourcing, linking and equalizing the conditions of the so-called 'outsiders', strengthening the fight against false green receipts, powers, means and the Authority's ability to act for the working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u305	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u306	I will finish, Mr. President. The project we are presenting today is going exactly that way. It remains to be known whether these steps will be taken or whether the PS will join the right again to maintain the same precariousness that it has been lamenting in its speeches. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u307	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u308	Mr President: We would like to begin by welcoming both the approximately 50,000 petitioners and the CGTP who bring us this petition against precariousness, for employment with rights. We follow your concerns, which also reflect our concerns. In fact, the NAP in the past legislature presented a number of initiatives aimed at combating job insecurity and ensuring greater stability in employment. We highlight, for example, the strengthening of the protection of workers in the event of harassment, measures to support parenthood, including the extension of parental leave, the guarantee of the right to professional disconnection, the reintroduction of the right to compensatory rest for additional work and compensation for the provision of additional work, measures to promote equal pay for men and women, the strengthening of supervision within the framework of working relationships, ensuring more means for ACT and finally measures to enable greater reconciliation of family life with working life, such as reduction of working hours for all 35 hours and the right to 25 working days of work. Despite these efforts, however, there is still a long way to go. Labour relations continue to be marked by huge inequalities, the number of workers with precarious links is still quite high, the percentage of workers with temporary ties in Portugal has fluctuated between 20 % and 22 % in the last decade according to Eurostat data, values above the average of the European Union, and these workers are subject to numerous pressures, higher risk of unemployment and low wages. In addition, the use of new technologies in the context of work has made it possible to disturb the rest periods of the worker, preventing them from getting out of work, creating an environment of permanent stress and exhaustion, making working people full-time. Working continuously is not synonymous with excellence, productivity and can even lead to burn-out, a phenomenon that has been gaining global scale and that is registering worrying levels among generations of younger professionals, which has led the World Health Organization to classify it as a professional disease. We still have a long way to go to ensure the effective quality of employment, which is, in fact, a bet on the vocational training of workers, on the payment of decent wages and on the eradication of all forms of work precariousness. It is essential to limit the criteria for recourse to temporary work, not only because of the negative effect it has on the quality of employment, but also in order to strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work, to review the scope of the use of long-term employment contracts and to strengthen the number of employees of the Working Conditions Authority, thereby ensuring the proper and necessary supervision and intervention that prevents the use of the employment of workers with precarious links and performance of permanent functions. We also understand that it is essential to create healthier working environments, with a clear commitment to the mental health of workers and the creation of conditions that enable them to reconcile their professional life with personal and family life, particularly by reducing working time and increasing rest and leisure time. Finally, discrimination in the context of work is still a reality today, and therefore there is a need for measures that prohibit it and promote equality. in this context, we must ensure the monitoring of recent legislative amendments on harassment and equal pay between men and women and improve the employability of immigrants as well as persons with disabilities, which are still faced with many barriers to access to the labour market and access to their work on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u309	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. They can count on the NAP to monitor the initiatives presented here, as well as the concerns raised. We will continue to work to ensure that permanent jobs correspond to effective working links. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u311	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mara Lagriminha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, CGTP, Ms. and Mrs. Members: Sometimes, in order to build a position for the future, it is very important that we know the past. And the Assembly of the Republic is fruitful in knowing a past, a quite recent past. I recall that between 2011 and 2015 we witnessed a heavy process of deregulation and individualization of labour relations in Portugal. We have seen a country of back aimed at, to the detriment of social dialogue, collective bargaining and balanced labour relations, where precariousness has widened in the social space.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u313	Shots fired! You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u314	This is not the way we want, nor is it the way we have followed in the previous Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The road we followed was not a road of facilitation, but the road needed to build the right conditions for a new social consensus that runs counter to the excessive tendency of individualization of labour relations and that affirmed social dialogue as a strategic advantage of negotiation, in particular for the restoration of our country's confidence and economic dynamics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u315	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u316	What we have done and which translates into the amendment, recently approved in this Assembly of the Republic, of the Labour Code, and which entered into force in October, was to restore the country to walk in the same direction, without turning our backs, as was the catch up of the times of the PàF (Portugal to the Front).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u317	Well remembered! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u318	If there is something that the PS, which the left of this House has managed to add and unite Portuguese society...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u319	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u320	...and, therefore, we walk together against precariousness and face this challenge in front of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, however, in this House and in the discussion of these bills, even though united around the fight against precariousness, we cannot but surprise the extemporaneousness of the resumption of these diplomas. And I say it again because, in the previous legislation, for a year, in this plenary and in the working group of labour laws, we had a wide discussion, analysis and presentation of proposals relating to labour relations, combating precariousness and temporary work, of what resulted, and I repeat, after this wide and open discussion, in the adoption of the new Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u321	But it didn't work out!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u322	For PS, social dialogue continues to be an adjustment factor and a very important challenge for combating inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u324	As Prime Minister Antonio Costa recalled at the time of the adoption of the Labour Code, this is the first legislation adopted since 1976 to combat precariousness in the labour market and represents a ruin with many years of practices — bad practices — as regards precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u325	That is manifestly exaggerated!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u326	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u327	To this end, we introduced the limitation of the excessive use of end-term employment contracts, the promotion of the continuous hiring of workers seeking first and long-term unemployed, the guarantee of greater protection for temporary workers, the promotion of greater dynamism of collective bargaining. However, the fight against precariousness and restrictions on temporary work are not only exhausted by legislative amendments but also by improving the supervisory means of the Working Conditions Authority. The State budget reinforces this action by promoting the improvement of working conditions and by dynamising collective bargaining. To this end, the objective is to strengthen the ACT, including the completion of the recruitment process of 80 new inspectors, a new external recruitment of inspectors in order to comply with the ratios, a recruitment to strengthen resources, the improvement of the means necessary for the field inspection and data interconnections with other bodies to ensure greater effectiveness of the inspection actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u328	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u329	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the time for consolidation of public policies. This cannot be the time of the legislative dislate, because the change is only done and operates with the time needed to realize the impacts on society and the PS will always contribute to being the guarantor of that security, stability and trust! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u330	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who signed this petition on the fight against precariousness, a petition from the CGTP. I would like to give the ladies. They ask for a note of tranquility on what is the PSD's political agenda in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u332	It's the afternoon taboo!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u333	The PSD, in this regard, has at its top priorities the fight against job insecurity. Even in times when the country was experiencing numerous difficulties, we had a strong agenda for competitiveness, a strong agenda for economic growth, a strong agenda for employment growth, but we have never abdicated from the question of job quality — more employment, always accompanied by better employment. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u334	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u335	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know the speech doesn't like the Socialist Party very much, but I'm going there. On the CGTP, I leave a note: I would like to call on the CGTP to find, also within social dialogue, within the framework of healthy, tripartite social dialogue — with the employers, with the government, with the representatives of the workers — the best understanding on this subject of precariousness. We know that the best reach, the best foundations of labour legislation are found within social consultation. Therefore, I appeal to the CGTP to test this understanding in this tripartite organ. Now, I would say a few words to the authors of the bills, to the PCP and to the Left Block, but the intervention of the Socialist Party deserves us to call it the debate here, even because, Mrs. Members, they have responsibility for the last four years and it is important that, after Mrs Mara Lagriminha's intervention, we can call here the Socialist Party to responsibility for what they have written in the history of the fight against precariousness—they have not written anything, they have written zero, Mrs Mara Lagriminha! [[PS protests.]] The evidence is that you used a speech with flowers, with words, but you forgot to look for the numbers. PSD is not afraid to speak in numbers. We are going to talk in that report that you have not read and that you have left on 27 November, which is the summary report on public employment. Mrs Deputy, the employer of civil servants is the government. Is it or isn't it? Does the honourable Member know that the data from the third quarter of 2019 show an increase of more than 4611 contracts over time? Are we going to compare with the PSD government, of which the honourable Member has spoken so much? Are we going to the PSD? So let me tell you: if we compare with the same quarter, the third quarter of 2015 of the PSD government, the Socialist Party increased the precariousness in the Public Administration. [[PSD applause.]] I don't need words, I use numbers, Mrs. Member, and the numbers, those that the Socialist Party doesn't like to read, dismantle any reality. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party, the fight against precariousness was the flag that united them—of course it was—but in combating precariousness we have nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u336	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u337	Unfortunately, we have to increase job insecurity, which is why you have to respond to the Portuguese and, finally, apologize if you have time! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u338	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solution the PSD found to combat precariousness, Mrs Carla Barros, reminded me of that idea of someone who, to fight the fires, started the trees. [[Laughing.]] The PSD fights precariousness by dismissing public officials. That's what you did. [[Laughter and applause of the ENP, of the PCP and of the PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u340	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u341	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to congratulate the citizens who have subscribed to the petition that has motivated this agenda as well as the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Inter-unional (CGTP-IN ), who promoted it and dynamized it. I would also like to say that the Greens fully follow both the concerns and the objectives expressed in this petition, because demanding the end of work precariousness, demanding employment with rights and requiring an effective link of work to a job is no longer to demand respect for those who work. And those who work are right, especially when we find that precariousness has come to take account of the reality of work in our country. In fact, the policy options based on low wages and duty-free work, as well as the various legislative amendments in the field of labour, are decisive factors for the generalization of work precariousness, for the deregulation of working conditions and for the weakening of labour rights. On this subject, it is good not to forget that, when we talk about job insecurity, we are talking about working relations outside the law, we are talking about dealing with the rights of those who work, we are talking about the violation of fundamental rights, we are talking about the degradation of working conditions and we are talking about the increase in levels of exploitation. These are the facts, the numbers are even more cruel. In our country, more than 1 million people work with precarious employment ties, grossly illegal term contracts, green receipts that only disguise a supposed service delivery regime, eternal research grants that no longer aim at perpetuating precariousness and temporary employment contracts, in clear comparison with the most basic labour law rules, because they have nothing temporary. This is the work portrait in our country, a portrait of lies, falsehoods and simulations, with the sole purpose of misleading the unemployment statistics, institutionalizing the work without rights and emphasizing the exploitation of those who work. But it is also a portrait of intervals, because periods of precariousness, short or long, invariably range from periods of unemployment. A few precarious months, a few months without work, this is the pace of life that is imposed on thousands and thousands of workers and that it is important to fight, until, when we fight job insecurity, we are not only fighting lies in labour relations and undermining the rights of those who work, we are also fighting unemployment. Therefore, it is important to respect those who work, restore the truth and at the same time to moralize labor relations. In other words, it is important, above all, to combat job insecurity, to guarantee rights of employment and to ensure that an effective job is also an effective work link. This is the Greens' commitment and it is in this sense that the Greens will continue to work in the field of work. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u342	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating the petitioners, from the outset of the CGTP, and by saying that, from the point of view of the CDS, the subject under discussion usually causes these political-party tensions, and even ideological ones, but this resolves little in the life of who is effectively in this situation. I think that no one can comply with the current situation, particularly those who have ruled unpublishedly over the past four years, with a left-wing majority, and have failed to make a substantial difference in the reality of the precariousness of work in Portugal. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] Not even in the Public Administration where they proposed to solve the problem, they were able to do so. Therefore, our position is the same as we have in the past, that precarious work fights in various ways, including with supervision, which has not improved in the time of the left government. It also fights with the promotion of tripartite agreements in social dialogue, which allow for sufficient stability so that the measures that have been decided can produce results. Because the question is that, often, what, figuratively, the left presents successive times as being the solution of the problem of precariousness in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u344	A problem you've created!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u345	You have already rhetorically solved the problem of precariousness five or six times, but in practice you have never been able to get close to it. The problem is that, in practice, solutions that do not derive from an open, in-depth and consistent social dialogue have later difficulties in being implemented. So, either we realize the importance of this path, and we follow it, or we continue in this political-ideological battle, which does nothing at all, and to unilaterally promote measures that then little change reality. We therefore say that there must first be stability in the evolution of employment, which is positive, but not since the previous legislation. This is a positive development since the government that has changed — it is true! — the laws of work, which you are very critical of, but it was precisely following this amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u346	That wasn't with us! It was before us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u347	That's right! That's what I'm saying. It was before, it was the PSD government / CDS. But I'm saying that! He changed work laws that are criticised either in the PCP project, either in the left block project, but curiously it was following this amendment, with a PSD / CDS government, that the job began to rise. [[PS Members' laughs.]] So, until today, you have to prove that diabolical legislation has actually had the effect that they announced on the labour market because what the data say is that this legislation has made it possible to increase employment in Portugal. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] To date, this cycle has been unstoppable and therefore you will have to prove that some day the legislation you have submitted and eventually approve will have the effect on the labour market which has had that which was approved in the PSD/CDS Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-19.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m. At the first item on the agenda we will hold the elections of the President of the Economic and Social Council and of the elements designated by the Assembly of the Republic for the National Elections Commission, the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. In the second point, we will appreciate Petition No 589 / XIII / 4. a ( José Duarte de Almeida Ribeiro and Castro et al.) — They request the amendment of the Electoral Law of the Assembly of the Republic, advocating the reform of the electoral system. At the third point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 567 / XIII / 4. a (António Mateus Simão da Conceição Ferreira de Carvalho et al.) — They request the adoption of measures to prohibit the herbicide glyphosate in Portugal, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 77 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation to carry out monthly analysis of water intended for human consumption in order to verify the presence of glyphosate, 78 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa for non-marketing herbicides with glyphosate for non-professional uses, 81 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the obligation of analysis to the presence of glyphosate in water intended for human consumption ( third amendment to the Water Quality Scheme for Human consumption approved by Decree-Law No 306 / 2007 of 27 August ), 82 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes ( second amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April) and 83 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the non-professional use of products containing glyphosate ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 101/2009 of 11 May 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No 173/2005 of 21 October 2005) and with Draft Resolution No 21 / XIV/1. a (PEV) — Measures to eradicate the use of glyphosate. At the fourth point, we will appreciate Petition No 513 / XIII / 3. a ( Pedro Choi de Amélia Cordeiro et al.) — Equality in the professional exercise of non-conventional therapists. At the fifth point, we will appreciate Petition No 592 / XIII / 4. a ( Susana Maria de Oliveira Santos et al.) — They request the creation of legislation for places for the reception of farm animals and wild animals, known as sanctuaries or shelters of animal life, together with, in general, the Bill No. 90 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection and 96 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the network of reception and rehabilitation centres for wild and exotic animals and with Resolution Projects Nos 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishment of places for the care of wild animals and fifth-year animals and their legal framework and 82 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a legal framework for breeding sites for farm animals and wild animals. At the sixth point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 599 / XIII / 4. a ( Maria de Lurdes Lopes Pedro et al.) — They request the grant of a convention to the Medical Center for Dialysis of Benedictia, Alcobaça, together with the Draft Resolution No 76 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening of public supply in the area of haemodialysis. Follow-CL, at the seventh point, without time allocated for discussion, the Bill No. 174 / XIV / 1. a ( BE, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PEV ) — Extension of the validity of the Independent Technical Observatory for the analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August. of the eighth point, also without time allocated for discussion, is draft Deliberation No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Budget procedure in the Assembly of the Republic. At the end of the debate, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work. I wish everyone a good return home, taking into account the bad weather that makes them feel. Like the ladies. Members know, it will now take place, in the Hall of Nobre, the traditional Christmas snack of the Assembly of the Republic. Until tomorrow and very good night to everyone. The plenary meeting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 57 minutes.]]
