ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Let's start our session this afternoon. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to announce to the House the legislative initiatives which, in the meantime, have entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u2	Mr. President, I am announcing. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 145 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the restriction of night flights, except for force majeure, 146 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The third amendment is made to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April, determining the impediment of nocturnal mechanized olive harvest with a view to the preservation of avifauna, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 147 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) : — Establish the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals as the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 3. a. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 149 / XIV / 1. a ( CH ) — For the replacement of the legality inherent to the ISV charged to vehicles used from another Member State of the European Union, which falls to 5. the Commission, 150 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government not make any additional contributions to the Resolution Fund, which falls to 5. the Commission, 151 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment of the portal on the sharing of formulas for children with an allergy to cow's milk protein ( APLV ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 15 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends Requalification of Basic School 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, Grouping of Schools Dr. António Augusto Louro, 153 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — On the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August on official animal collection centres and prohibition of slaughter of errant animals, which falls to 7. the Commission, 154 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic abroad during the month of December and 155 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Reversion of this orthographic agreement and return to the old spelling, which falls to 12. the Commission. Finally, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, Draft Rules No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 which falls to 1. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Member. Let us, then, start point one of the agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of Bill 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthening the protection of lawyers in relation to parenthood or serious illness, amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 109 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — regulates labour relations in counseling and 113 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Gives lawyers the prerogative to suspend judicial proceedings in which they are agents or informal defenders in the event of serious illness or exercise of parental rights. To initiate the debate and to present the legislative initiative of the Socialist Party, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor. I am grateful, however, to the House for creating conditions of internal mobility and sound so that everyone can speak and listen properly. Mr. Francisco Oliveira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and, in particular, Mr. Members of the Parliamentary Groups of the Left Block, the PAN and the PS, responsible for parliamentary initiatives relating to the Lein Projects 88, 109 and 113 / XIV / 1. the 14th Parliament and members of the 1. the Commission : These three bills relate to the working conditions of lawyers as liberal professionals and to the difficulties in often ensuring the full exercise of the profession when faced with situations of serious illness or with the occurrence of rights and duties of parenthood and, moreover, with regard to labour relations in law. With regard to questions concerning the suspension of judicial proceedings in the event of serious illness or in the exercise of parental rights, we believe that the PS project is more fair and balanced because it does not lack an agreement between the parties or procedural subjects. It is also important that such suspension only occurs after proof and effective verification of such facts. In short, the suspension cannot and should not be automatic, but must only occur after confirmation of the reasons that support it. We must find the right balance between the rights of lawyers and the principle of procedural speed, the basic principle of effective and constitutionally consecrated justice. The citizen demands rapid justice, and it is therefore essential to exclude from this suspension urgent acts and those which, not being practiced in good time, result in irreparable damage to the process. The allocation of these rights to lawyers, which are in all legitimate, cannot and should not allow the process to be dragged. If, in the civil field, these issues are important, they are of even greater importance in criminal proceedings. For example, the case of defendants arrested or subject to other less severe coercion measures is referred to. For all these reasons, such amendments should be duly assessed and weighed in order to obtain a balanced regime that protects lawyers but avoids the laziness and denial of justice. As regards labour relations in counseling, we believe that there have been changes in the way of its performance, having gone from the old individual practice to the exercise of functions in large companies employing hundreds of lawyers and lawyers-in-laws, which has created a new focus of precariousness, in particular on the form of false green receipts, enhancer of abusive practices and illegality with all the duties of a worker, but no right to cease the employment relationship of these lawyers. It is noted that the profession of lawyer is the only liberal profession with constitutional consecration of public interest and essential to the administration of justice. The regulation of the exercise of counsel is subject to the requirement in the Statute of the Order of Advocates, and these liberal professionals are recognized as a degree of autonomy due to the independence provided for and regulated in the code of ethics reflected in the Statute of the Order of Advocates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u6	In February 2018, the Advocates'Order submitted a proposal for the statute of the lawyer which it is appropriate to take into account. We need to guarantee labour rights to lawyers, but we also need to preserve independence and autonomy that are indispensable to their noble role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u7	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen a profound change in the traditional model of the performance of the advocacy activity. Today, it is not unusual, particularly in large urban centres, to have offices of large companies with tens or even hundreds of lawyers or trainees. That is why, unfortunately, it is not unusual the precariousness that in this professional activity we see fattening with these examples. The objective of our bill is as simple as this: even in the law, where there is a labor relationship, there must be a contract of work. We do not want anyone who sees the fight against precariousness to be half when he arrives at the entrance of a lawyer's office or who excludes a whole professional class from the rights that are recognised to all workers and to all workers. We know that the fight against precariousness in counsel is often resonated with a false argument, which is that of the principle of technical independence. But this is false for three essential reasons: on the one hand, the Statute of the Advocates' Order itself allows employment contracts to exist; on the other hand, it is the Labour Code which affirms the compatibility between the legal subordination and the technical autonomy of the worker; and on the other hand, these employment contracts already exist, although they are not recognised as such. Thus, we have situations of lawyers and lawyers who exercise their profession to the same employer, perform this activity with a fixed income, are subject to a working time, a hierarchical structure, compliance with codes of conduct and are inserted into the organisational structure of society; however, they have no employment contract. Simply put, they have all the duties of a worker, but none of the rights. But we're not the only ones who say it. There are court decisions that demonstrate that it is illegal to have these workers and these workers with green receipts because they should actually have a contract of employment. It's not because they're lawyers or lawyers that the law doesn't apply to them. That is why we see other situations, other abuses of the employer authority before these lawyers and lawyers: dismissals without any kind of compensation or denial of more basic rights, such as time for parenthood or maternity. I believe that if there is a desire to combat precariousness, this will cannot stand aside from what is happening today in the area of law. Therefore, the challenge that is launched to all and to all is that they join the bill of the Left Block to combat the precariousness of lawyers and lawyers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u9	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2009 a diploma entered into force which constituted an important advance in the rights of lawyers in the case of maternity, paternity and mourning, allowing the possibility of these professionals to postpone procedural acts in the situations described. It follows that this diploma is not sufficient to solve the central problem, which is the lack of rights of these professionals in certain circumstances. Consider the case of maternity, for example. The postponement of procedural acts is allowed during the first month for a maximum period of 60 days. So, what about during the period of breastfeeding? And the importance of the children’s first moments of life be lived in families? Will lawyers have fewer rights than other workers? The inevitability of lawyers does not have the same rights in parenthood, due to the nature of their functions as liberal professionals, does not mean that other rights with easier resolution should not be guaranteed, as are those we are discussing today. We are aware of cases in which lawyers, having not succeeded in replacing them in a trial hearing and being in breast-feeding, had to take their newborn children to the court building so that they could breastfeed them at the time of the hearing. This is worthy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Is this fair? After all, what Christmas policies do we intend to have? Advocates and lawyers who practise the profession alone are especially vulnerable in cases of serious illness or maternity. We therefore propose that a full-scale waiver of activity be allowed to cover necessarily the suspension of deadlines for all procedural acts within a maximum period of 60 days. It is the same amplitude that we want with the presentation of this initiative, since, in our view, there must be an appropriate conjugation between the desirable speed of justice and other basic rights of this professional class, especially in maternity and paternity or serious disease. Let us not forget that, before they are lawyers, these professionals are men and women with the same needs and rights as each one of us. We conclude with the note that the provision of these rights does not prejudice the powers of the representative to sub-establish the mandate in accordance with the law, nor the freedom of choice of the agent by the commander. We are aware that this solution does not solve the whole problem, but it is certainly another step in guaranteeing more rights for these professionals. The lawyers are a fundamental part of defending the rights and guarantees of all people, but we cannot forget that they are also citizens and citizens who need the same protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the stage of the debate. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. of the three projects that are presented today, there is one that stands out, which is the one of the Left Block and unfortunately is not for the positive. If there are already, as the honourable Members claim. Members, real employment contracts between lawyers and lawyers, so they can already see these rights that they have in the Labour Code. And if you don't trust me to tell you that the current Labour Code is insufficient, I hope you trust the Supreme Court — and I have at least two agreements confirming it here — but if you don't trust the Court, perhaps the Left Block trusts the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers), whose opinion in relation to this same project, in the past legislature, confirms what we are exposing, i.e. that this project is useless. If it can be difficult for some workers in this situation to recognize their rights, this is not due to lack of legal protection, but rather to the slowness and excessive bureaucracy of justice, which worsens from year to year. In terms of labour relations of lawyers, we would like to propose amending the Codes of Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure in order to implement Decree-Law No 131/2009 and to avoid discrimination among all those working in the courts and confer on lawyers rights in relation to parenthood and serious disease. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the bills submitted by the PS and the NAP and will vote against the bill submitted by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u13	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On matters relating to the exercise of counsel and its Statute, we have three legislative initiatives here today, two of which aim to solve one problem and the other has to do with another issue which is different. Starting with the draft laws, one, submitted by the Socialist Party and another by the NAP, I would like to say that both of them pose a problem with our procedural laws, either the Code of Civil Procedure or the Code of Criminal Procedure, which does not take into account the flexibility that should exist in relation to the procedural deadlines, when it is not urgent, to deal with situations where the lawyer who should be present in certain proceedings suffers from a serious illness or is in a situation of motherhood. In fact, the procedural laws do not take this situation into account when they should have, and therefore these initiatives, in order to provide our procedural legislation with the flexibility necessary to deal with situations of these which are obviously most justified, are welcome, and the draft laws provide for the need for a concrete justification of the situations so that they can be met. These initiatives will thus be welcomed. The bill submitted by the Left Block has to do with another matter, which is to know how it is that the liberal nature of the profession of counsel is reconciled with the situations of lawyers who perform their legal activity on behalf of others. It is a very relevant problem, since it seems obvious that if a lawyer has a contract of employment with a business entity and exercises before the courts, in particular, his activity as a lawyer, there must be no confusion between his status as a subordinate worker, having a contract of employment, and his activity as a lawyer, which is incompatible with any legal subordination with his or her freedom and independence in the exercise of his or her profession. Therefore, what is needed is to reconcile the Statute of the Advocates' Order and the Statute of the Advocate, as a judicial agent, in which he has to have his technical independence and his perfectly ensured legal independence, and the situation of legal subordination inherent to the contract of employment, and since there is a contract of work, it is necessary to safeguard the rights of that lawyer as a worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u16	Both the legal nature of the profession of lawyer and the legal nature of the individual employment contract and the rights that the worker has as such are worthy of protection, and this is unfortunately a relatively new situation in so far as it relates to a situation of increasing dependence and precarious exercise of counsel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u17	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u18	So here is a conciliation problem that makes all the sense that the legislator looks at him, works on him and finds just solutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u19	Mr André Neves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Although the initiatives in question are to be praised, the fact is that the draft laws presented here do not cover all the complexity of the exercise of counsel or so little of our judicial world on these issues in particular, in two very specific points which I would like to stress. As far as the Socialist Party's bill is concerned, it does not seem reasonable to us that it should be made dependent on the opposite side of the quote for the suspension of the instance, until, I know - well, in most cases there are conflicting interests between the parties and, in this particular case, we could end up harming who we really want to benefit from these bills. The second point relates to the question of serious illness, its classification, its definition, the concept, what is and what is not the question of impediment to the normal exercise of the mandate. These are issues that need some density, to be seen with some depth, so I hope that we can all find solutions together so that these projects can effectively reach a good port. In the face of a question that deserves our attention—I specifically refer to the projects of the Socialist Party and the PAN, because the one of the Left Block, as has already been said here, deals with completely different issues—we must all together find the balance that guarantees the preponderant interests, as the Socialist Party's Member has already said, of the procedural speed and effectiveness of justice, but also ensure the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of the class that is completely unprotected. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who say that, to some extent, it seems, or at least, there is the idea that trying to hide or ignore, in a certain way, the real problems of lawyers or, at least, what is the essence of these problems, the priorities of these problems for lawyers, and that, in particular, from our point of view, they relate to two very simple and very concrete things: first, the appreciation of the role of the lawyer and the informal defender as regards the reimbursement of his work in terms of the informal sponsorship — of course; secondly, and not least importantly, a contribution regime guaranteeing genuine social protection for lawyers. We are talking about a class that, in case of parenthood and disease, is lacking conditions for the normal and permanent exercise of its work, instead of receiving, continues to contribute, it continues to pay. This must not continue to happen and it must concern everyone. from PSD, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter to which we are giving due attention and for which we will not fail to find solutions that respond to the real problems and aspirations of a class which, I repeat, is completely unprotected in social terms for a long time. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u21	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, firstly, that if, on the one hand, these draft laws, starting with the Socialist Party, bring a real concern to which, obviously, we cannot stop being sensitive, on the other hand, there is the question of whether or not they have the best solution to this concern or whether or not they solve that same concern. Add Article 7. o -A to the Code of Criminal Procedure and a Article 272. The Civil Procedure Code is here at the heart of the amendment — i.e. to allow lawyers who, in case of illness, in case of force majeure, in situations such as those that have even come to the public and were discussed in public opinion and in the media, and who are worrying, can be given a response to these problems no one of good sense can be against. The question is, as has been said here, and I agree — whether we should not work in another sense, i.e. whether the social protection regime of a profession, which is a liberal profession and which must, in essence, continue to be a liberal profession, is sufficient or not, whether the State should or should not ensure that this regime is sufficient and effective, until it is, in a profession which is regulated, such as counseling, compulsory and resulting from the law and therefore should be effective in that same protection. This case, as has also been said and I agree, may in some cases result in a false solution, because, when it is made dependent on the opposite side, the solution may be or may not be there, i.e. the opposite part, depending on the procedural interest, may or may not grant that possibility of postponement. Therefore, it is at least an incomplete solution or it does not guarantee that the matter can be resolved. Two more concerns I would like to mention. First, I share the opinion that has already been issued here in relation to the bill of the Left Block. We can distinguish situations, as Mr António Filipe said, we can treat as contractual obligations, within the framework of labour law, those which are obligations of labour law, but, in essence, the profession of lawyer is a liberal profession, must continue to be a liberal profession, regulated by an order with compulsory registration and we must protect this kind of liberal profession. One last question, which I think will have to be taken into account and which may certainly be in the field of expertise, is how this concern is compatible, or not, with what is the constant concern of each debate on justice we have in this Parliament, which is that of speed and the fight against laziness in justice. Because there can obviously be a contradiction that is, as it says, and well, the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, in relation to the victims, but also in relation to customers in general, who wants to see justice done and who needs to be able to see justice done and in a rapid time. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u23	For a second intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speeches made by all the parliamentary committees and point out that there is, by the way, consensus on the problem. We now have to see ways to solve it and we are available to, in the field of expertise, welcome and listen to all positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u25	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a matter that obliges us all to think deeply about one of the classes that has been most whipped in Portugal with the phenomenon of precariousness. This is the word we have to use: precariousness. Despite the solution and the profession of an eminently liberal nature, today we have thousands of lawyers who face extremely difficult personal situations to which the law today does not answer. Having said this, it must be said that the solutions presented here go on a satisfactory but still very insufficient path, and that if, on the one hand, the liberal nature of the lawyer can never be lost, it cannot also be ignored that many of these men and women work every day under often difficult conditions, under conditions often similar to those who have a contract similar to another type of employee and are treated as if they were a kind of third-party employee, so neither one nor the other. And that has to end. Therefore, what is fundamental in the perspective of arriving is a national plan to effectively end this type of precariousness in all liberal professions and not only in this specific case.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u28	Mr President, it is only to reinforce that there is no homogeneity between the lawyer's situation. There is no homogeneity and, especially, an area prone to precariousness, it is obvious that labour relations need to be regulated. We shall therefore vote in favour of the initiatives put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u29	For a second intervention, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us talk about assistance in disease or parenthood necessarily leads us to a debate on the case of lawyers and solicitors (CPAS ). For these professionals and implementing agents, there is a fundamental debate on the lack of support in situations of disease or parenthood, but also on the sustainability of the CPAS, due to the high values that are required to discount to the CPAS, whether they have income or not. Therefore, from this point of view, the Left Block delivered today a draft resolution to study the possibility of integrating in social security to CPAS and to evaluate the benefits of this situation to the State, to social security, to CPAS and to professionals. But we understand ourselves about the subject of precariousness. Of course, we have no doubt about the decisions of the courts — I have mentioned them in my first speech — and they are all unanimous in indicating when there is a situation of irregularity. When there is a planned hierarchy or working time or subordination within the workplace, this is a contract of work and has to be associated and, if not, is illegal. But let's not fool ourselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u31	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. If we do not act and if we do not foresee this thoroughly in the law, what we will see today is the reality: illegality in large offices and large law firms. I believe that if we want to combat precariousness, we cannot let it remain as it is today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u33	To close this debate, Mr Francisco Oliveira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To waste time, we would like to thank the recognition of the relevance of our bill to the Members. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo and Mr António Filipe, and others. Mr André Neves and Mr Telmo Correia, who raise questions but admit the need to respond to the problem. In fact, as it is customary to say, 'Rome and Pavia have not been made in one day' and 'The way is going' and, although we advocate that it is essential to listen to the other partners in the debate on this issue, it is also important to take into account all the actors of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u35	Please finish your speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u36	We cannot be subject to a matter of mere legislative law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u37	We are thus finishing the first point on our agenda. The second point consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos.83/XIV/1.a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government that it adopt a programme to support truly national and territorially fair mobility, 102 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the effective implementation of the Tax Reduction Support Programme ( PART) throughout the national territory, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Effective promotion of collective transport throughout the national territory and 107 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government study and develop conditions for increased deductions of transport charges to taxpayers resident in inland territories. To initiate the debate and present the legislative initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD fully agreed with the programme to reduce the cost of social passes, but always pointed out two criticisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u39	You agreed to what? They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u40	The first criticism is that the cost of this measure is paid by all Portuguese, but it benefits only a few, not treating all our citizens equally—some have almost everything, others have almost nothing. In the Beers, in the Min, in the Alentejo, in the Tres-os-Montes and in the Algarve, the reduction happens, it is true, but for the use of public transport that do not exist. It's the same as giving 5 € to a poor person and telling him to go buy an apartment. The apartment will never be bought! The second criticism is that, even in the metropolitan areas, the government put the carriage in front of the oxen, i.e., reduced the price of the passes, but did not increase the offer of transport, which in many cases are still of the last century, and the only thing it did was to remove banks from the transports there more people standing. Therefore, the PSD is motivated by the principle that mobility is, after all, for everyone. Those who do not have metro or means of transport of Carris, Soflusa or Transtejo, however, have the same right to travel, even if it is by individual transport. So be it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as compensatory measures for the interior territories, we propose that the Government, point one, reduce by 50 % the prices of tolls in the ex-SCUT(without user costs) for all combustion vehicles and 75 % for electric vehicles, thus increasing the reduction of emissions in which our country is betting ; point two, reduces by 50 % the price of tickets for interregional, regional and inter-connected trains; point three, encourages on request transport — a taxi, for example — by subsidizing its cost. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are confident that all parliamentary groups are with us, demonstrating that they are even bet on wanting to attenuate — and not worsen — inequalities between people and regions. It is also this that the country in all its needs, as bread for the mouth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u41	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mobility and public transport in our country are fundamental themes for the coming times. from the part of the Left Block, we know and know which side we are on: we are on the side of who built and approved the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u43	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u44	From the very first moment, we have pointed out what we considered could be obstacles or problems to be solved. From then on, the articulation and harmonization of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction throughout the national territory. In order to solve these problems, we presented a project, in January 2019, which was approved in February of that year, with votes against only the Socialist Party. At the time, we said that it was necessary to ensure mechanisms for investment in the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) to reach everyone, to respond to movements between inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas and to movements between inter-municipal communities and thus harmonise tariff reduction. Today, we look at the demands of the users of the Western Intermunicipal Community and we realize that we were right to ask for these harmonisation mechanisms; we look at the users of the Port Metropolitan Area who do not yet have the familiar pass, but we see that the Lisbon ones have already had it since June. We also said that it was necessary to ensure that investment looks at the future at infrastructure, particularly on the train and on the boats. Today, we look at the users of the lines of Sintra or Santarém or the boat users for the crossing of the Tagus and we realize that we were right to ask for this investment, which is already an emergency. We did so right now, from the outset, because anyone who wants to build a more coherent country territorially, more resilient in the fight against climate change, more fair in access to public transport had an obligation to do. Again, in February this year, only the Socialist Party voted against this project. We know that if one third of the pendulum displacements in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto have origin or destination outside these areas, this reality was in fact not covered by the PART and therefore it was necessary to approve this project. The Left Block was the only party that presented proposals to correct these inequalities and continues to do so with the project under discussion today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not come to the debate today nor have we been reminded of defending a measure that has advantages for families. We have always been here with criticism, but also with proposals to solve the problems, and, since the adoption of the previous resolution, few steps have been taken. We therefore believe that we need to confirm that the priority is even public transport and that everything will be done not to boycott this programme through the lack of funding. We know that on the side of the Socialist Party, contrary to what happened in February 2019, we need the responsibility to effectively follow this proposal. We also know that on the part of the PSD, in recent times, we have seen attempts at acrobatics that could be laudable, not the fact that one has voted against the programme ; two have been one of the precursors of privatization of public transport in Portugal ; and three have been responsible for increasing the cost of the passes last time they were government. Therefore, the Portuguese know what the projects are today under discussion that respond to their demands in mobility and public transport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u45	To present the legislative initiative of the Green Party, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With a view to promoting collective mobility, the Greens Ecological Party has, over time, been defending and presenting a set of measures, such as improving and extending the intermodal social pass; socially fair prices; increasing the supply, quality, comfort and security of collective transport, with timetables tailored to the needs of the population; hiring the necessary workers and combating the privatization of the transport sector, among many others. It is precisely in this sense that the Greens today bring another initiative to promote collective mobility for discussion. We insist on this because we do not ignore that the transport sector is the main responsible for the country's high energy consumption, with a very significant weight in greenhouse gas emissions and the threat of climate change which is undoubtedly associated with it. Therefore, from here also comes the importance of promoting collective transport, essentially from the railway, which, as you know, is more friendly to the environment, with a view to reducing the import of fossil fuels, the targets of decarbonization assumed by the country and its contribution to defeat regional asymmetries. In fact, the success which, in so little time, is already visible in the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in public transport calls for us to take steps to empower it, not only from the social point of view, with very positive reflections on family budgets, but also because of its importance in reducing greenhouse gases and in combating climate change. It is recalled that since the implementation of the new tariff system between April and October 2019 more than 52 million and 400 thousand passengers have been transported compared to the same period of 2018, which represents an increase of almost 20 %. Since the entry into force of the family pass, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in August 2019 5700 family aggregates were covered, corresponding to about 27 000 people. Therefore, after this start, we cannot miss the train and therefore it is necessary to extend the PART to the rest of the territory, because populations in the most disadvantaged regions, in terms of transport, also need mobility. If there is no offer of collective transport, it is necessary to work to make this offer a reality where it is necessary. in this sense, the ART must also assume itself as a mechanism of territorial cohesion that guarantees equity throughout the national territory, but it is still necessary to invest seriously on the supply side, so that collective transport can give adequate response to the needs of citizens, in terms of comfort, regularity, security, at socially fair prices, so that citizens can see, in collective transport, a real alternative to the use of private car. The PART therefore indicates a rupture with the policy of de-investment in recent decades, with a particular incidence during the PSD/CDS government, in which we witnessed gross price increases, the degradation of supply and quality, the suppression of careers, the reduction of the speed of the Lisbon Metropolitan compositions and the increase of waiting time, the non-purchasing of circulating material, the reduction of the number of workers, as well as the preparation of transport companies for their privatization, a situation that was only possible to reverse at the beginning of the previous legislation, also with the contribution of the Ecologist Party « Os Verdes ». Finally, it is also important to bear in mind the need to abolish the existing tolls in the sections corresponding to the ex-SCUT, because its introduction was a great injustice for the affected populations and a harsh blow to the economic fabric — above all, with strong penalties for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises — which have aggravated the already difficult living conditions of all those who, without alternatives, circulate on these roads daily. These are the proposals that the Greens are bringing today for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u47	To present also the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS initiative has as its main concern what has already been discussed here today with regard to the PART, but which is not only resolved by the PART, as is aggravated by the PART. Now, for you to know, we are talking about public transport and tariff reduction. Why does this instrument not only solve the problem as aggravating it? Of course, because one of its main purposes is indisputable at the present time. In view of the fact that the tariff reduction in public transport may bring the population of the interior and the coast closers, it is assumed that there is some similarity between the supply of public transport on the coast and the supply of public transport on the interior, which does not exist in any way. Therefore, the question here is not what the government, illustriously, has always tried to make believe, saying that the PART was not only to benefit the large metropolitan areas, because it could also be applied to the other territories, especially to the interior regions. And you don't have to go inside to figure out where the PART isn't applied fairly, just go, for example, to Torres Vedras. You don't have to go far to realize the iniquity of the PART. In addition, it is sufficient to look at the budget for this year to realize that more than 80 % of the funds allocated to the PART are for the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto and that even among these, the funds allocated to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon are much higher than those planned for the Metropolitan Area of Porto. Therefore, this is a positive instrument for public transport users, where they exist, is certainly not an instrument of territorial justice among the national population. That is why we need to find another way to do justice for those who cannot benefit from this program, and that is what introduces the CDS draft resolution. If, inside, the distance is, of course, an exclusion factor, public transport does not exist, the tolls were introduced by those who said they would not exist...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u49	You didn't take them either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u50	... and, obviously, not only do people have to move more as they pay more to be able to travel, if at the time the State is concerned about the issue of the use of public transport benefits a part of the country with the PART and with social passes, we need to know how we will compensate those who do not have social pass for the only and exclusive reason that they do not have public transport and therefore would have no use to give to this social pass, even if it existed. from our point of view, this compensation should be made by means of tax and, therefore, what we propose in our draft resolution is the introduction, within IRS, of the possibility of spending on the use of transport to those who live in the interior. And if we complement a social pass support measure where they exist with a tax deduction measure for those who live inside and cannot use public transport, because they do not exist, we are effectively developing a mobility policy for the whole country. Otherwise, we have a policy that is good for the citizens but which is good for only part of these citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u51	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, the PART led to an increase in demand for which the offer was not prepared. What happened was typically socialist: lower prices by decree before the elections to win a vote and then you see it. And what do you see? What you see is the number of complaints from citizens to shoot at the Complaints Portal ; what you see are metro stations full of people who can't get into the carriages to land ; what you see are delayed and overcrowded buses and that therefore don't stop at the stops ; what you see are people dissatisfied with trains and works on the late railway, despite the monthly PS announcements ; what you see are the citizens of Moncorvo, Monforte or Monchique paying 90 cents per litre of fuel so that the government can offer cheap transport to the citizens of the metropolitan areas, where 85 % of the PART budget is and, not by coincidence, much of the votes. Unfortunately, what is not seen is the government moving to change this. We, in the Liberal Initiative, agree with the promotion of collective transport, which can perfectly be provided by private people, as is the case for this Europe outside, and even in Portugal and in some sites successfully. The Liberal Initiative will always be here to put citizens first and expose socialist propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u53	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u54	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : I began by saying to Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo that he did not have it as such a reliable user of public transport, but we are aware that the Liberal Initiative is concerned about the much action the Government has taken. In fact, let me tell you the following: we make many lists of climate concerns, but what we know today is that if carbon dioxide, on a global scale, is the exaltation of a society that decided to evolve without criteria, in a capitalist and ultra-liberal way — perhaps the one that loves it — the truth is that Portugal represents, in this metaphor, the oxygen of those who had the courage to act, the oxygen of those who had the courage to be a surfer and who was the first nation, the nation-action, that assumed, first of all, in the world, that would be neutral from a carbonic point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's talk about transport, because you have mentioned some realities that clearly do not know, which, in fact, on the right hand, has been quite common. The transport sector accounts for 24 % of greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the left acted, at the time when it had to act, on the side of the one who was universal access to transport, so that it could reduce individual transport, which, in fact, in the various projects that are under consideration records some deviations, from the part of those who speak in environment on Friday, but then, during the rest of the month, comes to stimulate individual transport. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u55	But let me also tell you that today we are talking about the PART, knowing that this measure has been in force for nine months. And we know more, sirs. Members, we know that this measure will have an annual evaluation by the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ). So the debate that everyone has called, from left to right, is hasty, because we could have waited another three months and we would discuss what is necessary, with data. But the Socialist Party presents itself, without a problem, to hold the debate. And, regarding the success of this measure, we are talking in two dimensions: there are 2 metropolitan areas and 21 CIM(intermunicipal communities). We also want to go further, but we say 'no' to those who entered today and come to ask for more ambition, as is the case with the PSD, which, contrary to what Mr Peixoto, recently had the opportunity to say, did not agree with this measure, voted against, Mr Peixoto. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u56	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u57	But the ultraliberal PSD, which voted against everything, is very different from this PSD we have here today, and we never know what PSD we can count on. But still, we smile in front of contradiction and welcome, because one thing was unanimous in this House: everyone agrees that this measure is a success and the only thing we discuss is whether or not it should go further. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] And the Socialist Party is in a position to say yes, that it must go further; it was for our action that it has advanced and it will also be for our action that will go further. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to end by leaving only one announcement which seems to me of the greatest importance: in the State budget which we will soon be discussing, this programme will be strengthened by the annualisation of the measure, which will be at least EUR 20 million, i.e. to a bet of EUR 104 million we will still add EUR 20 million to the annualisation of the measure. Yes, we are in the right direction, it was with the Socialist Party that we placed on public transport and, Mr. Left-wingers, the left cannot question what the left-wing has achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u59	Therefore, they are also called upon not to give in to the traps of this right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u60	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the NAP, we recognize the importance of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction as an instrument for combating climate change and at the same time promoting territorial cohesion and the recovery of family income. We have no doubt that this is a successful mobility bet, but it still needs to be improved. From then on, improved the level of implementation in the territory, insofar as it currently leaves out a considerable part of the population living in low-density territories or in areas with less frequent pendulum movements. It is urgent to rethink how this Programme responds to movements between or between inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas, as we are particularly sensitive to the needs of populations who do not reside or move in these areas. Even at the level of implementation in the territory, it is also urgent to begin to build a response for populations not covered by it, or which are insufficiently covered by the ART, through full investment, possibly public, in quality transport and environmentally sustainable. It is unacceptable for populations to continue to be called upon to support a programme of which they do not enjoy, at the same time as seeing the costs of individual transport increasing. in this particular, we are naturally favorable and are available to contribute to options that immediately respond to the needs of the populations, as long as they do not address the necessary ongoing decarbonization. But we must also improve the PART where it is consolidated, read, in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. We believe it is important to carry out the Family Pass in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, like what has already happened in Lisbon. We also consider it important to invest so that the existing offer is of quality and is not adversely affected, as has happened, by over-supply, which also favours the comfort, security and trust of users, especially in terms of time and geographical area covered by transport. Finally, it is essential to ensure that the PART does not exclude persons with special needs, such as persons with reduced or conditional mobility, and that serious investment should also be made in the elimination of the many still existing obstacles to the supply of public transport. It is unacceptable that, for example, in Lisbon, there are still so many metro stations with hospital units that are not equipped with elevators or lift platforms. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PART is not, yet far from being, a finished work of which we can all be proud of, but it is surely a valid and necessary tool to which we must invest, and that is what the NAP will continue to do. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u62	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, also has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that there is a misunderstanding in this discussion that would be interesting to clarify, which has to do with how the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction is in force throughout the country, but is not being applied equally throughout the country. The Tax Reduction Support Programme is not only valid for the metropolitan areas and it was proposed by the PCP, with the vote against the PSD, that it was possible to strengthen the State budget to ensure that there were money for the entire national territory, something that had not happened before, because it was only for a part of the territory. Today it is not so, the problem is that the inter-municipal communities are neither by choice, nor, often by means, in conditions of application in the same way, which causes a lot of people in this country who do not have access to public transport in the same way as other citizens. But it is not only from Mafra to Setúbal that it is possible today to have a pass with a cost of 40 €, or 20 € for the reformed. Maybe the gentlemen. Members do not know, but the same already happens, for example, between Alcácer do Sal and Odemira, because there, at CIM do Alentejo Litoral, the persistence and work of the CDU's authorships also yielded fruit. It is therefore not only in Lisbon and Porto that this measure is in force, but also in Alentejo that is possible. Another thing that's different is what happens in relation to rail transport, and we'll be there by now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What is already possible today is the pendulum shift, for example, from Alcácer do Sal to Lisbon, which cost €153 and now costs €40. This makes a lot of difference in people's lives! And, contrary to what has been said here, the CFP has not ceased to submit proposals, either in the previous one or in the current legislature, in order to promote the measures necessary to include in the tariff reduction many citizens who daily use connections between regions and metropolitan areas bordering them. I spoke recently about the Coastal Alentejo in relation to Lisbon, but I could also talk about this region in relation to the Algarve, for example, where this measure is already in force as well. But in rail links the transport authority is the Government, and not the CIMs, therefore it is the Government's first and fundamental response for the tariff reduction to take place in this area, which is not happening, in particular between Aveiro and Porto, or between Thamega and Sousa and Porto, or between the Central and Lisbon Alentejo. Therefore, the CFP reaffirms its willingness to contribute to the debate and to an intervention by the Assembly of the Republic that gives greater strength to the response that has to be given to the concrete problems facing the populations. And in due course we will also discuss the CFP proposals here, including draft Law No 9 / XIV / 1. a and Resolution Projects Nos 161 and 162 / XIV / 1. a. On the other hand, the proposals of the PSD and the CDS are a mixture of adjustment of accounts with the tariff reduction and this reversal that was made in the unbearable increases that they decreed in transport, with an unreasonable set of unfair measures without grounds or cabbage. The solutions that the CFP defends in relation to public transport and tariff reduction are essentially related to the need to strengthen and stabilize the financing of this measure, so that it no longer depends on each budgetary debate, year after year, but also on the necessary investment that we have always claimed and that the PSD, the CDS, but also the PS government, have postponed and blocked.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u64	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u65	I will finish, Mr. President. We must invest in fleets and infrastructures, we must admit missing personnel, we must reactivate links that have been withdrawn from privatisations. Mr President, for those who speak of the return on investment in transport as an oxygen, it is still noted, PS Member, that there is a lot of air in there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u66	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the presentation of these initiatives, especially for their view of combating climate change. I would like to point out that we cannot talk about the reduction in transport prices or the need to extend this measure without referring to housing, without referring to employment and without referring to the real need for an increase in national minimum wage. It is insufficient to reduce pass prices if we do not fight real estate speculation and if there is no regulation of the lease market, so it would be useful to combine these needs with the absolute urgency of increasing the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u68	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that I did not understand very well the speech of the honourable Member who has just spoken about real estate speculation and the question of transport, but I will still try to reach some conclusion about it in the afternoon. Neither did I understand very well — and I think a certain grace to that — the fact that the honourable Members do not understand. Members of the Communist Party attack the Socialist Party as if they had nothing to do with what has happened with transport in the past four years. I heard someone from the Communist Party say that it was safe now that the family pass in Porto was to move forward, that it was assured. Well, until today, what do we have? We have the government to say that it still doesn't know whether or not it's going to fund the family pass in Porto. And what does the PCP say about this? Nothing! And he points his finger to his right, to the Socialist Party. I also liked to hear Mr André Pinotes Batista say that to the right of Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo no one understands anything about transport. In fact, when we look from here, who is on the right of Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo is the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party. [[PS protests.]] That is right, because, in fact, Prime Minister Antonio Costa said, in September: "Don't worry..." [[PS protests.]] Can I talk or not? Mr. President, may I conclude? [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u70	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u71	I know the truth is hard to hear, but you have to be heard, Mr President. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] In September, Prime Minister Antonio Costa said: « Don't worry, because there will be a large increase in the supply of transport». We were about a month from the election. What do we have today? Promises of more trains, I don't know where... and in the State budget what we have, what are we going to have? Let's see, but apparently nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u72	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. What question is this: the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Free are sleeping to bring this State budget down or waiting for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u74	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the speeches of all parliamentary groups, there is a question that arises and will be decisive in voting on all these projects. On the one hand, it is essential to know whether anyone who says that the PART is the solution for all mobility issues is or is not available — and let's see this in the State Budget — is or is not committed to solving all the problems that continue to exist. But there is a more important question. Mr Bruno Dias said that the solution was to reactivate lines, introduce compositions. Mr President, and during this time the citizens of the interior will continue to pay for the passage of the coast and will they be waiting for the train? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u76	Don't be demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u77	You have to tell us! It's just that they're already paying, but they don't have public transport. So, the only solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u78	Don't be demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u79	It's not demagogy, sir! The only solution is to tell the citizens of the interior how, with fairness, they have the same benefit as the citizens of the coast.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u80	The gentlemen have privatized the National Road and ordered to close the lines!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u81	As has already been said, it is not worth having a policy where there are a lot of votes and having a different policy where there is less. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u82	Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u83	Mr. President, BE had already registered Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u84	Mr Peixoto, I am sorry, but since you were the first speaker, you will speak at the end of this debate. Thus, the next intervention lies with Mrs Isabel Pires. You have the floor, Your Honor. I'm sorry I'm so sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate will be held several times in this Parliament, it is very important, but there are two issues that are absolutely fundamental to realise from now on, which have to do with mobility policy. The proposals presented here by the PSD and the CDS have a completely contrary logic to that which has been spoken. Why? They're talking about tolls, but we're going to see how the PSD and CDS are going to vote on the proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u86	You're going to vote for them tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u87	... that the Left Block has already submitted regarding the elimination of the tolls, because that, yes, is what makes a difference in people's lives. Secondly, these proposals have a clear paradigm for promoting transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u88	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. These proposals have a clear paradigm of promoting road transport, unlike rail transport, of the investment that is necessary in this regard. But we know that PSD and CDS only talk about climate change from mouth out, because then they're going to promote the road. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u90	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u91	I'm done, Mr. President. For the PART and for the public investment, the Left Block presented, from the outset, the project that was approved. The PS voted against and it's important to see if this time it's going to vote in favour. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u92	Now, yes, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me focus on the debate. I would like to speak in a very clear way about a proposal on which, tomorrow, you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members and parliamentary groups must either vote or not or « nil».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u94	You too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u95	The proposal on the table is that you should say whether or not the government should reduce the price of tolls in the ex-SCUT by 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u96	They must be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u97	If the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party want to be consistent with what they promised in the election campaign,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u98	... saying that they wanted to reduce or exempt from tolls the White Castle district, saying that they wanted to reduce or exempt from tolls the Guard district, now have the opportunity to show your courage, to show whether they have it or not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u99	Tomorrow, to show that you have this courage, you have to vote in favour of our project! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u100	The Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block are in the same position. You have already put forward proposals here to reduce the price of tolls...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u101	They were to get rid of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u102	... or to abolish them, but when they do so, the following week they vote in favour of the Budget, which has included the revenues of these tolls. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u103	Let's see what happens tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u104	That is the political hypocrisy of the left parliament in Portugal, and that is why we are insurmounting ourselves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u105	You just don't know what consistency is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u106	We move on to the third point of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 3 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Nationality Act and the Regulation of the Registers and Notary ( the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and the thirty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ), 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( makes the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ), 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality ) and 126 / XIV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ). Opening the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today presenting this bill because in Portugal there are people who are foreign in their own country. Many children and daughters of immigrants, even though they were born here, continue without access to Portuguese nationality, thus being deprived of fundamental citizenship rights. The Left Block has over time made a firm commitment to correct this historical injustice because, like Angela Davis, we no longer accept the things we cannot change and we are committed to changing the things we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u109	We tabled proposals for amending the Nationality Act in 2003, 2005, 2013 and 2017. Today we reiterate our understanding that it must be the principle of informing a law of nationality appropriate to the reality of a cosmopolitan and different country, that we are and we want to be. Whoever is born in Portugal must be Portuguese or Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This has been the determined struggle of anti-racist organizations in the defense of human rights and citizenship, a struggle to which the Block has always joined. In the last legislation, access to nationality was extended originating for children and daughters of immigrants, as well as the list of cases where nationality by descent may be requested. These were changes that were supported by the Left Block. These are changes that allowed thousands of people to obtain Portuguese nationality, not only descendants of immigrants born in our country, but also grandchildren of Portuguese born abroad and descendants of the Sephardite Jews expelled from Portugal in the 15th and 16th centuries. These measures have allowed not only to correct historical injustices, but also to reflect the diversity of the national community. But it's not enough. Despite the advances, the law continues not to unequivocally enshrine the principle of soil law and, by not providing for retroactive effects, it left behind thousands of children and daughters of immigrants, who were born here, who grew up here, who study and build all their socialization networks, who contribute with the strength of their work and taxes for the country's wealth. Obtaining Portuguese nationality is an ambition for many of them. But it's a dream that gets too often in a bureaucratic and legal wall that denies them rights and their belonging to the national community. It is urgent to repair this injustice. It is a democratic imperative to ensure the automatic allocation of Portuguese nationality to all persons born in Portugal, regardless of the nationality and legal status of their parents. in this same sense, it is enshrined in this bill the guarantee of the allocation of Portuguese nationality to all persons born in Portugal from 1981 who were deprived of access to Portuguese nationality. Finally, we cannot continue to accept that access to nationality is dependent on the payment of exorbitant fees that many families are unable to pay. That is why we propose that the value of emoluments for this purpose be equal to the value defined for the issue or replacement of the citizen card.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u111	Nationality is not a luxury, it is a right. [[Applause from BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u112	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nationality is one of the main traces of identity of all human beings, since it carries with it a link of integration to a state and its culture. In recent years, there have been several advances that we have achieved in the area of nationality in our country, which has allowed Portugal to be placed on the front line of countries with more favourable and inclusive models, both in terms of allocation and acquisition of nationality. We believe that the progress made today is more effective in responding to existing issues of nationality, and there is still a time-consuming situation that can be corrected, such as the one that the NAP refers to in its initiative. It is intended to correct what we report as a situation of injustice that exists in relation to a number of citizens born in national territory between 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law, to whom this diploma did not recognize the right to Portuguese nationality, which has therefore empowered non-documentation situations that contributed to the ostracization of these citizens and to their social exclusion. This is therefore the correction of a historical error, like others we have already been able to correct, which does not entail a structural change in legislation, so we are sure that it is the common objective of all political forces — at least so it should be — to respond firmly to the situations of injustice identified. The truth is that at a time when a few months have passed since the last legislative amendment to the Nationality Law, the initiatives that today are brought to debate by the Left Block, the CFP and the Free Book reopen the debate around the paradigm shift in the matter of nationality allocation, something that the NAP has difficulty in understanding and monitoring, and this is however available to deepen its discussion, particularly at technical level in the field of expertise, particularly with regard to the CFP initiative. With regard to the initiatives of the Bloc and the Free, the scope of these initiatives, in particular because of the non-requirement of any link to the country other than the mere place of birth, is worthy of us. For the NAP, this requirement per se is insufficient, insofar as we consider it to be demanding an effective link to the country and that it is not only the result of a mere passage to the allocation of nationality, but also the result of the feeling of belonging to a particular place in this case Portugal, to which security issues are added, which also need to be guarded. in another prism, the NAP is sensitive to situations of injustice caused by the lack of legal residency and therefore favourable to the creation of incentives for the integration and fixing of immigrants in our country, something not only necessary to combat the problems of desertification and birth, but also a manifestation of compassion and justice for the next. We believe, however, that the answer is made with a review of the Immigration Act and the robustness of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) media, which tends to increase the speed of the processes. In conclusion, today we bring the debate an initiative which we consider to be of the most fundamental justice to people who have a sense of belonging to our country and who have been denied something basic over all these years: to return their nationality to them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u114	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through organic laws 2 / 2006 and 2 / 2018, the Assembly of the Republic approved amendments to the Nationality Act, with the approval of the PCP, which had a very positive impact by allowing the acquisition of Portuguese nationality to many citizens born and to reside in Portugal and which could not access Portuguese citizenship due to the restrictions imposed on knowledge of land law for the acquisition of original nationality. On the other hand, it was largely eliminated discretion in the allocation of nationality by naturalization, with the reversal of the burden of proof of effective connection to the national community. Thus, from the law passed in 2006, an evolution that brought a greater balance to the Portuguese Nationality Law that based mainly on jus sanguinis for the sake of jus soli, creating unnecessary obstacles to the integration of many citizens who should and should be legally recognized as Portuguese. The Portuguese law, historically, settled in jus sanguinas, which was explained by the fact that Portugal has been a country of emigration for centuries, but in recent decades Portugal has also become, as we all know, in a country of immigration, fully justified the positive evolution that the Portuguese Nationality Law has had, with steps that have taken mainly since 2006 and which we rightly welcomed. However, as the CFP at the time pointed out, the amendments could and should have gone further in consecrating jus soli and would not depend on the recognition of Portuguese nationality to citizens born here of the time of residence of their parents in national territory. The CFP voted in favour of these laws because of their progress, but it considered that it would indeed have been possible to go further in consecrating jus soli. Since the parents — or at least one of them — lived in Portugal, the children who were born here should be able to be Portuguese, without abdicating the requirement of any connection to the national community, which, in fact, would be natural in these situations. It makes every sense, from our point of view, to consider Portuguese of origin all individuals children of national citizens born in Portugal, provided that this birth was not merely occasional, on a passage through Portugal of people who do not reside here or want to reside here or who have come here with the sole purpose of obtaining Portuguese nationality for mere convenience, not having or intending to have any other relationship with the national community. These are not the situations we want to protect. Of course, it is also important to safeguard the situation of foreign citizens who do not want their children, even born in Portugal, to have Portuguese nationality. This option must of course be respected. In conclusion, the CFP Parliamentary Group proposes that all citizens born in Portugal may be Portuguese citizens, provided that one of their parents, being a foreigner, is resident in our country, and that, in the acquisition of nationality by naturalization, citizens born in Portugal can acquire it without that depending on the length of residence in Portugal of their parents. These are the proposals of the CFP. I want to say that we are in favour of this debate, we are ready to vote favourably on all the initiatives under discussion here, in the hope that in the debate of the specialty there will be a just and appropriate solution in favour of integration into the national community, through the link of nationality, to all those born in Portugal, who are born in Portugal and who are effectively part of the national community. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u116	Also to present your legislative initiative, Mrs Joacine Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nationality legislation is an instrument of social justice and it is also a necessity for the extension of citizenship to thousands of individuals who are currently on national territory. How does it prove—and this is the greatest anxiety during these years—an effective emotional or effective link to the national community? How can a child in one month or in one hour have the chance to prove his emotional relationship? There isn't! So, what this legislation usually does is analyze the situation of children based on the legal situation of their father or mother. This is obviously understandable, but legislation, however constitutionally it is, needs to be successively relativized and questioned when it questions the citizenship and the rights of individuals. There are — and that is what we are defending in our legislative initiative — Portuguese and Portuguese born in national territory and which have no nationality. These individuals do not fail to look at themselves as national, to be understood as national, regardless of the State refusing their nationality. So this must necessarily force us to reflect on the burden necessary for us to evaluate and legislate about nationality. I would also like to mention the following: the individuals born, let us say, between 1981 and 2006, are not exceptional, there is no need to give them any exceptionality. We mentioned these years precisely because it is a time when there was less protection of the state than those born in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u118	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u119	And there are still many individuals who were born at that time and who are still struggling for citizenship. There is no Community loyalty to the European Union which overrides the need of the national state to guarantee the rights of individuals in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u120	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u121	So we argue that individuals born in national territory are automatically national citizens and that we look more fairly at individuals born between 1981 and 2006.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u122	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, particularly in Europe, the debate about the migration phenomenon has been exacerbating the need to rethink and adjust the laws of nationality to a new reality which has long since ceased to be merely conjunctural. Indeed, in recent years, the reality of immigration has become an integral part of our daily life and to mark, politically relevant, our present and future reality. It is precisely in this context of migratory flows that the issue of the law of nationality is called to the political agenda. There is also an added responsibility for the need to create conditions to enable those who are here to find what for the Portuguese abroad we claim: a citizenship status. Increased responsibilities arising from the dual state of the country, at a time of migrants and migrants. It is in this framework that we understand this debate and the proposals that are under discussion today, that is to say, through amendments to the Nationality Law, we seek to create conditions that favour the full integration of foreign citizens, ending an unfair and unacceptable situation that creates marginalization, discrimination and social exclusion. They are proposals that are intended, above all, for many of those who are considered foreign, even though their eyes have never seen, in their lifetime, another country other than ours. They are proposals that seek to introduce current content to the existing legal framework and define a new criterion for the allocation of nationality capable of ensuring the exercise of fundamental rights, whether the right to nationality or the right to non-discrimination. We are talking about situations that the current Nationality Law does not guarantee, on the contrary, because, in fact, the current law has caused profound injustices, contributing to situations of inability to properly integrate immigrants into Portuguese society and consequently to situations of social exclusion. It is a law that has allowed many young people, children of immigrants in Portugal and already born and raised in our country, to be considered as foreigners, when they speak our language, to share our culture and they do not know another country other than ours. This is a legal absurdity, which in Portugal is particularly shocking, given our dual status as a country of migrants and, increasingly, as a country of immigrants. This is dramatically reflected in the daily lives of immigrants and, in particular, of people already born in Portugal, referred to the condition of almost stateless people, with all the human, social and cultural consequences arising there, whose gravity cannot continue to be underestimated. These are the reasons and reasons why, in our view, the need to amend the legal system for the allocation of nationality, as proposed by the initiatives under discussion and which the Greens, overall, accompany.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u124	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After a little more than a year, we are again discussing the Nationality Law, recently changed. The NAP initiative, of course, solves a historic problem and I think it must be considered. On the other hand, the initiatives of the Block of Left, Free and PCP aim at deeper changes, to, say these parties, give relevance to the right to soil. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to soil has been the prevailing criterion in the allocation of nationality in Portugal since 2006, a right strengthened since 2018 at the initiative of the Socialist Party. I recall: since 2006, the grandson of a foreign citizen born in Portugal is automatically Portuguese, but already the grandson of a Portuguese born abroad is only Portuguese if he proves that he has an effective connection to our community. The son of an immigrant born in Portugal is automatically Portuguese, since his father or mother lived here two years ago, but already the son of a Portuguese born abroad is not Portuguese automatically. It is therefore a fallacy to say that the right of Portuguese nationality does not enshrine the right of soil or does not give it relevance—yes, it gives it much greater relevance than the right of blood. And more: regardless of the situation of documentary regularity of the parents, all the children of immigrants who were born in Portugal have the subjective right to naturalization, if they were born here and if they remained here. The Left Block and the Free Block want anyone born in Portugal to be Portuguese. I accompany the Portuguese Communist Party when it says that it only makes sense to attribute Portuguese nationality when parents reside in Portugal, although we do not know very well how the PCP wants, safely, to define this criterion of residence. But the Free goes much further, because any descendant of a Portuguese, who has a distant ancestor, is automatically Portuguese because he has a drop of Portuguese blood. I do not think that the right has ever dared such a consecration of jus sanguinis. Finally, the Left Block, the PCP and the Free do not just want to regulate the issue of nationality attribution to children. They also want to change the naturalization regime of immigrants residing in Portugal, exempting them from all the requirements that this naturalization depends on today. That is, even if they do not respect our laws, even if they do not speak the Portuguese language, after all, that which is our homeland, they allow them to access Portuguese nationality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u126	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u127	If the problem is to overcome the difficulties in obtaining residence permits, then we will discuss these difficulties, but at home, which is through the law of immigration and not through the Law of Nationality. We cannot artificially manufacture Portuguese citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u128	Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira has now spoken on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to nationality is a right of greatest importance. Nationality is the legal-political link that expresses the link between a person and the Portuguese community.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u131	If there is legislation that should only be changed with good sense and weighting, that is it. Any change must presuppose a sense of State, any change must ensure a balance between the opening of the law and effective and responsible integration. The allocation of Portuguese nationality is clearly too important for it to go to the taste of winds or small electoral breezes. [[PSD applause.]] This Law had a huge change only one year ago and we now have one of the broadest laws in Europe in Portugal. However, saving the draft law of the NAP, which only corrects a situation that is not covered, we are debating three more bills presented by the left who want to further extend the Nationality Law. Now we have not yet had time to evaluate the effects of the 2018 enlargement and the left already intends to extend the allocation of nationality in an unrestricted manner in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u133	Good sense is needed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The allocation of Portuguese nationality cannot be a la carte if it is not possible to be an invitation to illegal immigration. Obviously, every human being must have a nationality. What is different is whether any human being, in an unrestricted manner, must automatically have Portuguese nationality only because it is born within our territorial boundaries—that is what the Left Block and the Free Block defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u134	It's the fairest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u135	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u136	Let's see: a couple of foreigners come to spend vacations in Portugal and, accidentally, their son is born in Portuguese territory. Should this son have Portuguese nationality? There may also be a couple of foreigners who come to Portugal to have a child only to have a European passport. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Do you want to transform Portugal into Europe's largest outlet of nationality? It is appropriate to say: O Elvas, O Elvas, Europe in sight! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u137	It's the lives of people at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u138	The reinforcement of jus soli has an inclusive aspect to which we agree. However, the effect of recognition of European citizenship cannot be ignored. There are obstacles and restrictions that must be removed, but with moderation. [[BE's protests.]] For example, the Free also has a proposal for a special scheme for children of foreigners born between 1981 and 2006. And who was born in 1980 or who was born in 2007? In addition to not agreeing with the creation of this special scheme, the principle of equality is quite clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u139	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u140	I conclude, Mr President, as I began: we must have good sense and a great deal of weight in relation to the amendments that we propose under such an important law as the Law of Nationality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u141	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by stressing that all projects, including that of the NAP, begin by saying that nationality is one of the main traces of identity of all human beings. But then, each of these projects presented says precisely the opposite. This is a kind of Portuguese nationality in balances, for those who want to buy it, and for those who wish to pursue this out of Europe. [[BE's protests.]] Can I finish it or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u143	Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u144	Mr. President, thank you very much. It is a nationality in balances that the left wants to sell to make us a poor relative of Europe. Besides selling many other things, he wants to start selling nationality now. We have reached this point, Mr President: in two of the projects presented, it is said that a certificate from the parish board is sufficient to those who live in a de facto union to give access to nationality. More ridiculous than this we cannot have: a certificate from a parish board to give direct access to Portuguese nationality. I don't know, Mrs. Member, whether to be Portuguese is a luxury asset or not. I have a great pride in being Portuguese and I have a great pride in belonging to this heritage. What I can tell you is this: it may not be a luxury asset, but it is a good that the Portuguese, that the History of Portugal and that Portuguese civilization must preserve, under the penalty of transforming what happened in 2018, in which the number of illegal immigrants in Portugal increased by 100 % in the new normal Portuguese. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u145	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u146	It will never allow Portuguese nationality to be vandalized!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u147	They are people who pay taxes and contribute to the country's wealth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u148	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Someone wishing to have Portuguese nationality is of the greatest praise that can be made to Portugal. It means that someone has chosen to be part of this community of people, language, history and values. The Liberal Initiative therefore considers that the general rule should be that all those who are born here and all those who wish to do so have the right to be Portuguese. It is also an exercise of freedom of choice. But belonging to a community is also responsible for taking care of it. This implies not using the freedom to be abused in Portuguese and implies maintaining effective links to Portugal. Thus, the right to be Portuguese must depend on the effective connection of the individual, or his parents, in the case of naturalization, Portugal, which is presumed to be the case if he is resident in Portugal — or by marriage — for at least two years, regardless of the title of that residence, and if there is sufficient knowledge of the Portuguese language, or interest in acquiring it. Finally, we must also consider the right to freedom of choice of nationality, on the one hand, with the safety of the rest of the community, on the other. We therefore consider it appropriate to maintain the provisions of the current law with regard to non-involvement in activities related to the practice of terrorism by those applying for Portuguese nationality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u150	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. As none of the proposed bills reflect our liberal and responsible view of nationality and do not caution, in any way or other, what we consider to be the essential, we assume that we will vote contrary to them all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u152	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP for an intervention Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject under discussion is once again one of the most important things Parliament can discuss. That is, who is and who can be Portuguese—there is no more important issue. Our law, in fact, as has been said here, has a tradition of jus sanguinas, but it has evolved into jus soli, which has been progressively extended. The last change we made, extending the sun juice, is one year old. One year! A year later, we are here again, with the left wanting to extend more and more, with meaning, without sense or even unconstitutional, because it divides and separates dates, as can be seen in the Free Initiative. It doesn't make any sense! For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nationality is linked to the nation and the nation is, first and foremost, a community of belonging, but also a community of destination; a community of those who accept, on behalf of citizenship, a set of common rules and values, i.e. citizenship values. What these proposals do, in general, is to devalue this value, to make it irrelevant, to say that anyone, in any circumstances, can be Portuguese, no matter what happens. In other words, it is not necessary to be a son of Portuguese, it is not necessary for the parents to have been Portuguese, it is not necessary for the parents, being foreigners, to have legal residence in Portugal. They will remove, one after another, all these requirements. It is not even necessary to have entered Portugal legally. Whoever illegally enters here has a son, that son is automatically Portuguese. There is no need for any knowledge of Portuguese language and culture. There is no need for any link to our culture and our territory. Look, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not even necessary — not in all the projects, but in some — not to have committed serious crimes, with serious penalties, in order to be able to access Portuguese nationality. Clearly, this is an absolute irresponsibility. It is from those who devalue nationality and the Portuguese nation, which, in some cases, such as the Free, does not even surprise us, because we have seen well the manifestations they have made and the way they treat our national symbols. No surprise at all! [[BE's protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the consequence is of course the appeal, as has been said, to illegal immigration, rather than to promote legal immigration. It is to disregard European commitments. It is to ignore reciprocity and equal treatment, as has been said here, and well, between Portuguese citizens born in Portugal or abroad. The Portuguese, to be nationals of other countries, must be punished; here, anyone can be Portuguese automatically. It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u154	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u155	I will finish, Mr. President. We are in favour of humanism and integration. However, when you make these irresponsible proposals, what you are doing is giving arguments to populism, because these proposals are an attack and a crime of litre-nationality. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u156	The floor is now for a second intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to make it clear that what the draft law of the NAP proposes is a historical correction. The same applies to people who have been left out by successive legislative amendments, particularly to people born in the former colonies and in Portuguese territory, which seems to us to be the most basic justice. It does not open the door to the one who is a debate that in fact lacks a greater depth and has to do with the remaining proposals. That is not what it is intended to do, that is, not to resume the question of the debate around jus soli or jussanguinis, but to make a correction which, in some way, was already prevailing in our country a few years ago. What are we going to say to undocumented people, if we continue to deny them what is a more inclusive life, the right to their documentation and the right to be recognized by them what is an affectionate link to our country? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u158	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u159	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u160	Mr President, may I use the floor to exercise the right of honour?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u161	This is a regiment figure, which can naturally invoke, so there is no restriction. You can certainly do it. You have the floor, then, to exercise the right to defend honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u162	Mr President, I would like to inform you that it is unacceptable for me to be listening here by some of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to demonstrations to attack any national symbolism. This is absolutely unacceptable! At no time, I realized this. At no time did I object to national symbolism. This is an absolute lie! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u163	Mr Telmo Correia, as far as I can tell, was your intervention which prompted this request to defend honour. I ask you whether you want to explain it or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u164	I can explain, Mr President. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u165	Of course! You have the right to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u166	Please, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u167	Mr. President, if you are Mr. Members of the Socialist Party understand that I must not explain or speak or not like to hear me, I will not speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u168	Mr. Deputies, please explain or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u169	I will give explanations, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u171	Moreover, as Mr President knows better than anyone normally knows, the defence of honour, which obviously the honourable Member has the right to invoke, is invokeable only in relation to another Member's intervention, and gives the same statutory right, if there are doubts about it, to explain the invocation which has been made. That is what I am going to do with the greatest serenity or tranquility, because, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, allow me to tell you, with all sympathy, that I did not say what the honourable Member invokes with regard to your personal honor. I did not say that the honourable Member had offended national symbols. That is not what I have said, and therefore the honourable Member has to be strict when she makes that reference here. Moreover, I will not even invoke any separation between V.E.A. and the Free, which will not be necessary in the present context, seems quite unnecessary to me. [[PS and BE protests.]] [[Fascism!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u172	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u173	I didn't talk about the Left Block, but, if you want, I can also say a few things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u174	Mr President, please refer to the explanations. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u175	Mr. President, these Mrs. Members of the Left Block have to get used to one thing: it is that, when there is a Member who asks to exercise the right to defend honour and I have the right to give explanations, they have to listen. Until the conversation isn't with you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u176	They've adopted it! You've adopted it, haven't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u177	Mrs. Member, what I said, and I repeat, is that there was, here, at the door of Parliament, a demonstration of your party, in which there were people who offended national symbols,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u178	I don't admit it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u179	...saying that the national flag was colonialist, which is obviously unacceptable in this country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u180	You have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by saying that I am very proud to be Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u183	It's a luxury asset!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u184	As they are also very proud to be Portuguese those who are foreigners in this country, all people who have been born in Portugal and who have no right to Portuguese nationality. These are very proud to be Portuguese as I am very proud to be Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Portuguese society is very different. The Portuguese don't have one color, not one origin. The Portuguese identity incorporates cultural brands brought by immigrants from the five continents. This diversity cannot continue to be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u185	It's not ignored!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u186	Attribution of nationality is a right, it is an essential dimension for the full inclusion of immigrant communities in Portugal, enhances the sense of belonging to the national social fabric and promotes citizenship rights, as well as political rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u187	And terrorism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u188	Where you and ladies see invasion, we see concrete people with dreams and ambitions. People who feed legitimate expectations to acquire Portuguese nationality, since here they are born, here they live and want to continue living, they are part of and contribute to the construction of national society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u189	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u190	...as opposed to the people who buy the visasgold that you defend. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] They feel Portuguese and Portuguese, with genuine social and emotional connection to this country. They do not want to be hostage to endless documentation or bureaucracy in order to regularize their situation in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u191	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u192	They are people who want to have the right to have rights, to overcome the obstacles placed, to transform their circumstances and to decide their fates. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u193	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 3 / XIV / 1. a, 117 / XIV / 1. a, 118 / XIV / 1. a and 126 / XIV / 1. the, we move on to the debate, together, in general, of the Bills Nos 37 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to promote durability and guarantee of equipment to combat programmed obsolescence, 116 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, 119 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the guarantee period for the sale of mobile consumer goods ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April and 120 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Increased durability and expansion of the guarantee for movable and immovable property ( amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April ). To present the initiative of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is proud to have placed on the agenda of the Assembly of the Republic the strategic issue of resource management in the face of the useful life of electronic equipment and appliances and to have been the first party to present in Portugal a bill with concrete proposals and solutions to respond to this problem. Today, large economic groups continue to introduce characteristics in products that deliberately cause shorter validity, either by incorporating parts preventing their replacement, or by using programming specifically designed to reduce the response capacity of appliances at the end of a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u196	It's the phone that gets strangely slower, it's the update that doesn't work, it's the printer that stops working as it should. They're not failures, they're changes that were planned from the first day! This is called planned obsolescence, and it is a key piece in the strategy of overproduction of economic groups and great powers. The environmental and economic costs of this situation are irreparable. According to recent studies, the adoption of rules extending longevity—only some of the devices—in five years, within the European Union, would represent a reduction of 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. This would be equivalent to removing nearly 15 million vehicles from the roads.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u197	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussions about the planet, the climate and the environment are taking place in an unprecedented operation of mystification. What is more there are talks and plans on circular economy that end up being oriented towards an even greater concentration of wealth, promoting circular lines only in segments that are subject to greater private ownership of profit. What is more, there are speeches that aim to reduce the fight against environmental degradation and climate change to carbon markets and new businesses. But what is required is an effort by each country, according to its responsibilities and development needs, a shared but differentiated responsibility among the peoples of the world, with de facto objectives of reducing pollution and emissions, and not just accounting, whether it is double or not. We know that this does not bring rapid profits and that is why few claim it. But that is not why the need for objective proposals is less real and less urgent. What we propose, with this draft PCP law, is: the extension to 10 years of the warranty period of these devices; the definition of technical standards which guarantee the possibility of replacement of components and prohibit the programming of appliances, limiting the time of life; the improvement of information to the consumer, with the creation of a label of longevity and the guarantee of access to Portuguese-language manuals; the promotion of local repairers networks, supporting micro and small businesses in the service to consumers, to whom the right to repair their appliances should be ensured and not to see them unused without need. They are concrete measures to defend people, defend the environment, defend the local economy. If what is being debated is even the defense of our collective future, the defense of the planet, of biodiversity, a better life in harmony with nature, then it is necessary to discuss, not products, but production modes, not individual guilt, but social transformations. That's why we say capitalism is not green. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u199	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when we are exploring more resources on the planet than the resources that the planet has the capacity to restore, it is essential to implement a circular economic model. According to the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), in 2017, about 158 000 tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment were placed on the Portuguese market. in this year, only about 63 000 tonnes of this specific waste flow were collected. Therefore, there are already warnings from environmental associations that, this year, Portugal will not meet the targets of recovery and referral to recycling of these wastes. In view of the fact that the target is about 104 000 tonnes to be recovered, corresponding to 65 % of the total electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market, and according to competitions launched by the managing entities, only 48 000 tonnes should be recovered, less than half the target. But if it is important to recycle and recirculate materials, it is even more important to promote the reduction of consumption and, consequently, to reduce the levels of exploitation of natural resources. Recently, the European Commission presented a measure entitled 'Regulation laying down ecodesign requirements' with the aim of reducing 46 million tonnes of CO2 and saving energy and water consumption. To this end, it proposes that companies have to offer replacement parts and the maintenance of products for between 7 and 10 years after purchase, thus rethinking the planned obsolescence policy. The NAP therefore proposes the creation of incentives at the level of ecological design for electrical and electronic equipment, either in the light of the raw materials used and in the light of their environmental impact on end-of-life products, or by increasing their life span. The European Commission's 2016 guidance on the directive on unfair commercial practices specifies that « planned obsolescence, or obsolescence embedded in industrial design, is a commercial policy that deliberately involves planning or design of a product with limited life, so that it becomes obsolete or inoperative after a certain period of time», thus requiring the purchase of new equipment and feeding on unbridled consumerism, more useful to corporate interests. To make everyone aware of the impact of these trade policies, about 50 million tonnes of electronic waste are discarded every year. This situation is absolutely unsustainable! The fight against climate change and the environmental crisis is not only about the decarbonisation of the economy, but also about the realization of the circular nature of the economy. Less consumption, and less production, thus less extraction, which means a decrease in the overuse of natural resources, which are finite and increasingly scarce. This, of course, within the limits of ensuring the well-being of people. No, we don't want to go back to cave time. Yes, we want to make sure that the next generations will still have a planet to live on. It is inter-generational justice that this NAP initiative deals with and this involves establishing criteria for buying and selling for certain goods and prioritising the rights of people and the environment. thus, the NAP intends to introduce the legal concept of «guarantee of durability », which corresponds to the capacity of the goods to maintain the expected functions and performance through normal use, creating contractual obligations — currently non-existent — during that period. More specifically, the NAP proposes the presentation of the product sustainability guarantee, which corresponds to the expected lifetime of the products, with the respective indication on the product label, and proposes the obligation that, after the end of the period of the commercial guarantee and until the end of the period indicated in the sustainability guarantee, the producers of electrical and electronic equipment ensure that they are repaired by making the necessary parts available. The adoption of these proposals represents a significant advance in the protection of consumer rights and also implements a step forward in more careful management of natural resources, in line with the principle of intergenerational solidarity. We have already said and said again that, if we maintain the current practices of fraud of natural resources for purely economic reasons, very soon nothing will be worth our money. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u201	You have the floor to present the initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings a very simple proposal, and essential for consumer and environmental rights, which is to extend the guarantee period, from two to five years, of equipment such as mobile phones, refrigerators, televisions and other products. This is also a problem which is already identified by the government. Two weeks ago, the Minister of the Environment said, and I quote: "Black Friday is the maximum and negative exponent of a capitalist society. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's a fact. A society that produces and reproduces ostensibly essential mineral resources on the planet—and which does so only for the existence of more disposable consumption—is a society that does not respect the planet, is a society that is completely unsustainable, is a society that puts the profits of companies ahead of the interests of people and the limits of the planet. That is also why, soon thereafter, the Minister said he believed in free choice and initiative. That is, Mr President, there is a problem, but at the same time he ensures that he has no answer because the markets are sovereign and there is nothing to do. Well, there's a lot to do and the Left Block brings here a little piece for the solution, because capitalism is no solution. That is why we are proposing to take responsibility for equipment-producing companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u204	But we ask ourselves: where do these two years of minimum warranty come from? Let us see the European directive and what it says is that the justification for this deadline is the need to shorten the time limit of the sellers' liability. It's extraordinary! We have consumer rights protection legislation that is made on the basis of the needs of producers. It's all turned out the opposite! That is why we have brought this very simple proposal. If we want to extract less resources, if we want to extract less lithium, if we want to reduce hazardous waste and toxic waste, if we want to fight programmed obsolescence and if, deliberately, the equipment lasts little, if we want a more respectful model of work, if we want technology to move forward so that the equipment lasts longer, if we want to fight the climate crisis and have less emissions, then we have to take responsibility for producers and society have to make clear rules for the economy. It is not the economy that commands people, it is the society that must send in the economy. This is the proposal that we bring: to hold producers accountable and to ensure that the minimum guarantee period is extended. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u205	You have the floor to present the legislative initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live in a competitive and irrational market where companies do not look at the means to obtain immediate and unbalanced profits, promoting easy and disposable consumerism. in this perspective, the products are often developed with poor quality materials, based on plastics and collages, with extremely customized components, reducing their durability and preventing their replacement or repair. On the other hand, it is also noted that more and more companies are practicing programmed obsolescence, which is intended to develop, manufacture and distribute a particular product so that it becomes obsolete or not functional in a short time, forcing consumers to acquire a new generation of that same product within a shorter period of time. It is the case of mobile phones or computers and other devices, which, after two years, become very slow and functional with the sole and clear purpose of forcing the consumer to buy others. Moreover, the seriousness of the problem is so acute that the planned obsolescence is prohibited in several countries, such as France and Italy, where high fines have been applied, especially multinational companies in the field of technology, by insisting on this true trick. We also know that in addition to economic costs, particularly for consumers, the discardability of products has a great impact on the pressure exerted on natural and mineral resources, such as lithium, greenhouse gas emissions and unsustainable waste production, such as plastics. The numbers are scary. We're talking about 47 million tons of electronic waste produced in 2017 worldwide—so only for a year! — which has clearly contributed to the emphasis on climate change, in addition to the resources that are consumed unnecessarily. But more: increasing the useful life of mobile phones and other electronic devices in just one year in the European Union would reduce carbon emissions in the equivalent of removing two million cars from the roads, while extending their useful life over another five years in terms of emissions, this would be equivalent to removing all cars from our country. In fact, something must be wrong when we realize that, in the case of mobile phones, 75 % of the associated greenhouse gases correspond to the entire process of transport and commercial distribution, i.e. before the user removes them from the packaging. That is also why the Greens argue that the fight against climate change and the destruction of natural and mineral resources such as lithium must undergo a change in this paradigm of 'use and lay out', acting from the outset in the amount of production and design of products. The Greens believe that a way of influencing the improvement of the quality of movable and immovable property, of safeguarding the rights of consumers and citizens, of increasing the repair of products and of reducing the impact on the environment, by reducing our ecological footprint, goes through an increase in the guarantee period of goods for a period longer than laid down in Decree-Law No 67/2003, by combating the practice of planned obsolescence and by measures to promote product longevity. These are measures that will lead companies to develop their products with manufacturing processes and materials that improve the quality of the goods, allowing not only their durability but also the possibility of repairing them, increasing their longevity, safeguarding consumers, the environment, natural resources and the planet itself. These are our proposals in this area to protect consumers, to prolong the useful life of goods, to contribute to reducing waste production and to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, to combat climate change and to save the natural resources of our planet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u207	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by welcoming the presentation of bills under discussion by the various parties, which can and should be analysed from the point of view of consumer rights, but also from the point of view of environmental sustainability. Today, we know that persisting in a linear economy, in which it is extracted, it turns, it sells and then it goes away, it is a mistake. The transition to a circular economy model is urgent, as it was, indeed, visible by the efforts of the Socialist Party Government in an intensive interministerial work that took place in the Circular Economic Action Plan (PAEC). It is urgent to take the transition to a production and consumption model with a higher level of product and service performance and more product sustainability-oriented. For the Socialist Party, the current digital transition we live has to be fair, socially balanced and with rights, and it is in this field of rights that consumer protection deserves special attention. Despite the progress made in this area in recent years by the Government of the Socialist Party, the PS recognises that, in an increasingly massive consumer society, the balance of consumers in relation to service providers and suppliers of goods continues to require special attention. It is essential that we continue to adopt instruments to enable the consumer to obtain information on the useful life of products, as well as instruments to promote their updating and repair. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is a fact that the various projects presented today seek to respond to several of these concerns, it is also a fact that they do so in different ways, with different weights and measures and even confusing concepts. The differences between the projects presented close the evidence that a much deeper reflection is needed on the subjects under discussion, from the definition of planned obsolescence. Should we involve the distributor in something that has not produced, as the ENP proposal does, applying this concept of obsolescence programmed to the distributor? Or should we refer this concept only to the moment of conception of the product? It's a question we left behind. I also recall that the elimination of this negative practice is a concern taken up by the current government and a priority of action in the Executive Programme, which we have been discussing in this House for a short time. In addition, Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 771 of the European Parliament and of the Council has recently been adopted, which provides a new legislative framework for consumer goods guarantees. The ENP, for example, brought us a text similar to what it had already presented in the past legislature, but meanwhile reality has changed and therefore it is also at the heart of transposition of this Directive that this discussion must take place. Finally, we consider it essential that important steps such as those we try to take must take place with more certainty, with more consensus and, above all, with the ears of all concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u209	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u210	I shall conclude by saying that the hearing must be carried out to all associations of the sector and to the National Consumption Council. I would like to conclude by saying that the Socialist Party is prepared to think more deeply about these issues that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u211	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD shares environmental concerns and consumer protection, the motivations of a circular economy, the improvement of rational management of natural resources and the reduction of the pollution burden, which requires a concentrated analysis in two main vectors — the fight against planned obsolescence and the guarantee of mobile goods. As for the first one, we cite the example of France, which in 2015 began to prohibit the practice of techniques used to deliberately reduce the useful life of a product and increase its rate of replacement by punishment for imprisonment up to two years and with a fine of 300 000 € who violate that standard. Solutions of this nature should be considered. The PSD will never accept that, under the flag of innovation and development, it is intentionally and deliberately adopted practices that harm consumers. We therefore consider it appropriate to implement in the Portuguese legal system the concept of planned obsolescence and its counter-ordering regime, but that will not be enough. As far as the proposed extension of the guarantee period of goods is concerned, our position is clearly different. In the guarantee of mobile goods, Portugal does not provide for a less favourable regime for the consumer than its European peers. However, we support the argument that, in many cases, there are extensions of the two-year guarantee through the hiring of insurance. However, if this extension has exactly the same scope as the initial guarantee, it seems to us that we can extend the cost-free period for the consumer. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] However, we believe that this should not be automatic for all products, preferring to reflect on a model that allows the definition of concrete and objective elements to make the guarantee more dilated. For this reflection is the fully available PSD, as it is available to follow a legal forecast based on a guarantee of durability, i.e. the guarantee that, within a given period of time, the equipment is repairable, thus being in full freedom of the consumer to opt for its repair or replacement. The PSD is fully available to discuss these matters in the field of expertise, until it is necessary to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 771 of 20 May. We believe that the protection of the environment and consumers is linked to the defence of innovation, research and the economy. This is the balance the PSD defends. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u213	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by asking Mr Bruno Dias, who said here that capitalism is not green, the following: are you not trying to convince me that communism is green, is it not, Mr? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u215	It's better to have grace than to be funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u216	We are all well reminded of environmental disasters and large-scale pollution in the Soviet Union. Therefore, communism is not only green, as it is quite black. As regards guarantees, there is indeed an asymmetry of information, an imbalance in power between those who sell and those who buy consumer goods, in particular, the current two-year legal guarantee rules for most of these goods seems to us to be appropriate. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The extension of these guarantees is a mere interference of the State with contractual freedom. If they want to protect consumers, they admit more competition in the markets and properly inform us so that contractual freedom can be exercised freely.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u217	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, continuing on the same path, it is curious to say that communism is green. It's something that impresses us and makes us all laugh. But, Mr President, these projects presented here have an advantage: they touch us at the fundamental point in relation to the new type of household appliances that we need — yes, legislatively — to build. Therefore, what we need is rules to make these appliances easier to repair, recycling and also with less energy consumption. We need, as the European Commission has said, more durable domestic appliances. That, yes, is the point. Now, what the Left Block and the Communist Party bring us here is an extension of the guarantee period for 10 years, when what we have in Europe is precisely the reverse trend: to reduce the guarantee period. In addition, in 2018, it was proposed that the guarantee period be reduced. We have a proposal from the European Commission to that end. It is no less curious that the Communist Party and the Left Block, which are so often justified by European legislation in certain matters, are able to come here to propose completely to the grip of European legislation. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] We need rules that protect consumers, no doubt, but we also need rules that protect the economy, that protect those who invest in innovation, distribution and business circles. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this type of proposal systematically makes this dichotomy: the capitalist and business monsters and the poor consumers, who are always harmed. Nothing benefits society, nothing benefits civil society and the social peace we need.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u219	You have the floor for a second speech, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Listening to the Socialist Party and PSD benches, we have to keep in mind that they will vote in favour of these projects... Are you saying no? Oh, my God! But the whole argument was that the problem exists, that has to be solved, that we need to hear more people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u221	That's the specialty process!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u222	That's the specialty process! It is strange that the Socialist Party will come here to say everything that is done in the specialty process and now say that it will not vote in favour. As far as the Members here have said that the market is responsible, that has been the problem. So if the market is in charge, why is it that all warranty deadlines are two years? Oh, my God! Why aren't there companies offering more? Oh, my God! Why is it always two years? Well, because it's the least. The guarantee period is a defense of the economy, it is a defense of the planet and it is a defense of consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u223	All right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u224	It is not subject to market laws, by the way, because companies always want the minimum. What we want to say is that we want the maximum for the planet and the maximum for the citizens. It's not the maximum for companies! [[CH's laughs.]] I also ask these Members whether they want to go back, for example, on their mobile phone chargers. They look at the great European oppression of large companies, forcing them to have equal cables for all mobile phones. Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u225	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u226	It was an essential measure to reduce waste. That is why rules are needed in the economy, because when there are no rules in the economy, what is in force is abuse and minimums, as in the case of guarantee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u227	For the conclusion of this item on our agenda, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After so many justifications and arguments to demonstrate that this discussion must be made in depth, continuing to reflect and promote the hearing of organisations, and that the model of extension of guarantee deadlines can be considered and discussed in more depth, all these annotations are useful and relevant. I just hope that they will not be'sorry of bad payers' to not vote in favour of the project, because this debate must indeed continue and even move forward towards the specialty. What we hope is that there will be consequences and that words can be passed on to acts, so that they are not just generic statements about the circular economy, as circular as the interventions some Members can make here. Finally, Mr President, I can only point out that it is very significant, and it is no wonder, that precisely the most reactionary forces present in this House are to make the declarations of love and the best vows to capitalism. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u229	We then move on to the fifth point of our agenda today, from which is the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to extend ADSE to all Portuguese, whether or not they have a working link to the State and 92 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the sustainability of ADSE. To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: ADSE is a health subsystem complementary to SNS (National Health Service ), of voluntary membership and with restricted access to public servants and their families. In 2014, it was no longer a benefit granted by the employer State to the Public Administration. Today, there is no funding from the State, and ADSE is paid through the discounts of the holders, 800 000 of a total of 1, 2 million beneficiaries. In addition to ADSE, public servants are free to acquire private insurance, and of course are entitled to SNS, like anyone else. On the other hand, a worker in the private or social sectors does not have the same set of options, the same freedom of choice. It has the right SNS and can buy private insurance, but it cannot access ADSE and the advantages it can offer you. Why? Oh, my God! Because ADSE is still a privilege for state workers and, indeed, is not for everyone, of course, for many public hospital workers, what some trade unions and representatives of beneficiaries want to maintain, invoking two arguments: the risk of the sustainability of ADSE itself and the alleged creation of a system for rich people who can pay and who will go to private, relegating the poor to the SNS. As for sustainability, there are several studies by the consultant Towers Watson for ADSE in 2015 from Deloitte to the Portuguese Private Hospitalization Association in 2018 of the General and Supervisory Council of ADSE in 2018, and reports by the Court of Auditors of 2015, 2016 and 2018, indicating that sustainability can only be guaranteed with the extension of ADSE, taking into account the conditions of age and maturity, I repeat, taking into account the conditions of age and maturity. These are the relevant variables and do not work for the State. The Court of Auditors is even quite incisive in saying that if new holders are not extended to them, sustainability will be at risk by 2026, until 46 % of the beneficiaries are now over 55 years old, and the budget surplus in 2014 fell to EUR 67 million in 2018. As for the other argument, that the enlargement of ADSE will allow the rich to feed the private, it is only ironic, because today, the only reason a public official chooses to pay the ADSE is precisely to choose to go to the private or social when it is best for him and, notes, paying €3, 99 per consultation, less than the 7€ of the moderate rate in the SNS. For the CDS, a system of access to health care in which only the Public Administration enters and which is forbidden to workers in the private and social sectors only because it is an unacceptable discrimination. We therefore advocate an extension of ADSE, preceded by a study of the profile and conditions of access for new entrants and the negotiation of the terms of this enlargement in the context of social consultation. Enlarge ADSE to others, without harming those who already have it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no greater solidarity between workers, between citizens, than this one. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u231	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very different from being in government or being a government. There are those who like to be in the government to increase their prestige, to improve their curriculum or to have new personal cards.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u233	That was in PSD time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u234	But being a government is very different. Being a government is to have the will and ability to serve people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u236	It is facing the problems of the community in a frontal manner and seeking solutions to these same problems. Unfortunately, the case of ADSE seems to show that those who ruled us over the past four years preferred to be in the government to be government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u237	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u238	Those who say so are not the opposition parties, it is the Court of Auditors itself, who claims to be still waiting four years ago for the government to do something with the recommendations it submitted to safeguard the sustainability of ADSE. What did the government do? Zero! What does the Court of Auditors say? It says ADSE will go into deficit in 2020 ; ADSE will go into bankruptcy in 2026 ; ADSE debts and payment deadlines have been worsening ; ADSE's unsustainableness will mainly harm users with lower incomes. More: the State does not pay ADSE and makes captive revenues, which are 100 % paid by the users of the system. [[PSD applause.]] In front of this disaster scenario,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u239	Disaster? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u240	...the government has done zero and does not seem to want to change its behavior. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Assembly of the Republic cannot remain indifferent to this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u241	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u242	We are therefore obliged to demand that the government be even a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u244	Therefore, the PSD has presented a legislative initiative that I sincerely doubt anyone in this House cannot subscribe. Firstly, we demand that the State pay it due to ADSE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u246	Who's against this? Oh, my God! Secondly, we demand that the Government, within 90 days, present to this House and to the Portuguese, an action plan that will safeguard the sustainability of ADSE. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u247	Who can oppose this? Oh, my God! Since the government does nothing, we, Parliament, have to demand that the government do something, that is government. What is at stake is a health issue for over a million Portuguese. In the face of this problem, you can't delay any more, you can't play with this situation. That would be unforgivable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u248	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Universal access to health care for Portuguese citizens is guaranteed by the National Health Service. This guarantee by the State affirms the equality of circumstances to Portuguese, public or private workers, unemployed or students, young or old. This is about ADSE dragging for a theory of discrimination promoted by the CDS. It is wrong for the CDS to cut the possibility of public administration officials having an organized subsystem, which does not provide health services but, rather, its funding, being that subsystem financed by discounts — and only — of its beneficiaries. There are no subterfuges or misconceptions! The draft resolution of the CDS has nothing to do with the possible proposed enlargement of the quotidized universe. The project results from an ideological position that reflects the lack of sympathy by the Public Administration and the will to minimize. The intention, in this case, was to dramatize, with an artificially constructed discrimination between the public and the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u251	Although this is not the concern of the CDS, I would like to mention, on the subject, that, when there is an increase in the net taxpayers of ADSE, there is also an increase in beneficiaries and therefore the extension of the base of these can only be done by safeguarding the diversification of risk and the introduction of greater sustainability in the health system. The position of the CDS is the opposite of that desired and necessary safeguard. On this greater reflection, it was important that the study on the enlargement of ADSE to new quotidized universes, presented by subsystem managers, was also on the table, which is the light-years of this CDS claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u252	Oh, I can't! The unions?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u253	On the other hand, the PSD draft resolution ends up addressing the issue of enlargement, because it does — see! — based on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Do so, however — what has been noted here again in the intervention — without showing what has been developed in recent years in the plan of rationalization of expenditure, which I believe I do not know, and the change in the legal nature of ADSE, which occurred in 2017. It is known, until hearings were held in the Assembly of the Republic with ADSE protagonists, at the beginning of this year, that in 2018 a set of measures to control expenditure with the agreed and free regimes was implemented. It is also known that a fraud control system is being implemented. With regard to the analysis of debts to ADSE, focused here and referred to by the Court of Auditors, the position of the ministries is already known...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u254	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u255	I shall conclude, Mr. President. As I said, the position of the guardianship ministries is already known and therefore a response with the debtors is being sought. We remember, of course, that the autonomous regions are also included.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u256	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u257	The new regulatory framework is attentive to the situation and will respond to it; and it is precisely because it will answer you that we do not follow impulses whose only objective is that of the media policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u258	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members would begin by saying that the NAP is concerned about recent indicators that question the sustainability of ADSE, which echo the audit of the Court of Auditors, according to which it will face its first deficit by 2020, with the surpluses accumulated until 2019 being exhausted by 2026. in the same way, we also express our concern here that we have not been implemented by the respective Ministries, Finance and Health, the recommendations that have been made to the Government. Apart from that, the NAP, because it looks for solutions that should guide us all, is available to bet on finding effective measures to ensure the viability of this subsystem, and these do not necessarily pass, in our view, by enlargement to the private ones, which only ultimately must be equalized. It is necessary to rethink the model, particularly on the issue of the attractiveness of the coverage plan, but also to encourage measures to rationalise expenditure, which, according to the audit, does not currently occur. That is not the spirit, however, that we find in the initiatives under discussion today, because what the PSD and the CDS want, even though under the cloak of sustainability, is no more than opening ADSE to private people. Moreover, the CDS initiative has the virtue, although not necessarily good, of being more transparent than that of the PSD in the ultimate purpose of privatization of ADSE,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u260	It doesn't make sense what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u261	... which reaches through an exhibition of purposefully based on unjustified fears of non-discrimination, in the already known register of turning citizens against others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u262	That's what you guys are doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u263	... without, however, stating that the weight of the discounts made by the workers of the public system is completely different from that of the discounts made by any private worker. As for this part, they don't say anything, they don't even say anything about it! They also do not say that they intend to end what they started in the time of the troika: on the one hand, to aggravate the contributions and, on the other, to extend this subsystem more and more. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what stands out is a clear contradiction to those who, expressing this concern about the sustainability of ADSE, have not done and continue to do not do enough to ensure a National Quality Health Service, which transmits confidence and security to users, rather than referrals to private people. [[Protests by Members of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa and Cecilia Meireles.]] The proposed enlargement, in our view, will have an effect contrary to that which is desired, that of sustainability, and, on the other hand, it also does not solve the problems of the National Health Service, quite the contrary. If the National Health Service is good, people will not feel the need to look for the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u264	So why did you opt for ADSE? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u265	We still remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the National Health Service is only 40 years old, so it does not take so long that many people in our country did not have access to the most basic health care. to the NAP, it seems that this proposal does not solve the problems of ADSE, much less the health problems in our country, so they are going next to a serious debate, which has to be done. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u266	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u267	Mr President, I thank you, with a special greeting. After they have changed the Health Bases Act in the previous legislature without truly reforming anything, here - once again, with health system proposals - in this case, ADSE. They are small steps and small wills that we do not oppose, but there is always the feeling that there is a missed opportunity. With a collapsed health system, no one wants to reform it. Either palliative measures or excessive medication are presented, but the SNS is not actually reformed. While some cling to the English example and others shake the American case, we in the Liberal Initiative look at other examples and their success. Let us look at examples where there is freedom of choice and universality in access. These are the foci of these systems. They are systems made to really think about the patients. We look at Holland, where primary care is the pillar, where everyone is covered by a family doctor, where there is freedom of choice in the health provider. in this legislature, we will debate a real reform that points to an effective, universal, innovative, competitive and citizen-focused system,... [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] ... a system that also gradually extends the access of all to palliative, continuous and mental health care. In the face of an implosion system, do you want to continue to amend or are we going to reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u268	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u269	What will be the version of the Program?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u270	Exactly! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a curious situation in ADSE. We have a failure to repay about 60 million, which alone should concern us all. But it is more concerned about the response the government has given. “ Don’t worry! The problem is that services are working at least." This is the problem of this country: to have to be reduced to minimum services, in justice, in ADSE, in health and in everything else. Today, the honourable Member has brought us a reassuring answer. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! She said: "The new regulatory framework is sensitive to the situation. » In fact, those at home are very calm, because the regulatory framework is attentive to the situation. It is not the Government or the PS Parliamentary Group or its allies, it is the regulatory framework! We've all been very well structured. In this case it will support the PSD's proposal for a debt regularisation plan because it is not really understood how the State can systematically require the payment of its debts to private individuals, with coercive charges, and does not do so in relation to payments due to ADSE. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that soon this House will discuss chemical castration and, let me tell you, the Socialist Party has done no more than castrate ADSE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u272	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing two initiatives today, the PSD and the CDS, about ADSE. They are two initiatives that aim solely to safeguard the interests of private groups in health, whose profits largely result from transfers via ADSE. In fact, if it were not ADSE, some of these private health groups would not even be profitable. Therefore, we totally reject what the PSD and CDS bring, by proposing that ADSE become a kind of private health insurance, leading to the destruction of the National Health Service. If your concern is effectively with the sustainability of ADSE, then let's ask some questions there. Why is ADSE not extended — and we believe that it should be extended — to public administration workers, including workers who have individual employment contracts?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u274	I talked about it! Didn't you hear? I talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u275	I say this for now on a matter of justice, but also because, indeed, these workers, having individual employment contracts, perform public functions. We can also ask: why does it not move forward with a new table of the conventional regime that sets maximum prices to pay to the providers? It makes no sense for providers — the large private groups — to continue to bill the prices they want at ADSE. There are several cases: for example, for the same prosthesis, one provider invoiced €19,345 and another, €31,141. Why? Don't you wonder? Is it not serious that there is no control and management to allow the same thing to be paid by the same value?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u276	Ask the Government of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u277	We can also give examples of drug prices, where suppliers charge one value and others charge 30 or 50 times more. Is this not something that questions sustainability? But as the interests of private groups are also called into question, we have not heard a word either by the PSD or by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u279	We can keep asking questions. For example, the debts of ADSE are mentioned. Why does the process of regularising payments to ADSE not also come about? It is that there have been payments that have been made improperly and it is expected that the regularizations will be made, but we have not heard any word from the PSD or CDS regarding this matter. In fact, these are important recipes for ADSE itself. That is why one asks: what is the concern of these initiatives? Is it actually to defend the beneficiaries and safeguard their rights or is it to safeguard the profits of the large economic groups that have benefited over these years with ADSE? Finally, he left one more question: why does it not extend and do not diversify the ADSE conventions, for example, to small providers?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u280	Oh, I think that's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u281	There has been a blocking of the new tables, with the maximum prices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u282	I talked about it! Mrs. Deputy didn't hear! She's so distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u283	... and there has been a blockade on this subject to small suppliers by the government but also by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u284	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u285	ADSE is a hostage of five large private groups in the field of health, and this is a matter that must, in fact, be placed on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u287	I will even finish, Mr President, by thanking you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u288	I ask you to finish quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u289	from here it is clear that it is not the rights of the beneficiaries that move these initiatives, the PSD and the CDS, but the maintenance of the interests of the large private health groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u290	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira of the Free has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wanted to make a single comment both on the initiative of the CDS and the initiative of the PSD: there is no greater health insurance than the investment in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u292	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u294	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: ADSE is a health subsystem of public officials that pre-existing to the National Health Service ( SNS ), in fact, pre-existing to democracy. It is today paid solely by the contribution of its beneficiaries, in which those who have less pay, who have more pay and is therefore a solidarity system, which has also included, for a long time, exempt beneficiaries. The PSD and CDS bring here projects that are different but that have in common are not absolutely clear about their objectives. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP.]] The PSD claims sustainability problems, but it did not speak here today about something that Dr. Rui Rio has already said: there is abuse by the private on ADSE and this abuse undermines the sustainability of ADSE. This was not said here today, nor was it said about the debt the privates have to ADSE. One way to solve this sustainability problem would be to extend to the CIT(workers with individual employment contracts), which by law should be treated as public servants, but that is not the goal either. When it comes to fulfilling the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, an idea is masked here that in the sustainability of ADSE and to ensure this sustainability should be introduced the private logic that all health insurance has, forbids or expels those who have less conditions to contribute from ADSE. One of these recommendations, for example, is that poor pensioners, exempt pensioners, should be suspended from financing their treatments. It is one of the ways to ensure the sustainability of ADSE in the private logic that the PSD follows. This is not our way of ensuring the sustainability of ADSE. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u296	The CDS presents us with a typical fox project in the henhouse, which is what the CDS habitualizes us when it comes to the relationship between ADSE and the National Health Service. And once again resorting to the problem of sustainability, try to throw sand into the eyes of people, hiding them that any system of enlargement to the private of ADSE would lead, as the President of the General Council said, to a chronic unsustainability of ADSE, which would result in one of two things: a private health insurance or an increase in contributions. In short, what would happen was ADSE no longer being a solidarity system, it would eventually expel those who contribute less and stay with those who contribute more, extending the entry to others who have the possibility to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u297	That's in your head!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u298	The result of this is that the private sector would have an appetite package of taxpayers with the possibility of paying a private health service. Therefore, the CDS is unclear when it says that it wants to protect the SNS or that it wants to create a solidarity health system for Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u299	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u300	... because those who live here already have a system of solidarity of health, which is called National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u301	So what's ADSE for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u302	And that's where we need to invest, I repeat, that's where we need to invest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u303	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u304	What the CDS proposes is not the extension of a solidarity health system, because it already exists and the CDS has always been against it. What the CDS proposes, through public sponsorship and social consultation, is that a competitive system is created at the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u305	What public sponsorship? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u306	...for those who gain better,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u307	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u308	I will finish, Mr. President. ... leaving the SNS to the poor who are unable to pay large contributions. Now, the time of basic health laws that promoted competitive systems to SNS is over. What we want is a basic law and an SNS that has enough investment to be, yes, the universal and solidarity system. [[Applause from BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u309	Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we finish this debate, I will have to be honest and say that it is regrettable — regrettably! — that what results from your discussions is simply the following: we must not do anything, we must leave things as they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u311	Exactly! Look at your government for five years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u312	And when this opens up bankruptcy and there's unsustainability, whoever's here closes the door! They forget that we are talking about Portuguese meat and bone, repeat, flesh and bone,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... of disabled and sick people who need the sustainability of this service. If you say that the Court of Auditors has media impulses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u313	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u314	...so, everything that opposes you has media impulses. And let those gentlemen refuse that the government governs and presents solutions simply means that they speak, speak, speak...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u315	And what does the Court of Auditors say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u316	...to keep everything in the same and whoever comes at the end that closes the door. The Portuguese will pay that bill later, but we will never give up fighting so that this does not happen. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u317	To close the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I like the expression « throwing sand for the eyes» because it is something that the Block, the PCP and the PAN have done with fullness in this debate. Mrs. Members — Ladies and gentlemen, in this case — I am not at any cost: if they do not want competitive regimes, they will end up with ADSE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u319	Complement!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u320	So, you didn't just say ADSE is turning public SNS employees into private? Oh, my God! Finish with ADSE once and for all, that's what makes competition with SNS! But for that, they have no courage. You know why? Because it touches public officials and there you don't want to move. Mrs Eurídice, I have to tell you that the only ideological prejudice the CDS has is that, for us, there are no first Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u321	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u322	... that are the public officials who have access to ADSE, and second Portuguese, who are the workers of the private and the social, who do not have access to this system just because they do and because you don't want to! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u323	She's an aceremous advocate of the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u324	They can continue to fight at will! Breaking up with the private is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u325	We will enter the last point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Lein. 52 / XIV / 1 Projects. a (NAP) — Privilege the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, except the decree of this regime to cases of child abuse, neglect and domestic violence, 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Alter the Civil Code, establishing the principle of alternate residence of the child in the event of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of the marriage of the parents, 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The seventh amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, in order to clarify that the court may determine the alternate residence of the child with each of the parents whenever such corresponds to the best interests of the minor, 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of alternative residence for minors in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage and 114 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Civil Code, providing for the alternative residence regime of the child in regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP has addressed this discussion because the current legal framework demonstrates a notorious inequality and even prejudice in the exercise of parental responsibilities, so it is important not only to reflect but to move on to action, i.e. to update the legal framework in the sense of greater and better sharing of parental responsibilities. In 2018 59 % of divorces were registered in Portugal, this is a theme that affects numerous families. We believe that the alternative residence model should be preferred whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, and as such it should be duly safeguarded that it cannot be applied to cases where child abuse, neglect or domestic violence are recorded. We admit to safeguarding that the judge is supported by multidisciplinary technical teams. The most current case-law has suggested that alternative residence should be the first option, not as a mandatory form, but as a requirement for parents to participate in the life of children in equal circumstances. It must therefore be included in the parental responsibilities of separate or divorced couples to alternate residences, which should from time to time be placed as a preferential possibility, with the need to assess cases on a case-by-case basis, listening to parents, mothers and not forgetting to listen to children or young people, except when circumstances do not recommend them to be beneficial to them. By 2015, the Council of Europe urged Member States to take alternative residence in their legal system and several countries such as Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Sweden have already legislated in this regard. In the countries that have done so, there seems to be a clear exponential decrease in family conflicts, because this model promotes increased cooperation among parents. There are already several scientific studies that demonstrate that this model responds to the physical, psychological, emotional, social and material needs of children, ensuring greater parental involvement and promoting a better articulation between work and the family, which will be decisive in increasing well-being and will promote the deconstruction of prejudices and gender stereotypes. The Attorney-General of the Republic, in an opinion on this matter, argues that a legislative amendment to promote alternative residence as a 'preferential regime' should not be regarded as an exceptional regime but as something normal and even desirable. Recognizing as legitimate the concern that the alternative residence model may bring risk to the child who divides his or her time with both parents, it is observed, in the specific case of our country, that, according to the annual reports of evaluation of the activity of the Child and Youth Protection Committees (CPCJ) and the Annual Internal Security Report, there was no evidence of any positive correlation with situations of domestic violence or child abuse in the case of the alternative residence model already applied. Portuguese families and gender roles have become and there is clearly a way in this matter that must continue to be done: parents or mothers reconcile their occupations with their parental responsibilities. in this particular area, the legislative framework should be amended in order to monitor the dynamic evolution of Portuguese society in this area, to follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe and to find solutions for the different families that suffer daily with the legal regulations that still prevail in this area. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u327	To intervene and present Bill No. 87 / XIV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor to Mrs Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative which the Socialist Party brings here today is based on a premise which we find fundamental that, in general situations, it is in the interests of children and a right of them to live with both parents throughout their development. We therefore propose that alternative residence be expressly consecrated in the law and that its importance be emphasized, establishing its preferential application as a form of exercise of parental responsibilities, taking into account, of course, the circumstances of the specific case and in obedience, always, to the interests of the child. The benefits that alternative residence entails for the child's growth and development process and for its well-being are unquestionable. It is widely recognized by experts that the possibility of children living with both parents alternately contributes to reducing their level of stress and distress, resulting from a process of separation from their family, and also creates conditions for better psychological and emotional adaptation to the new family context. But if this regime brings advantages to children, it certainly also brings benefits to parents, who, as a result, can participate equally and permanently in the education and life of their children. Of course, there is a multiplicity of circumstances in life that can make it uncomfortable to adopt, in particular, an alternative residence regime. These circumstances can only be assessed by those who have them before you, and that person is the judge, not the legislator.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u329	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u330	Therefore, in the proposed regime, the judge maintains all the freedom that the law currently gives him to decree any other regime that is more appropriate to the specific circumstances, as well as to determine the concrete terms in which, in practice, that same alternance is carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u332	We do not ignore, Mr President, the sensitivity that the courts have to have in contexts of domestic violence and other forms of family violence, which is reflected in the express safeguard, which already exists in the Civil Code, for the regulation of parental responsibilities in violent contexts, and in the recent bill of law, submitted by the Government, which guarantees urgent and additional protection for children who are victims of these contexts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiative we are presenting is aimed at the opinions of experts and the Council of Europe, the evolution of jurisprudence and the opinions of the Supreme Council of Justice and the Attorney-General of the Republic and the appeals of parents and children. We can't go back to this call. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u333	To present the PSD bill and to intervene in the debate, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group submitted Bill No 107 / XIV / 1. precisely on this issue which is of higher importance. We are very attentive to all the changes that the social fabric has suffered, particularly in terms of the structure and composition of the new forms of family aggregates. But let's talk, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how legislation is applied in family and minor courts. Let's talk about life in concrete, with all the complexity and out of the generality and abstraction of the law. Let us briefly summarize the handling of a normal trial in a family court and minor to regulate parental responsibilities. When one parent disagrees with the family court. A parent conference is marked. at this conference of parents, the other parent is only quoted and only has to attend without even having to say what their motivations are. If there is agreement, well, there is no problem; if there is no agreement at the parent conference, the parties are notified to go to specialized technical hearing or mediation, if they agree. The deadlines for the ATE — specialized technical hearing, or mediation — are between two and three months, always due to delays in social security and the procedural processing of a court. Then, if they do not agree on these forms of mediation of conflicts, they return to the continuation of the parental conference in the courts, but without before, at the first conference where they did not reach agreement, — and that is why the PSD Parliamentary Group wishes to draw attention — a provisional regime has been set up for the care and establishment of parental responsibilities. at this stage in which the court provisionally establishes the parental liability regime has no element that allows it to do so with the safety and rigour that the life of a child needs in relation to the regime that will be in force. We don't know if there are aggressions, we don't know if there's domestic violence, we don't know if there's alcoholism, we don't know what kind of family it is, unless the child is previously signaled by a promotion and protection process. We don't know during all the processing in which a process is going. If no agreement is reached, the parties shall be notified with 15 days to claim, returning to the courts for the trial, to make the extension of the sentence, as long as it takes. The sentence is liable to appeal to a higher court, and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisional arrangements set out above are in force in respect of parental responsibilities. And if this regime is enshrined in the law any supremacy, any principle, any privilege of an alternate residence, this can be absolutely harmful to the lives of these children. I think it is up to us, the Assembly of the Republic, to the legislator, in this absolutely sensitive situation, to be with all the cautions, and all the cautions are few because it is the life of the children we are talking about. That is why, given the new forms of life, the new forms of family, all of this, we must also safeguard the lives of these children, because it is the life of these children, it is the life of the citizens we are talking about here. We're not just talking about generalities and abstractions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u335	To present the CDS-PP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP presents this project, which has already been widely reflected in the previous legislature. I would like to begin by saying that it was Law No. 6/2008 that established the rule of joint exercise of parental responsibilities for issues of particular importance to the life of the child and it was from there that we began to speak in shared custody and in alternate residence. This project considers, yes, that it is important that the law expressly accords the possibility of determining the alternative residence regime, but we also do not ignore that the possibility of determining this regime is already widely recognized by Portuguese jurisprudence. And, moreover, it does not seem to us that it makes sense to establish some supremacy from one regime to another, which, in fact, does not exist, contrary to what seems to be the assumption in many cases and in many of the reports we have heard around this subject. At present, there is no supremacy of any custody regime vis-à-vis another. We draw attention to the fact that establishing it would entail, then, establishing a number of procedural changes which would mean several difficulties in removing such a system of presumption or presence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the relationship between parents and children and the right of children to have a happy, complete, balanced relationship, over time with their father and mother, more than a right of parents, is, above all, a right of children. We must safeguard this right, it is up to the legislator to recognize it and it is up to the judge to decide, in each specific case, what is the most appropriate specific way to do so. What the CDS proposes, and we are open to discussing this matter, because I think it was desirable for us to reach a consensus, since we all want the same, is that we realize that, yes, the legislation should not be repressing the possibility of shared custody — that is not how the legislation should be interpreted. On the other hand, we are sure that no one in this House, either because of a legislative amendment or because of the mere delay in the decision of the courts—and we must realize that, in these cases, the delay in decision of the court is a serious problem—that problem is solved by laws establishing presumptions that, in the particular case, can lead to even more complicated results, precisely those that we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u338	Therefore, I hope that we can reach a consensus on this matter, but this consensus must always start from the common sense, from the best interests of the child in each concrete case and from the recognition that the establishment of this relationship with both parents is a right of parents and children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u339	To present the draft law of BE, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The debate we are having today is of vital importance, because we are indeed making decisions that affect children's lives in a very particular and very direct way. That is why it is a debate that is responsible for us and that must call upon all seriousness and prudence. For this to be a serious debate, it is important that we set out some assumptions that should guide this reflection and any decision-making. One of them is undoubtedly the importance of promoting equal sharing of responsibilities and duties with children to meet the objective of having a more equal society in terms of gender. Clarifying in the law the possibility of alternate residence allows to walk towards the fulfilment of this objective. But this premise cannot be overshadowed by the recognition that, in situations of regulation of parental responsibilities and the child's model of residence, the focus must be, first and foremost, on the child and his supreme interest. It is therefore essential that any decision-making enables the judge to collect all necessary and relevant information to assess that concrete situation and decide on the most appropriate solution to the specific case, depending on the interests and needs of that particular child.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u342	The third premise is that we cannot also ignore, and it has already been said today, the reality in which we live. We cannot ignore the domestic violence rates of the country, nor can we ignore that the crime of domestic violence is the most killing in Portugal. We cannot ignore that, in general situations of regulating the parental responsibilities decided in court, there is some degree of conflict between the parents and we know that this conflict, not necessarily so, can hide situations of domestic violence or, on the other hand, potentiate them. Therefore, the Left Block considers that it cannot be legislated in this area without safeguarding these situations of domestic violence in a very clear manner and without considering that alternative residence, in these cases where domestic violence exists, is the worst of all regimes. As such, in order to protect the physical and psychic integrity of women and children, the bill of the Left Block excludes the possibility of the alternative residence regime being applied when faced with a situation of domestic violence and provides that the decisions of the court, with regard to the custody and residence of the child, depend on the receipt of judicial communication that no domestic violence proceedings proceed. On the other hand, it is also important to ensure the right of the child to be heard on all decisions which concern him, in fact, in the strictest compliance with what is stipulated in the General Rules of the Cable Protection Process and in the Convention on the Rights of Children. It is also important to ensure that the alternative residence model does not serve as an excuse to avoid—as is often the case in the real world—the duty to provide food imposed by law or by agreements previously established. This is the bill of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u343	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we will certainly all recognize the amendment to the Civil Code, in particular Article 1906. the, has been the subject of discussions among the Portuguese. It is necessary to establish the presumption of alternative residence for children whose parents and mothers are in the process of divorce, judicial separation or declaration of nullity of marriage. Now, what I think is really at stake in this discussion is whether it is intended that, in these situations, parental responsibility should have, or not, as a main focus and concern, the interests of children. If this is, as it is, the understanding of the Greens, then we will have to look for the formula that best responds to the need to place the interest of the child at the centre of parental responsibilities. In this regard, it would be appropriate to refer to the Council of Europe resolution which recommends the introduction, in legislation, of the principle of alternate residence after separation. Here, also in the previous Parliament, following, moreover, a petition addressed to this House, we became aware of the position of some entities, from then on of the Superior Council of Magistracy, but also of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, entities that referred to the opportunity to include the principle of alternative residence in our legal order. from the Greens Ecological Party, we recognize the advantages of this solution on all angles and points of view, both of the child and of the right of parents. Therefore, as long as there are no reasons that do not recommend a different solution, from then on, situations of domestic violence, The Greens consider that alternative residence promotes the desirable balance in time management and in living with both parents and that, at the same time, it is the solution that responds to the imperative to provide the child with the best conditions for healthier growth and more balanced integration. This means that the Greens follow the legislative initiatives under discussion. We are sure that there is every condition that, in all the proposals that we are now discussing, if we reach a consensus text that ensures the essential, that is the best interest of the child and that, in our view, we should predict the principle of alternative residence in our legal order, naturally safeguarding what is to be safeguarded, from the outset, when situations of domestic violence are present, and ensuring what is to be guaranteed, in particular the hearing of the child in all decisions that concern him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u345	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is obviously a situation that needs to be answered very strongly, but also with the certainty of the values and the side on which we are. One of the concerns that we have, for example, with regard to the bill of the Left Block, is that it makes it clear that domestic violence is only of men about women and that there is no other kind of domestic violence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u347	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u348	...when we know it's not like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u349	I didn't read the bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u350	It's true! He's here! Another concern that we have is that even projects such as the NAP, which seek to safeguard situations that avoid the application of presumption, are neither conclusive nor, in any way, exhaustive. I ask, for example, whether someone convicted of sexual abuse of minors may or may not be in this situation. How is anyone convicted of sexual abuse of minors being able to benefit from alternative residence? It is a basic rule that should not deserve much discussion; it would deserve only a little reflection. And we need to know very well which side we are on: whether it is on the side of the child's best interest or whether it is on the side of wanting to mediately resolve a situation that seriously affects Portuguese families. This example of sexual abuse of minors is an example of how we cannot, in this House, approve these initiatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u351	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u352	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this example of sexual abuse of minors is an example of how we cannot approve these initiatives in this House, because there is a lack of reflection and depth in the causes and situations in which we should exclude the application of the principle of alternative residence. It is a matter of protection for the children themselves that is at stake here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u353	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time that we are discussing this matter, we have already done so during the discussion of a petition, which has been presented here, calling for alternative residence as a preferential regime in the event of divorce or separation — in fact, these legislative initiatives, assumingly, come following this debate. It would be a matter of reference to the various legislative initiatives presented here, which there is something with which we will all agree, that there is a common denominator, and that is that nothing replaces a judicial decision taken in the specific case and considering all the circumstances of the specific case.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u355	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u356	Secondly, what should guide the judicial decision must be the best interest of the child, and at this point we all agree. This leads us to rule out what? It leads us to rule out that there is a presumption of alternative residence or that there is an imposition by the legislator on the judges, in the sense that it must be the alternative residence. This too, of course, is not even proposed by the petitioners and, although they pointed to presumption, that is not the meaning of legislative initiatives. Basically, what the legislative initiatives tell us is that, having no contraindication, in the specific case, to opt for alternate residence, judges can opt for alternate residence. All right, and we, of course, must not fail to agree, provided that this does not mean a link to the enforcer of the law, to the judge, provided there is no indication of the law that goes in the direction of forcing the judges to decide in a certain sense. But, I stress, that is not what you are here, although you can find a better formulation in the specialty, in order to say that there is no stigmatization of alternate residence, having, yes, the possibility, provided that this corresponds to the interests of children and taking into account the situations in particular, taking into account what this implies for your life, for your socialization, that you can opt for alternate residence without being forcing decisions. If the judges consider, in view of the specific circumstances, that they should not go there, of course, the Portuguese civil law should allow them to choose what they consider to be the best solution, within the concrete circumstances which only the judges are able to assess. Therefore, our position is to be available to discuss legislative initiatives in the field of expertise and, of course, to follow this process with all interest and commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u357	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to these numerous legislative initiatives, it is necessary to ask ourselves whether, indeed, there is a need for a change to the current legislation and whether this will necessarily reflect on the best interests of the child. Obviously we are going to discuss the initiatives, but it is essential that we listen to the Lawyer Order and also the Portuguese Association of Legal Women.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u359	To close the debate, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party naturally welcomes all parliamentary groups that have associated themselves with this issue and the consensus around it, I believe, of the need to provide for alternative residence as a form of exercise of parental responsibilities. Mrs Monica Quintela, Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr André Ventura, we do not intend to establish, never heard us say that, a presumption, nor any rule...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u361	That's what they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u362	No, we didn't! Furthermore, the PS bill does not provide for the following: «Alternative residence is assumed to be the best solution for the child ». The PS doesn't say that at any time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u363	Say, say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u364	Don't say no! What we want, yes, Mr. Members, it is that alternative residence should be privileged if it corresponds to the best interests of the child, as we have already said. However, strengthening that we are available to, as a specialist, find the possible consensus to protect and, above all, ensure the best interests of the child. To move forward they will always count on the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-11.u365	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. Tomorrow, we will have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. with a number of items on the agenda In point 1, there is the general discussion of Bill Nos 21 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Change Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February in part concerning the timing of the removal of asbestos in buildings, installations and public equipment, 108 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Updates asbestos listing in public buildings, facilities and equipment and makes public the respective monitoring and corrective actions timing plan( 1 ). the amendment to Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February ), 115 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the removal of products containing asbestos fibers still present in buildings, installations and equipment and 122 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment, together with Resolution Projects Nos 96 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent preparation of a plan for the withdrawal of all asbestos materials in public schools, 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government make public the list of buildings where public services are provided containing asbestos and the complete schedule for removal and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented to the European Union with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, the introduction of a line making asbestos removal operations eligible in public buildings. Point 2 shows the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government resolve persistent delays in the processing of pension pensions, 16 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt all the measures and procedures necessary to resolve the problem of delay in processing, award and payment of various social benefits, including old age and disability pensions, survival and other death benefits, 106 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to reduce the response period of the National Pension Centre and ensure timely access to old age, disability and survival pensions and 109 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to take measures to eliminate any remaining constraints in the processing of pensions. In point 3, the joint discussion of Law Projects Nos 1 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( BE) — Recognize children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence as victims of this crime( 6. the amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims and 47. the amendment to the Penal Code), 2 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — It makes it mandatory, in cases of domestic violence, to collect statements for future memory of victims( 6. the amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims), 92 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, 93 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Make it mandatory to make statements for future memory at the request of the victim or the Public Ministry and 123 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creation of allowance for victims of violence who are forced to leave their homes. In point 4, the joint discussion of Resolution Projects 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate recruitment of all educational action assistants and administrative assistants necessary for the regular operation of the Public School, 101 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of educational action assistants, 103 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the allocation ratio and the urgent recruitment of operational assistants and technical assistants necessary for the operation of ungrouped groups and schools, 111 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff. Point 5 shows the general discussion of Lein.o 27 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of the Ancient Combatants and proceeds to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November and to 1. the amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January, 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the Statute of the former Combatant and extends the rights of former combatants, former military and disabled members of the Armed Forces ( 7 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99, from 20 November to 1. the amendment to Law No 9 / 2002 from 11 February to 1. the amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January 2009 and 1. the amendment to Decree-Law No 76 / 2018 of 11 October) and 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant, together with Draft Resolution No 113 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the updated and cross-cutting survey of matters to be envisaged in the establishment of the Statute of the Former Fighters with a view to the development of a new own legal regime that meets its specificity and needs. In point 6, the discussion of the draft resolution No 84 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the right to the citizenship card for the homeless. In point 7, the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2020, without time allocated for discussion. In point 8, there are regiment votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our work today, wishing everyone a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 28 minutes.]]
