ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we move on to the Government's Question No 29 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) on the fight against climate change — the importance of the transport sector, I will give the floor to the Secretary to take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 203 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the land structure regime, which falls to 7. the Commission, with connection to 5. the Commission. The Drafts of Law Nos 1217 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Table. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, which goes down to 1. the Commission, and 1219 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August. Parliamentary Opinions No 143 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) and 145 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 72 / 2019 of 28 May, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of port-marital areas and urban areas of tourism and economic development not affected by port activity. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of Resolution Projects Nos 2178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, for the purpose of accounting for social security, equip each day of discharge in batch of local fishing vessels and coastal vessels with 3 working days, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2179 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government review the process of returning the retroactive pension taken by the masters/owners of the Association of Masters Owners of Craft Fisheries in the North Zone, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2180 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect the populations of seahorses and to constitute areas of protection of these species, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2181 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a home of elderly people in Sacavém, in the municipality of Loures, 2182 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with the legal procedures necessary for the implementation of the IC26, as seen in the National Road Plan and in accordance with the National Road Network Assessment Studies ( EARRN ), carried out in 2009, and 2183 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to respond to the environmental problem in Valongo, resulting from the existence of Retivalongo landing. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u3	We will initiate the Interpellation to Government No 29 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) on combating climate change — the importance of the transport sector. To open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u4	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Greens have chosen for this call to the Government the theme of combating climate change, with particular emphasis on the transport sector's response to contribute to mitigating and slowing climate change. For many years, the Greens have called for urgency and urgency in the adoption of mitigation and adaptation measures to climate change, both at world level and at national level. If that urgency had been taken seriously a few years ago, today we would be in a lower risk. But in the 1990s, for example, the Greens warned this Parliament about the problem of climate change, and it seemed to various parties, governments and social media bodies that we were talking about scientific fiction. Only when the problem really hits the door is that many begin to awaken to him and this contempt for the urgency of measures to take generated vulnerabilities and risks that could have been avoided or, at least, minimized. What the scientific community makes clear is that if the average temperature increase on the planet is above 2°C, in relation to the pre-industrial age, the consequences can be dramatic and catastrophic. We all bear in mind the devastation caused by the Idai cyclone in Mozambique, and one thing is certain: the climate extremes and the intensity of these phenomena tend to worsen around the world, causing high levels of destruction, loss of human lives and many climate refugees looking for survival. The more greenhouse gas emissions are released into the atmosphere, the more the phenomenon gets worse and, the more vulnerable the territory, the more drama is associated with these phenomena. It is in these circumstances that the Greens cannot but reiterate a word of repudiation for the attitude of the United States of America which, together with Donald Trump, have disengaged themselves from the Paris Agreement, as they had already done, in relation to the Kyoto Protocol, when they have enormous responsibility for global greenhouse gas emissions, thus declaring a true environmental war to the world. The truth is, climate change is there. In Portugal, we felt its effects well, and in 2017, for example, we suffered one of its devastating consequences, consequences aggravated by vulnerabilities built with erratic and wrong policies, which focused more on the immediate economic interests than on the security and sustainability of the territory. In fact, over the years the forest in Portugal was built in the light of the interests of the celluloses, expanding vast and extensive monocultures of eucalyptus, at the same time that, much because of the responsibility of policies of the European Union and of the Portuguese governments subservient to these policies, promoted the abandonment of the rural world, of the agricultural area and left the forest fit to burn fiercely in years of severe drought. Now here is a good example of what goes against, on the whole, a policy option to adapt the territory to climate change, which must identify, in order to reduce, vulnerability factors in the country with regard to the effects of climate change. That is precisely why the Greens, in this legislature, entered in the joint position they signed with the PS, and worked hard to change the law of trees and re-arborization, which became known as the « law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus », of the responsibility of Assumption Cristas and of the PSD / CDS government. To halt the continued growth of the uninterrupted monocultures of eucalyptus was a decision that wisdom urgently required. by the action of The Greens that decision was taken. That is also why the Greens oppose, since it was drawn up, the National Barrage Plan, which contains the intention of building dams that represent virtually zero for national electroproduction and which have a very serious effect on biodiversity loss and the fragility of the coast, contributing to its erosion, due to interference in the transport of sediments through our rivers. It did, therefore, well when the Government, also with great insistence from the Greens, decided not to build the Fridão dam — which would also have other concrete implications for the security of the territory — but it was wrong for the Government not to have stopped the construction of the albueiras of the Upper Thame as defined. in the context of climate change mitigation, it is necessary to be aware that the energy sector assumes a responsibility of about 70 % of greenhouse gas emissions in Portugal. Within this sector, the energy production and transformation sector represents around 25%, and therefore the necessary decarbonisation calls for effective measures such as the urgent closure of the Sines and Pego thermal power plants. The transport sector is another one which has a weight liability, also close to 25 % with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore requires a strategic and consequent intervention which results in a substantial decrease in these emissions. However, as it is evident that between 1990 and 2016 greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 63 %, the question is as follows : how is it possible that successive PSD, CDS and PS governments over the years have contributed to this reality, demonstrating effective irresponsibility? Rail transport is perhaps of those who can make a greater and more relevant contribution to the reduction of CO2 in the transport sector. However, the policy of successive governments has been, in only three decades, since the 1980s, to close about 1300 km of railway lines, leaving the interior abandoned as well. We will not forget that in the context of the troika with the support of PSD, CDS and PS, a proposal has been made for the closure of 800 km of railway lines in order to balance the deficit. Would the people be willing to exchange their rail transport for the obsession with the deficit? And further questions are: are the populations willing to change the postponement of the modernization of services and railway lines by the blindness of the deficit? Or do they consider, like us, that the balance of public accounts is not made by cutting investment in key sectors to respond to citizens, but rather by promoting sustainable productive activity, which generates wealth, jobs and, consequently and of course, more revenue for the State? With all honesty, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the PSD/CDS government abolished the daily passenger transport on the East Line, who got lost with it? The populations, obviously. When the Greens fought with the current government and finally achieved the replacement of daily passenger transport on the East Line, who got away with it? The populations, obviously, and more, the economic and social dynamics of the region. It was in that de-investment logic that no rolling material was acquired for the necessary renewal and that, at the same time, it was completely neglected in the maintenance of trains in circulation, increasingly aged and with more technical problems. The EMEF (S.A. Railway Equipment Maintenance Company) of the CP was disintegrated and no longer recruiting personnel to provide the necessary answers. So what could come out of here? Only problems, of course. The same with regard to river transport linking the peninsula from Setúbal to Lisbon. If for years the necessary vessels have not been acquired and those in circulation have been allowed to be degraded, if the necessary personnel have not been hired for the navigation of the ships, how can we expect acceptable results from that? This degradation of the public transport service was often envisaged on behalf of an intention of privatization, which, in particular, the former PSD/CDS Government wished to be careful and which already implemented for urban road transport and wanted to extend to the river and rail. And all this cut in investment was also made on behalf of a small deficit, so that Portugal has a good student prestige in Brussels. And here the Portuguese suffer the effects of these disinvestments, as it is very clear today and it is felt in the skin for so many people! Portugal urgently needs a transport policy that mobilizes citizens for the use of collective transport, particularly in their pendulum movements, so that they do not become mostly individual cars — that is how we generate more sustainable cities and localities, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and also ensure the right to mobility of citizens and the link between our territory. The Greens have contributed throughout this legislation to the reduction in the price of the social pass. An affordable and mobilising price is crucial for citizens to choose to use public transport on a daily basis. However, the question of the existence of transport, of schedules compatible with people's needs, the question of regularity and interconnection of transport, as well as the question of comfort and quality of the means of transport are also determining factors to have a good network that responds to this collective mobility. That is why, rather than apologizing for the answers that are not given to passengers, what matters even by the Government is to realize the investment needed to ensure that citizens have confidence in meeting times when using public transport. These answers necessarily involve the purchase of rolling stock, the guarantee of conditions for the maintenance of rolling stock, spare parts for repair and the hiring of necessary human resources, for transport to circulate and for such repair to be made as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the progressive transition of cars moved using fossil fuel for electric cars is a positive issue, the real key to transport to less saturated cities and to reducing CO2 is the bet on a good public transport network. Collective mobility, as well as active or soft mobility, are the great strategic bets...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u5	Madam Member, as has been agreed, the time spent in excess is discounted in the debate time itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u6	Thank you for your attention, Mr President. I said that collective mobility, as well as active or soft mobility, are the great strategic bets to be built in the present to ensure a future of sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude this speech by deeply regretting that the Minister for Infrastructure is not present at this plenary session. We would like to know the reason for this absence, because we believe that such presence would be essential. It is because the Minister came to the Assembly last week to apologize and it would be important for him to be here today, in addition to this request for an apology, to present concrete proposals and measures on matters which the Greens are going to put on today and which relate specifically to people's daily lives. In addition, it is important to say the following: while considering that climate change is only environmental protection, we are wrong. Combating and mitigating climate change is a cross-cutting issue that affects virtually all ministries and ministers according to their respective sector and their guardianship, and should therefore be clarified to the Assembly of the Republic, in particular to respond to requests for clarification from Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we take very seriously, here in the Assembly of the Republic, not only the issues of supervision to the government but also the issues of climate change, which requires urgent answers, as we have mentioned. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u7	Even during the opening period of the interpellation, the Government has the floor, through the Minister of the Environment and the Energy Transition, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given today the World Environment Day and the Government's next approval of the 2050 Carbon Neutrality Roadmap and the 2030 Climate Change Adaptation Plan, before this House my opening speech in this debate will necessarily be political but in the same way, absolutely strict in view of the ambition we have to have, of the justice in the transition we seek, of the certainties that we build and, I do not deny, of the doubts of the process that attack us. Democracy is not proclamation, but argumentation and I will try to explain our arguments for the construction of an economic and social model which is, at the same time, hypocarbonic and regenerative of resources. The climate is changing. in the Mediterranean basin, where Portugal is inserted, this is very evident, in particular with the reduction of precipitation. With pride, I repeat that we have been, two years ago, the first country in the world to affirm the commitment of carbon neutrality. But this would, after all, be a proclamation if we had not then drawn up a script confirming this design in the next three decades and, with more detail and sense of duty, prepared a National Energy and Climate Plan already for the next decade, aligned with this principle of neutrality. To be carbon neutral, we will have to explicitly reduce our emissions and we will have to increase our sewer capacity. The discussion of our dimension as a small country in the world of emissions is a sterile and meaningless discussion. The size doesn't count for anything when we all have to assume the responsibility that is asked of us. Portugal goes ahead, it is true, we are examples, it is true, but we do not find it in society or in the political world, at least at the level of speech, who asks us to support this ambition. On the contrary. Therefore, our duty is to continue to lead this transformation, ensuring that this leadership in combating climate change is a prestigious factor, but more than that, it is the reason to invest and create wealth in Portugal for this new economic model that we continue. Yes, ambition is great, but the model is realistic. By 2030, we will reduce our emissions by 50 %, which is higher than what the climate protesters initially demanded from us, and by 2050 by 85 %. In parallel, we will build a new rural landscape that allows a reduction of the burned area to half of the current average. Only in this way will the country have the capacity of sewer it needs. We are all summoned to this effort, even because, we have no doubt, technology helps, but it is not enough. Only there will we arrive with new organizational and business models and with a change of behaviour. And the ground seems fertile so that we can achieve it, even if we should not be enthusiastic about apparent consensus, because everyone — all — will have to contribute to this effort. The fight against climate change is made in two subsystems that complement each other, but which are objectively composed of various actions that should not be confused. I'm talking about adaptation and mitigation. The verb adapt is enshrined in the Paris Agreement and raised doubts to the Purists, as if it were a way of delaying the urgency of mitigation. I understand the theoretical argument, but I do not give reason to those who think so, until, to the limit, to think so is to think that the consequences of global warming are a problem of future generations. They're not, they're a problem today. That is why we need to adapt. on this subject I will speak in more detail in my closing speech. The other dimension is then that of mitigation, i.e. that of reducing the gases that cause global warming from the greenhouse effect. Five sectors involved. Two of them, waste and agriculture, I will not detail this speech. For reasons that, on the limit, until they can be said to be opposed, they are very conditioned by the rules of the European Union. The targets imposed on waste will force a huge effort, which I will call a warrant, good for our purposes, but without great margin, in the long term, for our own policies. as far as agriculture is concerned, we will always be conditioned as production support is concerned and they are not estimated until the horizon of 2050. We believe that if the European Union can jointly affirm the commitment of neutrality which Portugal has undertaken, and that at European level it has not yet happened, it will be consistent in its agricultural policies and will promote the decarbonisation of the sector. So we focus on energy and, within it, on the electro-producer sector and on mobility. We are committed to 80 % of electricity in 2030 as a renewable source and 100 % in 2050. in renewables, and because the water source will tend to lose precedence — there is no water for this and other uses will be affirmed as priority – are the solar and the wind the big bets, and also those with production costs lower than the market price and, as such, with greater gains for consumers, in a tendantly more electrified country. The Sines and Pego coal plants will be closed in less than 10 years and the Pego coal plants will be closed in about 3 years. I wonder how many other countries in Europe will do so so so quickly? I do not believe that there is any, and there is nuclear power, that Portugal has neither, nor will it. In 2030, the current 6 GW wind power will be 9 GW. The 1 GW solar will also switch to 9 GW. We have no way of agreeing with those who argue that all solar production should be out of focus. With the forecast of technological developments that we have, there will not only be security of supply for how, if we did, we would leave the most fragile economically responsible to bear the overall costs of the system. We will move forward in a month with the legislation to create the energy communities, which means a great boost, but it will never be enough for the massification of the solar. Our schedule for solar production auctions is as follows: already in July, 1400 MW; in January, plus 700 MW ; in the first half of 2020, auction for landfills ; at the end of 2020, an auction for solar production from the water plans of the trees after the renewal of their landfill plans. Electrifying the country generating electricity from renewable sources and multiplying its storage forms is an environmental challenge, but, in parallel, it is a challenge for technology, for companies, for investment. Only on the solar are we talking about EUR 7 billion in investment over the next 10 years. With auctions, whatever form or result, we will always have lower production prices than the market, with gains for all consumers. The natural tendency of the economy, even if it did not have a safe political drive, is already that of decarbonisation. We reduced emissions by one quarter since 2005 ; only last year we achieved a 9 % reduction compared to the previous year, which triples the reduction recorded throughout the European Union. in the absence of a neutral commitment, the country would reduce its emissions by 60 % by 2050. It's a remarkable trend, but it's not enough. In order to achieve neutrality, the country will have to invest more EUR 2, EUR 5 billion each year, which is estimated at 85 % of the private sector. of the public investment plot, an expressive part will be in the mobility sector. That's how we're doing it, that's how we're programming it. The current transport offer that I can best talk about—in the meters of Lisbon and Porto, in the STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of the Port ), and in the Tejo ships—is even better than it was months ago and better than it was when we started functions. I cannot give better proof than the Soflusa: at the time the strikes were suspended, the operation immediately returned to normal, signal that the existing means are enough. Similarly, the schedules for which an adjustment was scheduled from 8 June were immediately restored. We arrived at the beginning of the PART ( Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme) in the AML ( Lisbon Metropolitan Area ) with a strike ship in the Soflusa and two in the Transtejo and transformed the 30 triple units that were stopped at the Lisbon Metro into a residual value, in good rigor, zero. The search in the meters at STCP has been increasing, but the response in the offer has also been sufficient. Throughout the territory, where most companies are deprived, supply adjustments have continued, with the assurance that, with the new concessions planned for the beginning of next year, the improvement will be even more evident. Our goals are very clear: to reduce transport emissions by 40 % by 2030, making it one third of the terrestrial passenger mobility in that year. These are the objectives needed to achieve the complete decarbonisation of the sector in 2050. About 750 million euros of investment are under way and the forecast for the next investment cycle financed by Community funds is growing significantly, as shown in the National Investment Plan, in evaluation in this House. Democracy has only virtues. I quote freely the President of the Republic who, in relation to party programmes at the last European elections, said he had a general consensus on the need to combat climate change. It will be true, but I am not mistaken with consensus. Never has a government been as far away as ours, in action and in commitment. Even by citing government documents that were not originally prepared by our Ministry, which is an example of the National Investment Plan, it is too clear that this is a collective commitment within the Government and not an isolated effort from the Ministry of the Environment. I conclude: as we said, the next decade is crucial. If democracy is fundamental in setting up various programmes and in different ways to fight global warming, the biggest scourge in our generation, it will be a gross and inexcusable mistake not to reduce our emissions by 50 % by 2030 and 85 % by 2050, confirming Portugal as the country that in the world leads this ambition. If you sometimes hear voices referring to the absence of a design for Portugal, I have no doubt to say that decarbonization should be its primary objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u9	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let's move on to the debate stage. They signed up to request clarification from the Greens Ecological Party. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u10	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u11	Mr Luís Vilhena of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, there is a fact that seems to me more or less obvious: the strategy that was adopted from a certain point of view, about 20 or 30 years ago, for land mobility in Portuguese territory was not the most successful. contrary to what many countries were already doing, favoring collective transport by rail, and not only by collective transport in general, chose to bet on the highways. Today, this option is completely distorted by two essential factors: because it encourages the use of individual transport and because, even if used by public transport, it proves to be less efficient, more expensive in the long term and with energy and environmental costs which are obviously undesirable. We therefore agree that it is urgent to reverse the paradigm that is currently installed. It is true that we are late in renewing the rail transport system, but it is known that the Government has its plans and the investment necessary to move towards an efficient and also attractive system in its use. It is also true that the re-qualification of the rail system has been delayed, because the disaster that came from the de-investment that was by the previous government is largely responsible for an initial inertia that has made it impossible for us to feel this paradigm shift. But, as we wait for the days when this paradigm shift becomes felt, there is a little revolution, more or less silent, which is taking place in large urban centers and which, I am sure, will spread to other places too. This revolution does not even require large government investments, it only needs guidance, rules and actions so that the private initiative and the individual of each citizen can find the conditions to change the habits of how it moves in urban areas. I'm talking about active electric mobility, as is the case with bicycles, and other means of transport that can operate a significant transformation in the way we live the city. The Government has already put forward an initiative which provided some support for the acquisition of electric bicycles. in my view, it is still a little timid, but the government is preparing to present the Portugal Ciclable programme, already with a higher allocation of some EUR 8 million. We are therefore improving and on the right track, although we believe that this should continue to be invested. It is a line of action that can contribute indelibly to the way we move in urban means, in these workhouse cycles, or in schoolhouses, or in the hubs of transport to work, and therefore should be a target of a more convincing bet and therefore with tax support or benefits for those who adhere to this form of mobility, good for the environment, good for health, good for the economy. My question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether the question of urban mobility is one of the ways in which we should in fact invest or whether we should remain solely for the use of classical collective transport. I believe that it is indeed a revolutionary bet and therefore asked him what his opinion on this matter is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u13	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u14	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, climate change is indeed a challenge which everyone calls for and which has to have a cross-cutting approach. I have already welcomed the Greens for bringing the debate on this World Environment Day on this issue of climate change. Decarbonisation is based on the balance between emissions and sinks, and therefore, in addition to reducing emissions — which is achieved by a bet on electric mobility, soft mobility, a reduction in individual transport, but also, for example, in innovation, in particular by the use of new, non-polluting fuels — it is also achieved by increasing the effect of sewerage. And here too, we have, of course, to make a bet, because carbonic neutrality is just that: it is a zero balance. The main carbon sinks are plants, soils and oceans. This same is identified on the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality. Portugal has an Environmental Fund which, this year, has EUR 400 million in budget and whose source is largely due to carbon rates. Do you not think that the Environment Fund should also support investment in sewers? Do you not think that there should be an incentive model for the installation, for example, of forest systems that contribute to carbon capture and prevent the existing forest from burning and CO2 there, literally disappearing? How do you rate the Minister's statements here today when he says that one of the most carbon-producing sectors, precisely the agricultural and forestry sector, is going to have to be content with what is the policy of the European Union? Do you agree, Mrs. Member? In our perspective, in particular, the Environment Fund, of what is known of the government's options, will be applied, in its overwhelming majority, in mobility, leaving those who have the noble function of capturing carbon dioxide to their fate. In view of the honourable Member's support for this government four years ago, she approved four State budgets and therefore cannot lay down responsibilities in this area and the policies of this government, I ask: what do you think about what might be an incentive to the biggest carbon sinks? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u15	Mr. Deputy Moreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth insisting. We knew that the extension of the intermodal social pass and a significant reduction in its price were measures of enormous scope and significance. An enormous significance not only for the population, but fundamental from the environmental point of view to promote collective transport to the detriment of individual transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u18	This is a great step towards a more sustainable environment. The measure taken in recent years that most contributes to environmental protection was the extension of the intermodal social pass. No one can deny that this measure is inseparable from the determined intervention of the CFP which since 1997 has never given up and fought for the expansion, enhancement and reduction of the price of the social pass, ensuring a significant extension of the right to mobility, with clearly positive impacts on the reduction of greenhouse gases. But more investment is needed, we need to go further and it is essential to strengthen public transport, strengthen schedules and careers in various modes of transport. with regard to the CFP, we will continue to insist on measures that contribute to an improvement in the environment. We need to ensure public transport, we need to ensure the strengthening of the number of workers, we need to invest and strengthen the capacity to respond, we need to ensure more transport supply to meet the needs of the people, not delaying what the environment requires for now This is the way. It's urgent to move on! Certainly, the Greens Ecological Party accompanies the CFP in these proposals, in the need of the Government to invest and solve the problems that exist, particularly in the recruitment of workers in need and in the promotion of public transport. Do we count on The Greens? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u19	In response to the three requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u20	Mr President, I thank the honourable Member and the honourable Members. Members who have asked me questions and who have also made some considerations on the subject which the Greens bring here. I would like to begin by replying to Mr Luís Vilhena, saying that, indeed, the rail transport policy, let us say so, has been completely wrong for decades and decades and today we are suffering the effects of these policies. The problem is that, honourable Member, we have been warning about this for many years and the successive government, including the PS, have made a lot of mistakes about this. If we think that in just three decades, about 1300 km of railways have been closed, we realize that this has an impact on the environment, social and economic levels. And if we're drawn on a map the railway lines that have been closed, we understand very well because the interior has become more interior. Because, in fact, closure, denial of basic public services to populations, such as mobility, particularly rail, removes the potential of people's fixation and withdraws businesses. So everything was done on the contrary and today many people have been responsible for crying tears, I don't know if it's crocodile, if not, but apparently crying tears saying that, after all, it was all a disincentive. Listen to us, Mr, we have been saying this for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u21	You have to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u22	It is also a pity to see how in a decade the pendulum mobility that, in the early 1990s, was made mainly by public transport, became mostly done by individual transport. Why? Because public transport did not respond to the needs of citizens. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u23	And more expensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u24	And much more expensive, indeed! They became much more expensive for the population, year after year. Whose responsibility? From PSD and CDS and PS governments. We must take this responsibility — but not just stay there — and in fact reverse the policies for the results to be different. He raised the question of active mobility or soft mobility in urban areas. For it is a question that the Greens are tired of getting up and asking to encourage themselves! Mr Member, you know, it has been much more than a decade since the Greens presented, for the first time in the Assembly of the Republic, a project to make a national plan of cycling routes to connect, including localities. Do you know what the PS vote position was? You voted against it, sir! It's not worth being alone for the speeches! Proposals, concrete measures, are fundamental to being a part of people's lives and responding to the needs of the people. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I consider the forest to be an important factor in carbon retention, and could not be anymore. What I regret—in the logic, of what I was saying—is that the CDS has been one of the main ones responsible for the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, weakening our forest, making it burn faster and easier, Mrs Deputy! You see? Don't hit the boot with the chute! [[CDS-PP protests.]] We, The Greens, have worked for what? To make the forest more resistant, staging the immense monocultures of eucalyptus and betting in the native forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u26	And the honourable Member is right: we cannot keep our agricultural production dynamics dependent on the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy). But what did the PSD and the CDS do, Mrs. Member? That's exactly it! There it is: the speeches are not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u27	No, it's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u28	It is essential that measures reflect what is crucial to reverse reality. Unfortunately, in your ideological logic, that seems completely impossible to me. Mrs Moreira — and I will even finish, Mr President — raised an issue which I think is crucial to stress, with regard to the price of the transport licence, including the intermodal social pass, of the single pass which has now come to be realized and benefiting thousands and thousands of people. But the honourable Member knows that this proposal has been made many years ago, particularly by the Greens and also by the CFP — it is fair to say so. Does the honourable Member remember the response we heard from many governments? « It is not possible! That was a financial disqualification! That was putting companies all to ruin! That would destroy all of them! » And, after all, Mrs. Member, this is unless it is even possible! It's really possible and it's really sustainable! So that shows what? That when you leave the speeches only for concrete measures and take the real measures, that goes there, Mr Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u30	And what do you need? Political will! No proposals have been made by the Green Party! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u31	We moved on to the requests for clarification to the Government. 16 were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be two rounds. First, the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition will answer seven Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then nine Members. Ladies and gentlemen. For the first question, which lies to the Inter-Parliamentary Group, the Greens Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to your initial intervention, and I have heard you again talking about the design or the goal of decarbonizing the economy by 2050, but we cannot leave everything to 2049. It would be good if this were also present, because putting everything back for the future is the easiest one, but it is at the same time insisting on the mistakes of the past. Mr Minister, all modes of public transport are important and complementary to ensure people's mobility, but also to combat climate change, and there is no doubt that rail is the mode that best responds to these two challenges, to mobility and to climate change. in this context, a well-planned and modern rail network that can connect the entire national territory, approaching the interior of the coast, the north of the south and able to reopen the doors with Spain and the rest of Europe, represents a fundamental pillar for the development of our country, for the well-being of people and for its mobility, but also to reduce the ecological footprint with regard to climate change. It was for all these reasons that the Greens put the issue of rail as one of the essential issues during the talks that allowed these four years of governance. Well, we can say that the Greens were the locomotive that pulled the rail transport to the government's roads, but we can also say that the train has, in our view, taken few carriages. And the government is aware of that. And today, as Mr Minister of Infrastructure is not present to deal with this balance sheet, but as the question is to the Government and not to the Minister of the Environment, I will have to speak on these matters—and surely Mr Minister will be able to speak on them, because otherwise the Minister of Infrastructure would be here—and tell him that the balance sheet shows that the Government has met, it is true, some of the commitments it has made with the Greens, but others have failed to fulfil, in particular one that seems to be structural and has to do with the fulfilment of a resolution adopted by this House, which originated in a Greens proposal and concerns the drawing up of a strategic document which would be the basis of a national railway plan. Now, the deadline has passed, and not a line has passed. But we are still waiting for the government to respond to the commitments it has made with us, but it has also taken up with the people. I am referring, in particular, to the branch of Portalegre, which, with the construction of a mere 9 km, will approach the most impoverished district capital of the country to Lisbon and will connect its industrial area to the port of Sines, Spain and, obviously, to the rest of the country, opening the doors to investment and creating employment opportunities. I recall that, by proposal and pressure from The Greens, the replacement of daily passenger transport in the East Line is today a fact and, together with the reopening of the connection with Spain in Badajoz, represents a stimulus for the Portalegre district which cannot go back, requiring, in fact, the service to be improved, in particular with more time. I also refer to the electrification of the railway line between Beja and Casa Branca, returning the direct link from the capital of Lower Alentejo to Lisbon. I am referring to the electrification of the Golden Line to the Little One. And I am still referring to the feasibility study of the reopening of the Corgo Line. It is true that, thanks to this green locomotive, the train has started to integrate governance measures not only with the reopening of services but also with the acquisition and rental of new rolling stock. It happens that the government has taken so long to move forward with these measures that we will certainly only be there for two thousand and never again! We are therefore left with EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) as a lifeline, so that there will not be a collapse in the railway service. Mr. Minister, EMEF has seen new workers enter, it is true, but they do not reach, due to the needs generated by the state in which the circulating material of the CP is found, after decades of underfinancing and without any investment. What I am asking, Minister, is whether the government is actually going to hire, even this year, more workers for EMEF, what we proposed in the State budget, but that the PS has rejected, or if we have to wait for the worst to then hire. Will chaos have to be installed to then act? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u33	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change is now an increasingly felt reality in our day-to-day lives. The transport sector is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions, anything like 25% of the total national emissions, exerting strong pressure on the environment and the quality of life of citizens. in this particular, the decarbonization of mobility became on the agenda. Unfortunately, in the field of mobility and transport, Portugal does not follow this agenda. Despite the much propaganda the government makes, as we have seen here today, there are no more proposals for 2050. Today, there is a constant deterioration of the public passenger transport service, which is in some cases even to the point of need. In the face of trains falling to the ground, the car's electrics to be unloaded, users feeling badly and going through bad moments because of lack of air conditioning, in services which they would allegedly be of excellence, presidents of the transport companies to complain - about the excess of captivating and lack of investment - moreover, these indicators negatively overcome the times of the crisis — and with the president of the river transport company to appeal to users not to come at the point of view, what answers does the government give to the Portuguese? It creates a kind of low-cost public transport, removing seats, for users to be transported as canned sardines—even if it is only necessary to put freight wagons at the service of the users. Then we also had the chance of Mr Environment's saying that, after all, the problems in ships were « healing pains ». And finally we had the new Minister's apologies. It was good for him to apologize, but today we have seen an unjustified failure by the Minister and the Secretary of State to this plenary. It is that the function of the government is not to apologize, it is to act to end this chaos. That is what the Portuguese expect from this government. On the other hand, associated with this chapter of the new socialist electoralist script, here it emerges in this film, I would say terror, the performance of the principal responsible of this all, which is Mr. Prime Minister. It is this which, for four years, did not buy or rent circulating material, did not hire personnel, did not authorize maintenance, and now comes, at the end of four years, near elections, to say: "It is now what it is! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members of the Government, the Portuguese feel every day, in the skin, the price of your disability. Therefore, the PSD intends to present to the country briefly an emergency plan for this sector, which passes through, in the short term, very quickly, a maintenance plan of the rolling stock abandoned on yards, material which, soon, can only constitute scrap metal. It is said by the account report that 50 % of the CP fleet is being abandoned. We also have other proposals that go through decarbonisation, one of which will be the modernisation and electrification of all regional lines, as a way to improve citizens' mobility. But there are other questions that have to be asked to the government. Therefore, Mr Minister for the Environment, I ask you: why is the bet on an expansion plan such as the Lisbon subway, which does not pass a cart for tourists in the center of the city of Lisbon, harming hundreds of thousands of users living outside the centre, worsening their mobility by creating unnecessary transshipments on the network, particularly on the yellow line, which serves populations in the north of 2. the Circular, like the Lumiar, Telleras and the municipalities of Odivelas and Loures, as well as the population of the entire western area that runs to this axis? And why still, Minister, the bet on the most expensive metro project in the world, from 290 million euros to 1700 m of metro? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u35	Mr João Marques of the Socialist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change on World Environment Day is of increasing importance. The planet needs urgent answers, joint answers, in which it is possibly one of the greatest designs of the world: to ensure that today's decisions ensure the maintenance of quality of life, both for today's generations and for future generations! Portugal is in the front line of the fight against climate change! It was the first country in the world to undertake the commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. This government is in line with climate change both in definition and in the implementation of concrete measures aimed at carbon neutrality. Even today, we will have another example, with the launch of a EUR 100 million credit line for decarbonisation and the circular economy! The decarbonization of transport or mobility is fundamental and is an integral part of the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality. Therefore, in this sector, the Government has made one of the most ambitious commitments worldwide by defining a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030! The clear bet on collective transport, an investment of several billion euros, with the implementation of concrete measures such as railway bet, social pass or in support of the acquisition of hundreds of buses, trains and boats is proof that Portugal is on the right path to achieve these goals. Mr. Minister, the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality presents a long-term vision of energy transition, gas oil and gasoline to electricity and hydrogen. This energy transition will require public investment, but also the involvement of the private sector and families. But there are regions in the country where, unfortunately, public transport is not a solution, or because they do not exist, or because they do not have the frequency that makes them a viable alternative and compatible with the lives of people. I speak of the interior of the country, where sometimes the only way to go to work or to go to a consultation to the health centre, is private transport. I speak of a specific reality, which cannot be forgotten in this process of energy transition, especially when gas oil and gasoline cease to be cost-effective, which is already tomorrow, i.e. in 2030 or 2030! Mr Minister, I ask you: at a time when the next Community Support Framework is being discussed, which will certainly contribute to the energy transition, in a social and territorial cohesion perspective, which can bring us forward on solutions within the country, where there are no alternatives to individual transport? Could there be positive discrimination measures for these regions, through support for both the purchase of electric cars or the installation of Community or private cargo stations? The interior is and must be part of the process of decarbonisation of transport! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u37	To request clarification, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate on climate change and public transport is a debate, as has been classified by its authors, urgent and emergency. In fact, what we have seen, at the level of public transport, in the main metropolitan areas, is that there is great frustration and a great revolt because, having been announced a good programme of huge reduction in the average transport rate, this reduction has in some cases reached 70 % to 75 %, we are now facing a huge reduction in supply, which makes many of the means that should be available to allow accessibility to public transport are not. And the Under-Secretary of State and Mobility, sitting next to the Minister, has a very peculiar way of solving the problem. In fact, Mr President-in-Office solves the problem of overcrowding vehicles by taking seats and placing people in a "all to the sauce and faith in God", as in that well-known tactic of Esteves for football purposes. However, Mr Minister, the quality of the public passenger transport service is something which is certified from the company's point of view and cannot be changed, on the basis of a reduction, by quality certifications which are being made to public transport cease to be attributed and expire automatically. I believe that the Minister certainly does not want to be known as the Minister who, from the point of view of certifying the quality of service of public transport in Portugal, has brought it back in terms of meeting European standards of quality of service. That is what the Secretary of State intends to translate into exactly the violation of these rules. So, Minister, I ask you whether you will follow the views of your alter ego in the Government, the Under-Secretary of State and Mobility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u39	Any other ego? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u40	...which, by the way, has a great way to solve the problems of overcrowding, which is increasing the places standing in vehicles, such as for example, is happening with Fertagus, as announced by the metropolitan of Lisbon and how it is also happening in buses, which are being overcrowded. So, Minister, what I wanted to say to you is that there are other ways of solving the problem. One of them is, for example, to increase the frequency of supply of public transport. And on the Lisbon Metropolitan, Minister, the frequency currently being used is 25 % to 30 % lower than the one being planned and the one that has already been achieved in the context of the operation of the Metropolitan. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you whether the main problem of reducing the frequency of public transport will not be solved by hiring people, i.e. drivers, drivers, personnel for river transport. It is that the lack of these, yes, constitutes the great strangulation that justifies the reduction of supply and the real chaos installed in public transport in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u41	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP also has the floor to ask for clarifications :
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to agree that the fight against climate change is cross-cutting, it is everyone's responsibility and the CDS does not want to escape this fight. But the Minister needs — recognizing that this fight is transversal, but also that his Ministry has a central and fundamental role in these matters — to move from words to acts. You can't just promise, you need to make it happen. It promises a lot, but it's been a while. And since I don't want to get out of here, just and just, with an apology, which now seems to be the habit of those who don't realize, I wanted it to be a little further in the explanations of why they failed and why we are deferring those that are the policies that go directly to combat climate change. The Minister today announced, more efusive, more commissary, that there will be no coal power stations. in the Commission said the same thing, saying that we have to do it in a responsible way and that we have to be careful, because we have to bet on renewables but these bets have to be made in a sustainable way. This is the same government that had a Secretary of State saying "we're going to bet on the sun and the feed subsidies are finished in tariffs". The Secretary of State has been dismissed, now we have another Secretary of State and another Minister and, by the way, there will be feed in tariffs disguised as auctions. I ask you, then, Minister : what auctions? At what price? When? And what network? On this matter, we will know later, or not, whether we are going to close the coal plants, but it is better to wait. The Environmental Fund has 50 % dedicated to climate change, including tariff reduction, which is what it is, and also to rolling stock. I do not want to believe that the Minister is those who agree, not with their alter ego, that the solution to combat climate change is to put people like candles on locomotives, boats, buses. There are those who say that this is also done in the most modern countries, withdrawing banks and getting more people, to which I answer that there are also countries in which passengers travel inside and outside locomotives and buses, but I do not know if that is the model that is now being defended for Portugal! Mr Minister, that is not the model that is being defended, I really need to know what has failed - and in the end you may apologize - because on 18 January 2017 the Minister said that on 3 February the notice would be published for the competition for the work for the Arroios station and that it was thus resolved one of the main bottlenecks of the network. Is there already? We don't know! On 10 May 2017, the press published: « Minister wants a plan to renew the fleet of Transtejo and Soflusa completed by the end of the year ». It's passed 2018, we're in 2019 and we can't see anything! Another news said: 'Government reinforces investment in the fleet of Transtejo and Soflus'. Mr Minister, I have no time to continue, nor do I think it is necessary, because there are more than many news about the difficulty of circulating material, about the lack of ships, about the lack of carriages...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u43	There's no lack of ships, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u44	Mr. Secretary of State, the President of Soflusa says there is a lack of ships. If the Secretary of State is alone to dilute what is the feed in tariffs into a narrative that only you understand, I ask him to call the President of Soflusa and she will explain to him how many boats, how many catamarans and how many caterpillars are missing. Maybe that's how I'm sorry to put those asides from who doesn't understand anything about it! But, Mr Minister, tell me in particular — already with the help of Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba — about the Cascais Line, how much new rolling material will arrive and when. What new rolling material is planned for the Cascais Line and for when? This, since the rolling material of the Cascais Line has greatly surpassed its useful life. As for the Sintra Line, a number of trains have been deleted — they are deleted daily! — and I would like to ask the following questions: Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State João Galamba, how many will be and when will the new rolling materials arrive for the Sintra Line? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u45	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, when we talk about public transport, it is important to say clearly that the problem of transport is not to have become cheaper, the problem is to be insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u48	The problem is to have suffered, over decades, chronic underfunding, brutal de-investment and unsustainable restriction on hiring workers; it is to have been considered by governments, not as a fundamental public service for the people and the country, but as a business opportunity for PPPs (public-private partnerships) and privatizations. When, finally, this historic tariff reduction measure that we have been proposing for more than 20 years has been implemented, and that applies to the whole country thanks to the proposal of the CFP in the State budget with the vote against the PSD — yes, with the vote against the PSD, I did not cheat! — there is a concern that cannot be forgotten, Minister : to ensure that these measures to promote public transport and mobility are indeed a reality for the whole country. And this implies taking this matter up as a national bet and putting an end to the logic that each authority knows about itself, every CIM (intermunicipal community) knows about you, etc. It is urgent to intervene to end this abandonment in the interior regions, and there is the result, at the end of many years, of the segmentation, privatization, destruction of the National Road. But it is also urgent for the Government to assume its direct responsibilities, from the outset, in relation to railways and companies under its protection, i.e. to determine the hiring of the necessary workers, to carry out the approved investments, to implement the national rolling stock plan, and nothing in the State budget prevents this from being done, on the contrary, creating conditions for this to proceed, but also ensuring that, in the various regions of the country, the prices of rail transport are reduced without discrimination. We cannot fail to observe — it is perhaps significant — that, in a debate on the importance of the transport sector in the face of climate change, the Minister has spoken more of photovoltaic power stations than of river transport or of the lack of transport in the country. He therefore challenged the Minister to address these issues of lack of public transport, which are fundamental to the lives of people and which must be invested in. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u49	The last request for clarification of this first round lies with Mr André Silva. Please, Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u50	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, I would like to ask you two specific questions on two real mobility problems. First, social passes represent a great measure, with a tremendous scope, since they cover a high percentage of the population. But not everything is good news: for example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, where there was a growth in the sale of passes over 30 %, the offer did not accompany the demand, which spurred a picture of complete chaos in this means of transport, regardless of the alleged mitigation measures implemented, which do not seem to have any effect, as is the case with the slight increase in the speed of the metropolitan. Mr Minister, I would like you to tell us what measures the Government will take to combat this chaos on the subway and also, if it is serious that the solution goes by removing banks from the wagons. Taking advantage of the presence of Mr. Minister, we also want to bring to this debate a very specific real problem that is related to the great impact on the mobility of communities affected by the construction of the High Thame dam, which will submerge a pedestrian bridge linking the villages of Veral, in Boticas, and Monteiros, in Vila Pouca de Aguiar. These villages, by themselves many isolated, will be even more condemned to isolation, since a journey of a little more than one kilometer, which connects these two localities through the bridge, will become a distance of 58 km. Neither Iberdrola, nor the State, nor the authorities concerned are responsible for the removal of these two populations from the interior, already isolated themselves, condemning the people of each village to the impossibility of coexistence between friends and relatives and access to farmland on the other side. In addition to high environmental impacts and being economically harmful to the state, the business related to the Electroproducer system of the Thame has omitted a fundamental counterpart, i.e. the guarantor of the conditions of stay of the communities. See: the road between Veral and Monteiros, which nowadays corresponds to the distance between the Assembly of the Republic, where we are, and the metro station of the Mouse, becomes a route greater than a marathon equivalent to the return route between the Assembly of the Republic and Sintra. We have constantly heard the Government and the Socialist Party defend interest and respect for the rural world, as well as the importance of the interior of the country and of policies for the low density territories. however, in recent years, we have seen the end of railway lines in the interior of the country, the closure of balconies of TC, banks, pharmacy and health centers, the untiring expansion of intensive olive and eucalyptus, the platification of the Costa Vicentina and the destruction of the last free and wild rivers with the construction of large dams that foster the depopulation of the interior. I ask you, Minister of the Environment, whether or not the Government will intercede to solve this problem of the villages of Veral and Monteiros, with the relocation of the pedestrian bridge, avoiding its total isolation and being, in fact, consistent with what they proclaim in terms of defence of the interior and the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u51	At the end of this first round of requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer on behalf of the Government, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the questions you have raised. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with all due respect, did not hear me so carefully, because, in fact, the last thing we are proposing here is that everything should be resolved between 2049 and 2050. With all due respect, it's exactly the opposite! From two years to last year, emissions have been reduced by 9%, and it is exactly in the next decade of 2030 that we will have a more demanding challenge. With all due respect, this is more or less what you said, just exactly the contrary! And because we have to have a fair transition, it seems clear to me that we must eventually announce our commitments. Mr President, reducing emissions by 85 % is even a cyclical task.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u53	For when?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u54	I repeat, it is a cyclical task, and so we have already started it, we have already programmed it, and we have done exactly the opposite of what it says, and in fact more demanding in our goals for this decade. Mr Deputy, the National Investment Plan (NIP) is, in our view, the political response to the compromise — and it is absolutely right; I know - and why - that the Socialist Party assumed, at the beginning of this government, with the Greens Ecological Party. It is true that we had a PETI (Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) very focused on the goods — that is, there is no way to discuss it, as there is no way to discuss that it is now that it is more urgent to do the work that will only be completed in 2050 — and this lack was, in fact, filled with the NIP, where the passenger railway has a very significant expression at the level of investment. On strengthening the contracts of EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company), you know that 102 have already been realized between the end of last year and the beginning of this year and 50 are in progress. Mr Deputy, for the West Line, one of the examples cited by V. Exa, the implementation project is under way, its approval is scheduled for the next few months and it will be after it that the competition will be launched for the work of modernization. Similarly, it is here that two of the locomotives rented to Renfe will come to strengthen the service that exists. With regard to another issue that has been raised and has to do with the connection between Casa Branca and Beja, as you know, this connection was not foreseen in the railway 2020, but the competition for the preparation of the previous study is in preparation. Thus, in line with what the NIP says — which you also know well — the work will be carried out on the temporal horizon of 2021 - 2025. Mr Carlos Silva, with regard to the end-of-time considerations, I imagine that you are no longer listening to me. In fact, I always hear the same question, because it always asks the same question, but I will also be here to always give the same answer, since the question is always the same! I am just focusing on the case that you put on the circular line and the obvious proof that you have no reason. What is increasingly difficult in managing the collective transport network is to be able to make the right match between supply and demand and it is clear that where to strengthen that same offer is at the most demand sites. Therefore, in order to make a very significant contribution to reducing mobility problems in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the circular line is fundamental. On another issue that raised the link between White House and Beja, as you know, this connection was not foreseen in the 2020 Railway, but the competition for the preparation of the previous study is currently in preparation. Thus, aligned with what the NIP ( National Investment Programme) says and that you also know well, in your temporal horizon, that 2021 - 2025, the work will be carried out. Mr Carlos Silva asked a question about the end-of-time considerations. I imagine he's not here anymore to listen to me. In fact, he always asks the same question, but here I will always give the same answer, since the question is always the same! I am just focusing on the case that you referred to the circular line and the obvious proof that he is not right. You have no reason! The most difficult thing in the management of collective transport networks is always being able to make the right match between supply and demand, and it is clear that where to strengthen that same offer is at the most demand sites. Therefore, in order to make a very significant contribution to the resolution of mobility problems in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the circular line is fundamental, because it will be from the moment we manage to solve the problems in the center of the Metropolitan Area - which naturally coincides with the city of Lisbon itself - that can be thought of the radial extension of the metro, either as a « heavy metro», or as other heavy forms of collective passenger transport. As for the car-sel for tourists—it has been said many times, but I do not resist saying it again—the traffic studies that have been done make it very clear that this is the line that has the greatest demand. Interestingly, all studies have a failure: they never counted tourists and therefore the traffic that is added on account of exactly those same tourists is not under study. [[Protests from Mr. PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] Mr. João Marques, there is indeed a direct answer to the question he raised: by the end of this year the entire pilot phase of MOBI.E electric car chargers will be completed. What does this conclusion mean? Ensure that all city halls have these same loading posts. Immediately following this will then be launched the concession for slow loading posts, which, in addition to the 50 fast loading posts that already exist, is a fundamental warning to be installed more than 100. Also liberalized is the payment and electric loading of cars in places deprived of public access, read in parking parks. There is no headquarters for the council that it does not already have the same capacity to come to have much faster than our own pilot project, these same loading stations. The best solution of the collective form for transport in low-density territories is flexible transport and the PART is paying flexible transport. Flexible transport, which is a creation of this government, is flexible at times, flexible in the size of the vehicle, flexible at the exact place where the stop is and therefore a transport on request. An increase in supply through the PART is also being financed in the plot which many of the CIMs have chosen not to reduce tariffs but to increase rail transport. [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]] Mr. Heitor de Sousa, the numbers are a bore, they don't agree with you. They don't really agree with you! in the Port metro, the demand last year increased by almost 4 % and this year by more than 8 %. It is very curious, because for several years there has been a gradual increase in transport, more at the expense of occasional titles than monthly titles, and, in fact, with the PART, this logic has been reversed. That is why the increase has been, above all, at the cost of purchasing monthly titles. The fulfilment of the Port metro traffic in April was 99, 4 %. By now, the Lisbon subway was 99, 8%. [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]] Mr. André Silva, it is not to say that there are chaos. Yesterday I also heard the chairman of the Lisbon Metro User Committee speaking on television and saying that in all European countries the metro works at night. Well, it happens that nothing works, and it's not because someone gets here and says they work everywhere at night that something works at night. It's not like that. There is no such thing as chaos, and because you have repeatedly said that there are chaos, the situation remains the same. There is no comparison between the offer of the Lisbon metro today and the offer of the Lisbon metro some time ago, and not long ago, because the entire fleet is recovered. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] It is indeed extraordinary that, after numerous complaints, I do not say in this Chamber, about the fact that on the red metro line there is no room for the suitcases of those who go to the airport and about the fact that they have appeared baby carts on the subway— precisely because transport is now free, and it has been for some time, as you know, in particular in the Caris and the Lisbon metro for the younger ones—the Lisbon metro administration has created, and quite well, a space for these bags to be deposited and for these same baby carts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u55	That's a very strange way to announce the baby boom!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u56	And what I see. Ex. They're saying they're tearing banks! There's one thing that's true and it's going to be hard for us to discuss. The area in square meters of a composition of the Lisbon metro was not changed by this government. That, in fact, was reform that we did not do, so you are absolutely right. Of course, it is even important that these same square meters are affected by the new forms of search. As far as Soflusa is concerned, I cannot set a better example than this. The strike's over and there's no problem in the transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u57	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u58	I am not assigning responsibility for this strike or strike that. But it's a fact... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Excuse me, sir? Thank you very much. It's a fact that... [[Continued protests of BE and PCP.]] I'm sorry, but I have a physical defect: I'm deaf. I use two hearing aids. Hearing aids have a strange frequency that prevents me from listening to myself when you talk, so I apologize, I repeat, I have a physical defect, I am deaf, and I can't actually carry on like this. It's absolutely objective. The Soflusa, from the moment the strike ended, began to transport passengers regularly, the one to which it has, after all, a strike ship and not less ships. Mr André Silva's question on the bridge he referred to is on the agenda for discussion. There is a commission to follow up exactly the work of the dam. at the end of this month, I cannot say the exact day, there will be a follow-up committee to discuss what is going on with all the works and with the continued assessment of their environmental impacts and on that same day will be discussed. It is a point that is on the agenda and I sincerely hope that there will be a solution that goes to the meeting, nor would I say of its claim, of the claim of the inhabitants of those two villages. Mr. Hélder Amaral, the energy auctions have exactly the opposite objective of what you have stated. Quite the opposite. If we are able to reach 80 % electricity from renewable sources in 2030, there is no doubt that it is also much for the work that has already been done. Today we already have 50 % electricity coming from renewable sources, and this has happened because, at a time when technologies were immature, there was indeed a financial incentive for the implementation of these projects. I am not going to talk about what happened in 2013, which seems irrelevant to me, nor to remember who would be in government at the time, but what happens is that these contracts will come to an end. There was a second moment when it was believed, and I do not question the principle, that electricity could be produced at market costs. I do not question the principle, I insist, but I have nothing to show you. That is, there are very few, even very few, power stations, particularly solar plants, which have emerged in this context. Therefore, what really makes sense is to produce electricity from renewable sources below market cost. Therefore, the one who was once an overcrowded will necessarily be an overcrowding to consumers now. The two forms that coexist within the same auction will be compared to one, proposed by the proposal. And now the auction starts with geography. We know much more than 1, 4 GW, we know — and that's what's going to be auctioned — each point of the network that exists, also allowing out of the auction to be built projects in which the connection to the network and the reinforcement of the network itself can be paid. Guaranteedly, this is an auction in which any megawatt that comes to be produced will always be at a lower cost than the market. Making time for myself with regard to the next intervention, Mr President, with regard, for example, to the Cascais Line, I will remind you of just what the funds provided for in the POSEUR (Operational Programme of Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) were for the Government which you included: it was zero. It was really nothing. at present, EUR 50 million are there, the notice is open and will conclude-CL will be at the end of July. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u59	We now turn to the second round of questions to the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition. First of all, to this end, you have the words of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u60	Mr President, Minister, one of the problems that the Government has exposed throughout this legislation, particularly in the field of transport, but we could also refer to other areas of the environment, in particular that which was the action of the Government on the issue of pollution in the Tejo, and I have already said this several times to the Minister, is that the government often runs behind the damage. What do I mean by this? Let things reach the limit, when they are absolutely predictable. For example, if we take into account the problem of transport in Transtex and Soflusa, the issue of the aging of the fleet was more than known and recognized, as well as the issue of failures, the question of the need for new ships. If the competition had been launched in 2017, we might have had new ships already in 2018. If it had been in 2018, we might have had it in 2019. Having been opened or launched at the beginning of 2019, most likely before 2020 or 2021 ships will not be here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u61	If everything goes well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u62	I mean, let yourself be dragged! Do you understand, Minister? So, what's going on? When things are absolutely predictable, a proactive attitude by the government is required to keep things from reaching this limit. There is something else, which is a lack of strategic vision on the part of the government, which often does it is to act in the short term and not to have the perspective of the future. A good example of this is the Alentejo Railway Line. The Greens have achieved, in this State budget, the government's effective commitment to electrification of the line in the White House-Beja section, but the Government has refused to promote a commitment in the Beja-Funcheira connection, i.e. in the connection of the Alentejo Line to the Algarve Line, which is a determining issue. This lack of strategic vision actually inhibits a development potential, particularly in this railway network, which is to be regretted by the Greens, because we could go faster in the right direction and what the government does is to shrink into the obvious necessary solutions. Since I am talking about the railway issue, I believe that there is also something that people are already legitimately fed up, which is about promises to solve the problems, when these promises are not fulfilled. Expectations are created and populations only face problems: with time suppression, with train suppression. This is why the populations that use the West Line live daily. Mr Minister, concrete answers are needed. When will the problem of the West Line be solved? That is, when is the electrification and rolling stock sufficient to respond to the needs of the populations? I ask the same question about the question of the Cascais Line and the Sintra Line. Mr Minister, it is completely unsustainable what people live in their day-to-day lives. Even to finish, Minister, I would like to say that it is still loaded that suddenly begin to sprout baby carts on the subway and on Fertagus! Don't stop being charged! So they didn't exist before? Never these companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u63	It's the baby boom!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u64	Now is there a Christmas boom that Fertagus and the subway have to answer? Oh, my God! They want to see you, Minister! They want to see! Does Mr. Minister think it is normal for Fertagus to tell people who come from Setúbal to Lisbon, which takes an hour, who are standing? What the subway also says is « come canned sardines». You think this is normal? Is the question of comfort not also a fundamental question? The supply must be in accordance with the needs of the populations, also managing the comfort that the populations deserve. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u65	To put the next question, Mr. Bruno Vitorino, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the government has sold us the idea that the reduction of the price of passes would help reduce the use of individual transport. The questions asked are the following: is this the only factor? Is that really what's happening? Is that what's gonna happen? How is the situation of transport in the Setúbal district today, which I know best? With regard to Soflusa, Minister, there is chaos: suppressions, delays, people sleeping at the station.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u67	When there's a strike, it's like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u68	According to what Mr. Minister is saying, the blame was on the strike and is still on strike, but the Soflus has already announced a new schedule. The new schedule, which will enter into force in a few days' time, has the abolition of careers in a rush hour. I hope that it will actually be to go back and ignore. The paralysiss that are already marked for tomorrow, for peak time, and that will affect, once again, I do not know how many people, I hope they will be done. I hope that, until the strike that is already announced for day 12, until then, be confused and that there is no problem whatsoever. I hope that the ships will not fail again, because at the moment maintenance is already done in a timely manner. I hope, therefore, that there will never again be any ship remaining on the ground and will therefore affect many more people. Let us hope, in fact, that the problem in Soflusa will be solved. Transtejo, Minister, is also the face of embarrassments, suppressions, in Seixal, in Almada, in Montijo. Let us hope that Mr. Minister has that notion. The same is true of CP, with hundreds of suppressions. in the TST ( South Tejo Transport ), no Minister, the problem of career 333 is not solved. In the morning, the problem is minimized, but we continue to have problems on the return, and it is unacceptable for the Minister to tell those users that the problem is solved. With regard to Fertagus, Minister, withdraw the banks? Oh, my God! Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Mobility, who is next to you, is very agitated. Is Mr. Secretary of State ordering the banks to be removed? Oh, my God! Don't you see any problems? Oh, my God! From Setúbal to the Areeiro are 58 minutes and Pinhal Novo to the Areeiro is 44 minutes, that is one of two or three public transports that people often have to use to get to their jobs. Mr. Secretary of State does not see any problem with this, because Mr. Secretary of State will continue to walk on your cart, with the frightened tail, having no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u69	So it wasn't the private that was so good? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u70	But people, day by day, have to work, so, of course, there is a problem in this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u71	I could swear Fertagus was private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u72	Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u73	Mr President, Minister, the last time the Left Block brought this issue here was last Friday, having had the opportunity to alert you to the fact that, at that very moment, in the Barreiro terminal, there was chaos with the people trying to enter ships that had no lotion to receive them. I would say that the way in which the Minister replied to me was that, if he looked at it, I would have been fulminated at that moment, because he wanted to ensure that everything was quiet. But on statements and assurances of tranquility, we already understand what we can expect from the Minister. Others, in a way more humble, eventually apologized for recognizing mistakes. The Minister does not recognise that there is a disorder in transport, that the problem is not only in Soflusa, it is in everyone. It has already been reported here the case of TSTs and how career333 does not give flow, here it has been reported the case of Fertagus, which has to remove banks, and many other cases have already been reported. It's not just us alerting. The authorities have been alerting. Even yesterday, the City Council of Almada unanimously approved a motion of protest to the Government, proposed by the Left Block, because of the problems in the Transtejo — there are also those in the Transtejo! — and in the Soflusa. The Minister's answer has been solely to blame the workers. There is no blame on anything, it is only to blame the workers, as if it were the workers' fault the lack of teachers, as if it were the workers' fault the lack of boats, as if it were the workers' fault that the government did not stir up a straw to solve the problems until 2019, as if it were the fault of those who bought the pass that the government had not invested in public transport. Now, just like that time Mr. Minister looked at me, with the air he wanted to fulminate me, and, 5 minutes later, in the news, he noticed the chaos and damage caused in the Barreiro terminal — 5 minutes later! — because of the tranquillity that the Minister has guaranteed that there was and, after all, there was no such thing as this, we will also wait to see, because the solutions that the Government has found are not sufficient. What I would like to ask, Minister, is the following: whose fault is it, after all, that there is not a public service contract signed between the Government and the Transtejo and the Soflusa to allow the necessary investment, instead of having to request permission from Minister Mário Centeno for every cent you want to invest in workers or ships?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u75	Whose fault? on whose table is this contract three years ago to be signed, leading to the failure to make the investment and investment planning necessary in Transtejo and Soflusa? Whose fault is it, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u76	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, we have already discussed the single pass, for which the implementation of the CFP has been fighting for more than 20 years, in a persistent and decisive intervention that has borne fruit, in particular for the Metropolitan Area of Porto. And, yes, this is a measure of enormous social scope, which contributes to improving the living conditions of workers and families, and is also a measure with significant environmental impact, because the most affordable prices encourage the use of collective transport, reducing the use of individual transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u79	Enlargement and encouragement for the use of public and collective transport and the full implementation of this measure in the Metropolitan Area of Porto also requires that the family pass be a reality quickly. It was important to know what the government is doing, in conjunction with the Metropolitan Council of Porto, so that the family pass effectively has a speedy implementation. The improvement of the coverage of the network and the supply of public transport in the region, in order to respond to the dynamics that are being created and to the increase in the demand that exists, is essential for the encouragement of the use of collective transport, either in the reinforcement and expansion of the STCP, which is currently in another sphere of competence, or in the necessary investment that needs to be made in the Port metro and in the urban trains serving the region. About the Port Metro, Mr. Minister, without forgetting the connection to the Trofa or the extension of the line to Gaia, as well as other localities of the district, we were still in action last Sunday in Gondomar Town Hall, exactly to claim the extension of the metro line. Gondomar is the only municipality of the first ring of the Metropolitan Area of Porto where the metro does not reach the center of the municipality, the headquarters of the municipality. It should also be recalled that there is a resolution adopted in this House on a proposal from the CFP on the extension of the metro line to Gondomar.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u82	Mr Minister, what does the Government have to say to the people of Valbom and S. Cosme, who have been waiting for 10 years for the subway at the headquarters of the municipality, in the center of Gondomar, and now on a metro line that effectively serves their mobility needs, what does not happen to the most recently announced tracing? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u83	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Germana Rocha of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, there is no doubt that one of the sectors that has most consequences for climate change is that of transport. The truth is, unlike VV. Ex.as announce, and very specifically in the Porto district, the increase in demand for public transport has not had the most adequate answers, which has caused the number of complaints submitted by the Porto users to increase by 93 % between 1 April and 29 May. This shows a notable lack of solutions at this level, which results from the lowest public investment in which there is memory. Mr Minister, constituting the metro as a fundamental means of transport, in a network that is intended to be modern, effective, comprehensive and less polluting, what I ask you is whether this government will achieve or not the expansion of the Port metro network, in order to serve the populations of the various municipalities. I wonder if you will assume, once and for all, before the Legislature, which lines will advance or if, by mere electoral tactics, you will continue to pretend that it is nothing with the Ministry that you lead, delaying decisions, in passing of responsibilities to the Metropolitan Area of Porto. It is that these delays affect every day the populations of the district, such as Gondomar, which continues without metro to the center of the municipality. Mr. Minister, the inhabitants of the Port district are not interested in knowing which entity will resolve the situation. They want the situation solved, because they are already tired of promises and apologies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u85	The next request for clarification lies with Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u86	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, I have heard him answer to the question that has already been raised about the wire bridge on the Thames, which links the Town Hall of Vila Notoca to Guide Boticas, because of the construction of the dam. It is not new, indeed, already known that the bridge will be built, the question is whether the bridge will be built in order to connect the two locations in question: Monteiros, in the Town Hall of Vila Pouca de Aguiar, and Veral, in the Town Hall of Boticas. It's not that liquid! It seems that the bridge will be built the great distance from the localities and the question that arises is not about the connection of the municipalities, but about the connection of these two localities: Veral, in the municipality of Boticas, and Monteiros, in Vila Pouca de Aguiar. Then, Minister, you will certainly agree with me if I say that the metropolitan of Lisbon is one of the most important public transport operators in the city. however, the complaints of users regarding the degradation of services, the delays verified and even the constant disturbances in the lines are frequent, not to say even constant. One of the most frequent complaints is related to waiting time, since the metro could circulate with a frequency of 3 minutes, which would be desirable, but often, in certain hours and lines, reaches 12 minutes, this in addition to the speed being 45 km/h, despite the network being designed for speeds around 70 km/h. at the level of human resources, since there was a reduction in effectiveness, during four years of PSD / CDS governance, without the companies of the state business sector could hire people, also the lack of workers in metropolitan is notorious. Mr President, what are the Government's plans for the subway? Confirm that there are stopped compositions to serve as parts, so that other compositions can work? Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask: what is going on with the Arroios station? The station has been closed since July 2017 for expansion works and expected to be reopened in 18 months, but time has passed. Another deadline was given for the second half of 2019, but we are almost at the end of the first half of 2019 and nothing! We are facing the « works of St. Grace »! What's the matter with the metro station in Lisbon, Minister? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u87	The next request for clarification is from Mr Fernando Barbosa, from the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, life, as well as politics, is made up of options. There are those who seem very good to us and, in the short term, they become disastrous, just as there are those who appear to be disastrous, in a short period of time to prove themselves right. We're right in front of this one. The left-wing parties agreed on efforts to give body to the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction. We have no doubt that this is one of the best measures ever taken to encourage the use of public transport, to the detriment of the use of private transport. at a time when climate change is an emergency, let us not let campaigns, orchestrated or not, transform the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in the guilty by the chaotic state of public transport, especially in metropolitan areas. This measure allowed cheaper passes. They say the parties on the right that it is unfair, particularly because funding is not the same throughout the country. It is not the same, but it is fair, because the funds are related to the number of trips. Therefore, there is a need for real public investment to improve and increase both the transport lines, as a supply, or the number of passengers, while seeking, throughout the national territory. As for those who say that the measure only favors those who travel, this is also a fallacy, but let's see: every more passenger in public transport is less a car in the traffic lines, less a car stopped in second row or on the rides and less a car to pollute. Therefore, the gains of this measure are for the whole population. however, the complaints have increased and, on the other hand, we cannot forget that, when summer comes, there is an increase in the number of tourists, which increases the demand in public transport, leading to its overcrowding. The reality is that for decades right-wing governments, PSD and CDS, but also PS majority governments have encouraged the use of private transport, with the construction of motorways and parking parks to the center of cities, leading to the abandonment of investment in public services. Now, we all pay this bill. It is the duty of the Government, represented here by the Minister, to ensure that these complaints are not associated with the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, and to that end some problems need to be solved, in particular by combating the decades of de-investment in public transport. With regard to these problems, it is common for the Minister to respond with the announcement of a large increase in the purchase of buses and other equipment. We cannot forget the case of buses purchased for STCP, where there are five lines where buses cannot pass, because they are too high to pass under the viaducts. Moreover, in addition to the rolling stock it is ordered, it is necessary to order more to, when it is delivered, continue to renew the material. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to follow the Left Block as to the need to promote the recruitment of more workers to improve working conditions and combat absenteeism, since the better working conditions and professionals, the better public transport provided will be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u89	The next request for clarification lies with Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, I would like to bring you a question on the PART, the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction in Transport. This programme, which has been launched as a good idea with regard to mobility, the environment and even the consumer's stock market, is now news on all televisions, on all radios, on all newspapers, and it is news every day for bad reasons, because, in fact, what we need is not the applause, satisfaction and success but, yes, the growing problems of these measures. As Mr Minister knows, the PSD, in due course, drew attention to the validity, wealth and importance of this measure, but also to two original sins it contained: one of them was the lack of equity in its territorial application and the other was the lack of adequate supply for imminent search. Mr Minister, we know what happened, we know what is happening now, two months ago, with the PART in newspapers, every day, for bad reasons. My question is whether the Minister considers that this measure has been implemented in the way that he dreamed of it and is satisfied with the outcome. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u91	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, is undeniable the progress that the enlargement of the social pass represents: progress in the mobility of populations, progress in the available income of families, progress also from the environmental point of view, with more than 100 000 users in collective transport and therefore much less cars to be circulated. It is undeniable that this advance, which is recognized by the people, is recognized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u94	There were more than 100 000 users, but there could be many more if there were investments to improve and increase the supply of public transport. That's the investment you've missed, Minister! at CP, we watched dozens of daily suppressions in the Sintra Line, but also the constant delays in the Azambuja Line and others, in which users lose hours of their lives due to lack of investment. There are not enough workers for maintenance, which is already periodically immobilizing part of the fleet, and from day 16 the lack of workers in the CP will lead to the closure of tickets for these workers to accompany trains, also providing more restrictive schedules. in the metro of Lisbon, problems are accumulated because of the lack of investment and the contracts that the government insists on blocking. If more workers were hired to maintain the road, if they were to invest in a plumber that was not 50 years old and that didn't fail day yes, day no, there were much less problems in the lanes, much less incidents and, therefore, less time to wait and less delay. In Fertagus, too, it is necessary to provide an answer to the greater use that occurs that safeguards the public interest and guarantees a quality service, with more offer, which is only possible with the purpose of PPP (public-private partnership). in river transport, Transtejo and Soflusa, it is necessary to respond to the lack of workers, which causes the suppressions and leave the populations without alternative. It is necessary to invest in order to end these situations that harm people and limit the scope, also environmental, of measures such as that of the social pass. Is the government available to make these investments, to allow these employee contracts and thus solve the problems or are we going to continue to attend the apology applications, while still channelling the entire budget strike to speed up the deficit? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u95	To respond to the nine requests for clarification on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer as many questions as possible at the time I have available. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, between July and September, will already be available the locomotives necessary to strengthen the service on the West Line. With regard to the news, made public yesterday, of the reduction of the Sintra Line supply due to the renewal of the schedules, we know that it is false, what exists is that during the summer there will be two trains that will be together and, in this way, we will be able, with a smaller number of workers, to provide exactly the same number of services. Mr. Bruno Vitorino, the notes of last week's debate do not serve this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u97	No ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u98	I know the subject is always the same, but, in fact, last week's notes are old! They're old! The issue is mobile and therefore they are no longer useful. [[Protests by PSD MP Bruno Vitorino.]] Mr President, last week it was indeed published a time to ensure that there was no end to the strike. Now, as the strike is over, the timetables have already been restored and the offer provided for in the Soflus is now being met. That's how it happens and what's going to happen. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, I apologize for my gaze, but I tried to do what Barthes was not able to do, which was to create a seventh function for language, but look at it was absolutely involuntary! It was absolutely involuntary! [[Laughs from BE MP Joana Mortágua.]] Mrs Deputy, honestly, I find it unfair to talk about chaos and I think it is unfair even for the workers. I never blamed anyone! What I said—and I cannot understand, word of honour, I have my limitations, in how this may be contested—is that the acute problems of the Soflus occurred last week, occurred during a period of strike at extraordinary hours. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] It would have been much worse this week if it had not reached an agreement, at least with one of the unions, which allowed the same strike to be lifted. The public service contract is very close to being signed...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u99	Ah! He's not yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u100	The existence of the PART forced the accounts to be redone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u101	He's been running accounts for a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u102	Mrs Diana Ferreira, the CFP continues to have a bad experience with the fact that in the proposal you made in this House, you do not want any metro lines in the city of Porto. Mrs Deputy, it makes every sense that there are metro lines where there is a greater demand and clearly the case of the Trofa Line is not one of these cases. Mrs Rocha, I note, but I do not think it will be accompanied by her party or by her bench by the centralism with which she puts the question, because in fact, it is the centralist proposal that makes it the government that has to impose on the Metropolitan Area of Porto what the expansion of the metro should be. Madam Member, I would like to remind you what is also very simple: what was planned and what was our heritage, in terms of investment and transport, in the metropolitan of Porto, as in the metropolitan of Lisbon, coming from the Government's programmes that preceded us... [[Protests from PSD Deputies Antonio Costa Silva and Germana Rocha.]] ...and what the POSEUR's money was zero! It was really nothing! There was no discussion here about whether it was the circular line or whether it was the expansion of the red line, whether it was the pink line of the Port or if it was another one. There was no discussion, there was nothing to do, nothing would have been done, designed or programmed if we had not changed — and how! — the rules of the game with regard to financing. And yes, it has been said publicly by me, and as long as I am a minister it will be, that the money for the expansion of the Port for the next cycle of Community funding is established, is EUR 800 million to divide between heavy metro and subway and who will decide even what connections to be made—because, in fact, I, unlike you Ex, am not a centralist—is even the Port Metropolitan Area. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, on the bridge I have nothing more to add. As far as the Lisbon metro is concerned, if I told Mr. Bruno Vitorino that the notes were a week ago, don't hurt me, but when he talks to me about the cannibalization of pieces, he's certainly talking about some notes he's got three years ago. [[Protests by Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Three years ago because, in fact, at the moment, there is no stopped composition for late maintenance, as there was — and there was 30 — in the metro in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u103	The carriages are beer now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u104	And, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, what happened to the Arroios station was that the contractor failed and abandoned the work. We had to launch a new contest. Portugal is a rule of law, I know we agree, and there is no other way to do this. There were seven pre-qualified companies and the proposals will be delivered in July. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, I heard two things, in fact, one I already knew and I knew another: if the Democratic Social Party voted against the PART, today I would do it again. In fact, here, unlike other matters, the PSD did not resolve back, it thought it should maintain the position it took at the time. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] I think there's always a second chance in these things and what I see is VV. Ex. they totally wasted it. All Portuguese are aware that the PART, which is certainly the most relevant fair transition project in favour of decarbonisation, has deserved the vote against the PSD and continues to deserve the vote against the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u105	We will move on to the stage of the interventions and the first of these will be the responsibility of Mr André Pinotes Batista of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u106	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: It is even overwhelming to start discussing climate change, which, apparently, few people here today, wanted to discuss, but finally, it is parliamentary freedom. however, on World Environment Day it is good to greet the government for what it has done, not only on this day but every day since it took possession. Let's see: in 2015, we knew the urgency of dealing with the negationists, those who do not accept that climate change exists. Today we know something else: it is also very important to confront the Green Agenda opportunists. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Yes, the opportunists of the Green Agenda are those who, once in the government, have done nothing and who now, in the opposition, try to hang — and I think it is a good image — try to hang untidyly on a train, on a ship, on a bus that has clearly lost. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are afraid - we are doing so with ambition. In fact, it has already been shown here that the reduction of emissions by 2030 to 40 % is not of any importance and reveals the commitment of this Government in this matter. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we talk about the environment, today we always talk about environmental urgency. And it is good to revisit the dictionary to ask ourselves what it is, after all, this urgency: it is said of what is urgent, what is urgent to resolve, what cannot be different, what is imminent. It is also said of what you were supposed to have resolved when you were in the government and, at that time, they saw no urgency, at that time they saw no need, at that time they had no concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u107	All right! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u108	That is, the previous PSD/CDS government comes today to say that it is now that it is. Indeed, they come to ask us and we say that yes, that it is already being, when there was a huge difference in your time, because it was never and never would, and this is something that makes us very satisfied. But let me come true, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. This right, and especially the PSD, has a very heavy, very deep footprint. Were you not the ones who reduced the supply of public transport by 25 %? They were, of course! Aren't you the gentlemen who decapitalized the companies and disinvested in the maintenance plans? Oh, my God! [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] That's what the numbers say! Furthermore, you have signed sub-concessions that pre-contracted equipment that was not a friend of the environment: diesel buses, in second hand. But these things are no longer of interest, because we know urgently that you didn't have any when you were in government, and we realize that you don't have any opposition now. You have blocked the electrical policies in transport, voted against the PART, and it is true that the PSD had a chance here today perhaps to mask a little the bad impression that you have left, but no, you insist! Therefore, for Portuguese it is clear: the most revolutionary measure of public transport, the one that is most impacting in the fight against CO2 emissions, the one that contributes most to the fight against climate change, you have been against, are against and seem to want it to run badly to continue to be against. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] But now, in order to finish, let me stress that the 750 million investment of this government — and we will not only see the logic of transport, but also the environmental logic — have the following: that the increase in the capacity of the port and the Lisbon metro is not a car for tourists to walk, as Mr PSD said here. And more: the 710 buses—and they ask when but some are already circulating—are moved with energy friends of the environment and the 10 new ships of the Soflus too! It is therefore necessary to reinforce that, in addition to doing what you have not done, we are doing so with the concern that you have not had, to take care of the environment and to take care of the planet, because climate emergencies are not a verb-to-fill at the height of a debate, they are something that moves political action and this government and this party have a structured political action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u109	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To this end, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Pinotes Batista, on the abolition of trains, ships, finally, on all the evil that is going to transcend public transport in Portugal, to the contrary it would suffice to invoke the words of two presidents of camera of the Socialist Party. Listen to what Mr. President of the Chamber of Sintra, Basilio Horta, and what Mrs. Inês Medeiros says in Almada, to verify that these are not our statements, are neither more nor less statements by two well-known authors in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon,... [[All right!]] [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u111	... of two municipal chambers led by the Socialist Party. [[Well remembered! There's more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u112	in his speech, Mr André Pinotes Batista also sought, in a way, to understand that this is a leading government in what is the fight against climate change, in contrast with the previous government, which, in this regard, says Mr Deputy, has done nothing. Mr President, I will give you two indicators or two statistical data so that you can comment. Energy dependence : we left the Government with Portugal on an energy independence of 72, 40 %. Mr Deputy, in 2017, this energy dependence has not decreased, it has increased. Do you know how much it is today? 79%! And you say that this is a leading government in combating climate change. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u113	Second indicator: ranking of countries with better performance in climate action. Mr Deputy, the former Government left Portugal in 4. the position. Do you know where Portugal is currently located? on 14. The position! If this is a leading government in the fight against climate change, we are talking! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u114	You have the floor to answer, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a very brief way, I would like to leave two notes, starting with the indicators. Mr President, do you not see that this is the testimony of your government's incompetence? These indicators evolved this way because you didn't do what had to be done! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, for God's sake, it's a matter of logic! We don't solve environmental problems by smashing our fingers! But, sir, I promised myself that I would not lose more than 30 seconds with your lack of notion. The authors you've talked about know that this government talks with them, you know that this government talks with the local government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u116	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u117	... and, look, until the PART, this measure that they voted against was done in dialogue, even with PSD autarchs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u118	We move on to the next intervention, which is for Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Climate change is the biggest threat we face and require a behavioral revolution in our daily and political choices. The general concern of citizens is justified. Climate change is having profound impacts, visible to this day and absolutely devastating in the near future of our planet. Loss of biodiversity, storms and floods, desertification of territories, food shortages, forced migration, sea advance, are extreme phenomena that grow every day. Portugal is on the list of countries that are, and will be, most affected. This is therefore a fight where every option counts, a fight for which we are all summoned but in which we, elected decision makers, have particular responsibilities. In the face of the reluctance of some delinquents, the Europe in which we live assumes itself as a world leader on this agenda and we are proud to do so, despite all that is to be done. The PSD takes the environment as a priority, not only in speech but in consequent political action. It was always so, not only on Environment Day or when the theme became popular. We were pioneers when, in the 1980s, we put the environment in the government sphere. We have made the difference when, over the last decades, we have been responsible for the main advances and the introduction of major environmental causes on the Portuguese political agenda. More recently, in the previous legislature, we were responsible for a vast nationally and internationally recognized legacy of implementing environmental policies and combating climate change and better environmental performance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the path to the decarbonisation of the economy, the transport sector and mobility solutions are absolutely essential. In this way, we have linked the Green Growth Commitment, which unites the State and civil society in an economic development strategy based on good environmental practices, to concrete reforms in the transport sector, with effective and evident results and improvements. It was with the reform of green taxation that we also operated on the change in the transport sector. We created the carbon rate, using the revenue obtained to lower other taxes; we changed the taxes on vehicles based on carbon emissions; we created incentives for electric mobility for the purchase of electric vehicles, hybrid plug-in, LPG and GNV; we approved the deduction of VAT for electric vehicles or plug-in; we introduced incentives for the creation of shared mobility systems in companies; we created incentives for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles replaced by electric vehicles or hybrids; we introduced the limitation of emissions for state vehicles and created ECO.MOB, ensuring European funding for the purchase of 1000 electric vehicles for the Portuguese State. Unfortunately, this government and the Minister decided to slow down, reverse measures and loosen the reformist momentum we were imposing. They now turn on the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, but do not even implement European funding available. The Complaint Portal points out that in one year more than 250 % of claims were made on electric vehicle loading posts. They provide us with measures to encourage the use of public public transport, but they allow the service and equipment to be degraded at third world levels. Lack of maintenance, lack of trains, lack of boats and buses. Every day we see news about the removal of services and people can be transported or abandoned without a mobility solution. Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, it is no good to come to Parliament to apologize or to present the same measures and objectives several times but not to show progress in implementing them. The fight against climate change and the decarbonization of the economy are not compatible with narratives or propaganda. This must be everyone's concern! It cannot be a concern of the citizens outside, who cannot find an echo in government action. It is not enough to promise, it must be realized. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u120	Mr President, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification, so we proceed to the following intervention. Therefore, Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : Mr Minister, I apologize to you, but I will start by referring to Mr Bruno Coimbra's intervention. Mr Bruno Coimbra, your speech was nothing but echoes of former Minister José Moreira da Silva... [[Jorge!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u122	...and by Carlos Moedas, but on environmental policy and climate change, in Portugal, Portuguese know zero. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u123	I also see that the attention you are giving me is zero and that this is the attitude you have for the Portuguese. Mr Environment, I would like to say that we agree with the urgency of improving the quality of life in cities, given the acute situation resulting from climate change, and what we are asked to do, that is, not only to be responsible but to have a complete ambition and to do what has never been done. Let me also say that I agree with this statement, but also with the need to rebalance our way of life. We need to change our lives to achieve the objectives of decarbonization and to improve life on our planet. The ambitious and demanding script for decarbonization presented in the last COP24 ( 24 ). the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Climate Change) covers all sectors, is a cross-sectional roadmap and has an inherent concept of urgency. This feeling, today, is present in our society and, in particular, in the new generations, in a manifestation of appeal for us to bring about these changes, let us bring about changes at the level of our climate. Today, we all see the effects of these climate changes in time, in floods, in droughts, but also in our health. I remember that today is the World Environment Day, with a particular feature: it is dedicated to the issue of air and to improving the quality of life. I also welcome the Government today to be in the Pampilhosa da Serra, to make a protocol with many of the authorities, precisely on this subject, addressing a problem that is a challenge for all of us, the issue of fires, which we know is a reality and which the government is attacking, implementing various measures. Therefore, Mr Minister, in view of the sensitivity of people, of the requirement that people today have to deal with this matter, and the Secretary-General of the United Nations himself brought the debate on air quality — 90 % of the global population breathes polluted air — this is a challenge that cannot leave us alone. Now, this makes us all reflect on being responsible and we find solutions, applying taxes to those responsible for pollution and not to people in general. This is the challenge of the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u124	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u125	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, there is a misunderstanding that cannot happen here: it seems that the fault of the degradation of public transport, particularly the Transtex and the Soflusa, is the users or the PART, and they do not deserve this injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u127	And this for a very simple reason: Mr. Minister, I confronted him with statements made in 2017 and 2018 in which Mr. Minister announced the reinforcement of the fleet of Soflusa and Transtejo, announced reinforcements of circulating material at the CP and, therefore, already there were increases in demand and difficulties in transport. The problem is that the government may have some way to win votes, but it is completely ineffective to govern. [[Protests by Mr André Pinotes Batista.]] And why would I say that? Does the former Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins, know who he is? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u128	I thought it was the one who sold the boat! Sérgio Monteiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u129	No, then there's another one that took the country to bankruptcy, but that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u130	I thought it was Sergio Monteiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u131	Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins said that there is a wrong idea that there are not enough trains and that passengers are losing quality in the services. Now, it is precisely this lack of vision and responsibility that has led us to today, in addition to looking at the CP and the infrastructure of Portugal as a whole and seeing that they were the most captivated. You have lived in captivity by Mário Centeno and that is why the Directorate-General for Budget is still alerting today that, for the railway, there are more captivations of the order of EUR 53, 2 million. That's the problem! It is clear that the PART and the increase in demand have brought a new difficulty, but who should predict? Who should guard? Who should find solutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u132	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u133	So when I ask here, in a very simple way, what is planned for the Cascais Line, in terms of new circulating material, Mr. Minister answers 50 million but without telling me what it is. It is that he knows that it is not for circulating material, and this when we are in line with the oldest circulating material of the entire rail network. In Sintra, 175 trains are lost and, when I ask what is the new rolling material that will emerge, the Minister does not even say anything, because he knows that the order of trains has been made late. Since you arrived at the government, you knew that there were difficulties and the need for rolling stock, so someone has to explain why it is only now that the rolling stock contest has been launched, which obviously takes time to build and to arrive. Why just now? Because you work for the vote and don't work to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u135	That's why today we also don't know how we're going to solve the Sintra Line problem. What's the circulating material that's coming? It will not reach any because the order of trains is essentially for the regional service. For urban, suburban and long competition there is no acquisition of rolling stock. That is why you should perhaps apologize, but saying, "We have misjudged". And, in this respect, I must say that the current Minister is more sensible, because he said: "We had more eyes than a belly. We have misdesigned, prevented bad, we have not been able to anticipate problems, we have not been able to predict that this would happen», ending with an apology. But this is called bad governance, it is called incapacity and it is called another more serious thing: lack of respect for users of the southern margin, Setúbal, Barreiro, who want to come to work and cannot, lack of respect for users of Sintra, but lack of respect throughout the country, for all those who need public services and transport. You knew, because you look at the complaints verify that in 2018 they went up—2500 complaints—and there was no PART. I mean, what was missing for the government to realize that it had to act? What was missing for the government to realize he had to act? The former government may not have done everything well, but the former government inherited a disastrous situation of 14 billion indebtedness in the business sector of the State of transport, tried to correct this at the request of the troika, at the request of whom it financed the country and left, at cruise speed...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u136	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u137	I'm done now, Mr. President. Everything else, the Socialist Party knew, I knew, it was enough to have planned, it was only wise to rule, it was enough to fulfill its mission and its promises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u138	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u139	...now with the support of the Bloc, the CFP and the Greens, who come here today to make this number, for today we are in a much better situation than that in which we were at the beginning. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u140	For the last intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this last speech of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot but underline what has happened in this debate. I must say that, having listened carefully to all the speeches, the idea that was left among all the Members, I think, was that almost all the parties used this debate as a kind of slut horse, not to talk about climate change, but to talk about transport. We have already had a lot of debates on transport and tomorrow, in the 15th year debate, we will also talk about transport. [[PSD protests.]] But I understand why the parliamentary groups have fled to the debate on climate change and the impact that transport can have on climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Even Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has reassessed and did not want to talk about climate change. [[Greens and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating the conditions so that Mr Carlos Pereira can continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u143	Noise is also pollution!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u144	Please continue, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. We all know that, in order to reduce 50 % of emissions, it is necessary to ensure that one third of the mobility is electric and that is above all what we were discussing here. We know that in the past, there were those who, by the pressure of the search, wanted to solve something immediately, bought buses in second hand and diesel, but that is not what we are discussing. We want to ensure that what Mr Minister has already said and is indeed an ambitious challenge that must call on us all, that is, a small country, which represents less than 2% of the population, is able to pose the challenge of ensuring carbon neutrality by 2050. Now, this is really essential, and this is what we expected to discuss in this Parliament and in this debate, but you have run away from this debate because it does not matter, because this is a new challenge, it is a responsible challenge and it is a challenge for the Socialist Party, obviously, to sponsor, and we will certainly achieve good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau recently made a mistake, saying that that was the last intervention. I myself assume the responsibility of having wanted to silence the Member of the Left Block Heitor de Sousa, to whom I give the floor for one last intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u147	Mr President, I accept your apology and thank you for your indifference. Mr Minister, I respect the fact that you have hearing problems, but I just wanted to tell you that it is better to separate what we want to hear from what we should not hear. It is better to listen to the people than to hear the barracks and, when I refer to the « barracks», I refer, above all, to the views of their alter ego, the Under-Secretary of State and Mobility, who, in a brilliant piece of communication, has given us a completely wrong idea of the model of democratic public transport we want to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u148	I have no idea what the alter ego is! You see on Google what's the alter ego? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u149	Mr Minister, he certainly noticed that, two months ago, the various people who were interviewed on television classified the measure of tariff reduction as « absolutely frightening », « formidable », « the best thing that could have happened », i.e., they melted in praise to the government about the measure. What really happens now, when Mr. Minister is to hear the people again, is exactly the opposite, because he will hear people complain about the overcrowding of vehicles, of vehicles that do not appear, of places that do not have, of the conditions of comfort that they have ceased to exist and of the chairs that Mr. Secretary of State and of Mobility wants to withdraw... [[Protests by the Minister of Environment and Energy Transition.]] ... to reduce the quality of transport supply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u150	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u151	Mr Minister, there is a very simple measure that will make it possible to do more and better with the means that exist. Do you know what it is? It is recruiting workers to increase the supply with the means that exist. Increase supply, increase careers, increase choice by people who use public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u152	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u153	Otherwise, it will be a failed act and it will be a tremendous disappointment this positive measure, which has all the conditions to run well, as long as there are means and space for people to be able to enter public transport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u154	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, two lies need to be clarified in which it repeatedly insists. The first has to do with reducing pass rates and positioning of the PSD. The PSD is and has always been in favour of the measure,... [[Rice from PS Members and members of the Government.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u156	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u157	... unlike the lie they persistently want to tell; the PSD only criticizes the form and model used, which are causing confusion. This should be admitted by this government! A repeated lie often does not become a truth and will never become! [[PS protests.]] PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro counterprotests. The second measure has to do with investment in urban transport. It should be remembered that, during the period of the troika, the country and the previous government received from the Socialist Government a critical and shameful situation in public transport, which had to be resolved, and was being resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u158	When the troika came out, you granted and privatized everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u159	The model adopted by this government is another and once again caused chaos. On the other hand, it is enough to see the transports all falling down. Mr Minister, there are six measures in the area of climate change, which are fundamental in the perspective of the PSD. First, on the reduction of electricity consumption spent on heating and cooling, what measures are being taken by the Government? Here we go! Electricity production in Portugal is estimated to be responsible for one quarter — 25 % — of carbon emissions. What does that mean, Minister? It means that there should be concrete measures in this area. What is there on the part of the government? The Effective House 2020 Programme, with a zero implementation rate. A measure that might even be nice, and could even be a good idea, does not exist. Second measure: investment in photovoltaic panels, particularly for families and public institutions. The investment shown by this government does not exist either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u160	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. Avoiding the car whenever possible—it is a PART measure, that we have already talked about here, but in view of the results, it is ineffective, because the main cities are stuck, and the smaller ones are also with very serious problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u162	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u163	On the reduction of consumption, what does this government do? Incentives consumption! It is a measure that clearly goes against the most effective environmental behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u164	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u165	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Another measure: the updating of public infrastructures in terms of energy efficiency, which has been a disaster in terms of results. Finally, living closer to the workplace was a fundamental measure that should be adopted. What's happening right now? We have cities with unbearable living standards, which are increasingly difficult to live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u166	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u167	What does the government do? You have no measures on this matter. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now enter the stage of closing the debate on this question, and I would therefore ask the services which adapt the time frame. [[Pause.]] For the closing intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say to Mr Carlos Pereira that we are talking about transport is about climate change. But if this is so difficult to understand, I suggest that, at least next time, read the order of work to understand exactly the subject of interpellation. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u170	Unfortunately, we are all well aware of the consequences of climate change, even because we are contemporary witnesses to these serious consequences. But we are also aware of the threat this phenomenon poses to mankind. Today, there is no doubt that climate change, associated with global warming, has led to changes in precipitation patterns, increased water levels and increased frequency of extreme climate phenomena. Since the threat is global, the answer must also, of course, be global. But in the part that affects us, as a country, it is absolutely imperative to review the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, to bet decided and seriously on renewable energies and to change the paradigm with regard to transport policy, investing seriously in public transport and, above all, on rail, in order to provide the country with a mobility policy capable of transforming public transport into a real alternative to the use of private car. While we do not want to devalue the set of steps taken in recent times, particularly in the area of social passes, the fact is that there is still a lot to be done. There is much to be done not only at the level of investment now on the supply side, to respond to the increase in demand for public transport covered by the passes, but also to a strong investment in rail. There is, therefore, much to be done, especially at transport level, which have the weight we all know in greenhouse gas emissions. For this reason, over the years, the Greens' proposals have been numerous to promote effective collective mobility policies, taking into account their broad and recognised environmental, social and economic benefits. in fact, the Greens have long said that Portugal needs a new transport paradigm, both at the passenger level and at the level of goods, a new paradigm focused on the railway component that responds to the mobility needs of populations and the transport of goods, particularly in the flow of local and regional production, and that promotes territorial cohesion and harmonious development of the country. Finally, but not least, a paradigm that gives a more efficient response to the global environmental challenges faced by Portugal and the planet and, of course, in the fight against climate change. These were also the assumptions that led The Greens to present in November 2015 a legislative initiative to recommend to the Government the development of a national railway plan or the various proposals under the State budget for investment in circulating material and for the strengthening of workers in both the EMEF and the CP. Also out there, with the populations, 'to pull' by trains and 'to pull' the government for trains has been a constant in the intervention and action of the Greens. The campaign entitled 'Trains to roll, Portugal to move', during which The Greens traveled more than half of the existing rail network, denouncing the most diverse problems, is an example. More: the last parliamentary days that The Greens promoted in Beja also had as their theme exactly the railway, namely the connections between Beja and Funcheira and between Beja and Évora. The postal campaign for the construction of the link branch of Portalegre station to the city and the walk through the reopening of the Corgo Line are some of the many actions of The Greens, which aim to force the government to look more at the railway and its needs. Indeed, after so many years of de-investment, a greater and faster effort is urgently needed and directed towards a planning strategy for the future. And we don't even talk about the lack of passengers for trains and public transport in general, because we all know there's no need for passengers, on the contrary. Therefore, the problem does not lie in the lack of passengers, the problem lies in the obsession with the deficit and the fear of the PS government in wanting to show itself as the well-behaved student of the European Union. Accounts made, we can say: certain accounts with Europe, but misaccounts with Portuguese, public transport and mobility of people; right accounts with Europe, but incorrect accounts in combating climate change, at least in terms of transport. And after the new and positive measures with regard to intermodal transit, which have boosted demand for public transport, it is now necessary for the government to turn to investment at the level of supply. If not, we are pushing people not only again to use individual transport, but also to discredit the strategy that is intended with the steps taken at the level of the passes and, still, to compromise the fight against climate change. In addition, it is very little responsible for boosting demand in public transport and maintaining the same supply in terms of quantity, comfort and security, which, even without this recent reinforcement of demand, was already on the brink of rupture. It is unwise to appeal to people for the use of public transport and then to close the tickets or close the door to tickets or remove the banks from trains and subway. If the Government considers that it solves the problem with applications for an apology or the replacement of seats sitting by seats or with the closure of tickets, it is because the government is at least not seeing the film properly. It's kind of like waiting for the train at the bus stop. from the Greens, we will continue to pay attention and commitment to continue to demand from the Government the need to halt the phenomenon of climate change and global warming, also through public transport, and this question is just one example, the opportunity of which, again, was demonstrated during the debate that we have just done. This debate, which the Greens have scheduled for today, was not by chance, but precisely because the World Environment Day is being signed today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u171	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, Mr. João Pedro Matos Fernandes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I started my first intervention in this House, alluding to mitigation, one of the two key words of the Paris Agreement. As I said then, it is time to speak of the other word: adaptation. The adaptation consists of our adjustment to the territory and its characteristics. The circumstances of the territory today are challenging and hence the urgent need for adaptation to which I am referring. First of all, the last four years have been the warmest of memories or records. Second: the global average temperature has already increased by more than 1°C compared to pre-industrial levels. Third: climate changes are visible worldwide, with the occurrence, increasingly frequent, of extreme climate events. That is why action, our action, must also be involved in adapting to climate change, in order to increase resilience and reduce vulnerabilities to climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In response to this need, we have developed the national action programme for adaptation to climate change, a document to be approved by the Council of Ministers. The programme identifies nine lines of action with concrete adaptation measures, which aim to respond to the main impacts and vulnerabilities identified in the national territory. This programme is therefore a reference for the approach to adaptation in sectoral planning and in the preparation of the financing instruments of the next multiannual financial framework between 2021 and 2027. As you know, the Commission proposal provides for at least 25 % of the budget to be devoted to climate action and this programme will thus be structural for the future definition of projects to be financed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much more than that, we promote the integration of adaptation to climate change as a factor in valuing the territory. We addressed it in the PNPOT (National Territorial Planning Policy Programme), setting out the main challenges for the territory and considering guidelines for the management of vulnerabilities and risks in the context of territorial planning. We extend the geographical scope of regional and local plans and strategies for adaptation to climate change. With the financial support of PO SEUR ( Operational Programme for Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), it was thus possible to guarantee the coverage of around 80 % of the territory and yesterday the presentation of the Algarve programme was made public. With these plans, we also promote a better knowledge of the vulnerabilities of the territory and foster the development of instruments for the management of associated risks. One of the parts of our territory with the most need for adaptation is the coastline, in fact, the most populated area in the country. Either because of the presence of most of the population and economic activities, or because of the vulnerability associated with the increase in the average seawater level, we must even act. Thus the XXI Coastal Action Plan was born, which includes risk exposure reduction actions and for which we plan to finance EUR 900 million by 2030. If we strengthen governance in this area, if we move to the ground with concrete projects, we also promote greater involvement of society and foster knowledge, research and innovation in adaptation. The Scientific Panel for Support of the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy (ENAAC), which has the participation of the most recognized national experts in various areas of knowledge in this area, was set up. We promote innovative initiatives, by defining the legal framework for the reuse of treated waste water, intended for uses compatible with the quality of such waste water, including water or urban and industrial uses, allowing to reduce the pressure on water resources in times of scarcity. But it is above all in the intervention in the territory that this Government has been working on, in concrete actions and focused on making the territory more resilient and adapted. under the SEUR PO, the measure « Promote adaptation to climate change and risk prevention and management », with an allocation of EUR 426 million, already enables the approval of EUR 501 million. in this context, 392 applications were approved, aimed at combating coastal erosion, i.e. 122 million euros of investment. Also the prevention of fill and floods, with 82 million euros, and the prevention and fight against forest fires, with more than 85 million euros, are very clear projects for adaptation of the territory to climate change. It is also with the support of the PO SEUR that a warning for demonstration projects is now open. Through the Environmental Fund, the implementation of climate change adaptation projects at local level was also supported, which aim to respond to the risks of fire, heat waves and floods. And, because this is a cooperative work, we have developed, together with the municipalities, four flagship projects for adaptation to climate change in the water resources area. in total, the initiatives supported by the Environmental Fund exceeded EUR 10 million. During this year, a new warning will be opened, for an additional EUR 1 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is even necessary to prepare our cities, our infrastructures, our agriculture and our territory for an increasingly challenging future, without alarming but with the courage and ambition needed to face the greatest and most urgent challenge of our civilization. This is the time to put on the ground concrete actions to respond to climate change, to give adequate answers to the challenges that arise, built on a preventive logic and not just an emergency response. It is also time to encourage the involvement of the various parties involved in the territory, the business sector and society. It is therefore essential to also bet on environmental education and awareness of climate change. I'm really convinced that's what our compatriots are asking us. This is the government's firm commitment and I am sure that the parties, with different views on the process, do not deviate from this objective. That is why it was indeed with great pleasure that on World Environment Day I could be in this House for a debate promoted by the Green Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-05.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we end our agenda today. Tomorrow, day 6, the plenary shall meet at 3 p.m. and shall be on the agenda of the fifteenth-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to continue in the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 38 minutes.]]
