ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Let us begin our agenda with the debate of Question No 27 / XIII / 4. a (BE) on climate emergency. To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Since the 1970s, alerts for climate change have been there. The oil crisis is the world's greatest source of conflict and has led to the devastation of peoples and has produced populations fleeing for survival. The European Union and most of the world's governments — and ours is unfortunately not an exception — have at least been involved in these wars. Powerful governments, like the United States of Trump, kneel before the interests of companies such as Exxon. The millions of profits of the oil economy, made at the expense of destruction and blood, have been stronger than human rights and the planet. If this reality does not come from now on, the size it has gained is colossal today. We're in an emergency situation. Today, we have more than 24 million climate refugees, three times as many as those fleeing the war. The current increase in temperature, over 1°C, over the pre-industrial period, has led to increasing environmental catastrophes. We're in an emergency situation. What we know of concrete measures so far are those that have continued to accelerate the growth of carbon emissions worldwide: nine out of ten hottest years are in the last two decades. The five hottest years that there are records in our history are the last five. I repeat: the hottest years in our history are the last five. We're in an emergency situation. Conflicts continue and thousands or even millions of species go extinct. We can talk about Katrina in the United States, and about cyclones and fillings in the Beira in Mozambique, or Indonesia, which prepares to change its capital from place to place because of the rise of the average sea level. Or the Fiji Islands, where the UN Secretary-General yesterday reaffirmed that this threat undermines food security and health systems. We're in an emergency situation. We can also talk about our reality, right here in Portugal : severe drought, extreme heat waves, without precipitation, storms and full fires or the fires that ravages our territory. We can talk about the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which officially entered the hurricane route a week ago. There are no coincidences. We're in an emergency situation. If, in Portugal, hundreds have already died at the cost of these events, we speak worldwide in millions of vulnerable people. However, irresponsibility has never been so great. Donald Trump, the maximum example of contempt for humanity and for the future, denies climate change and gives gas to fossil fuels, a race for a cliff that condemns us all and all. In Brazil, Bolsonaro fulfills the orders of the agribusiness bench to clear the Amazon forest, smashing with the planet's lung. The situation is serious. We are surrounded by irresponsible and hallucinated leaders, just when we live in an emergency situation. Southern Europe is the region of the continent most exposed to climate change: we lack rain, maritime storms, full and fires. Portugal, despite being a small country, is not an exception or a separate territory, an isolated paradise from the global danger. In the Alqueva, intensive and superintensive agriculture, especially olive and almond, sucks and drains resources, in a totally unsustainable way. In the name of the rapid and short-term profit, the health of the population and ecosystems is compromised. The Battle and Pombal insists on oil and gas exploration holes as if the country's future could continue to pass through the past, as if we had not yet realized that the dead and destructive paradigm of fossil energies is to be overcome and not reproduced. On the other hand, the extractive interests of large multinationals have come to our country with the intention of taking up lithium without any rules, even if it is necessary to ignore populations, disregard protected areas and the sustainability of territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is not to close your eyes to all of this just because it gives us money right away. The models of the past do not serve the energy transition, and without the energy transition there is no future for anyone. We still pay the costs of mining that have linked us to so many wounds that we have not yet been able to heal, such as that of toxic deposits in the Pião Head, this is only to give an example. We continue, however, to insist on past mistakes and ignore this simple thing: we live in an emergency time. How can we continue to ignore warnings? To justify, with scruffed excuses or with economic arguments, interventions such as those in progress in Sado or Porto de Leixões? Don't we know the impact of the artificialization of the coastal shoreline? Don't we see how our coast goes down wide? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, climate and environment concern is not a sectoral policy. It goes through everything we do, it's about every decision we make. [[Congratulations from BE.]] How can we continue to have such contradictory policies? The Minister of the Environment proposes measures to reduce livestock production. at the same time, the Ministers of Agriculture and Economics initiate the production and export of thousands of pigs to China. The Minister for the Environment boasts that Portugal has no active extraction of hydrocarbons. at the same time, Minister Santos Silva negotiates with Trump, the most irresponsible of the planet, the increase in the import of gas from Fracking. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, there is a global movement that demands climate action, a call for warning that not only individual changes in behaviour, but a change of system, a total paradigm transformation in the mode of production and consumption; that calls for the end of an old and destructive capitalist economy, based on fossil fuels, plastics, programmed obsolescence and the disposable that causes natural disasters, mass migration, climate refugees, exacerbation of inequalities and an unprecedented degree of suffering on a global scale. In the face of this cry, no longer gives business the usual ones, no more gives to the «who goes out at the end that closes the door ». However, while young people strike climate and rebel against this smooth march towards disaster, governments around the world will have delivered the equivalent of 6.5% of world GDP in public money to oil and coal in 2017. Only the European Union will deliver 289 billion. As much as they say there is no money, the choices are simple: the money of all of us is being used to promote climate collapse. It is against this that we are and that is also why we need to declare the climate emergency. [[Congratulations from BE.]] No, it's not just a pretty cause. It is indeed a symbolic measure, to the exact extent that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is symbolic, or the Constitution is symbolic, or the Declaration of the Republic. The most important changes have always started with symbolic gestures and we propose that Parliament now recognise the seriousness of the situation so that it can act in consonance. We live a climate emergency. Some will say that it is not easy to change from day to night paradigm, that it is difficult to change the perspective, to counter investments, to promise economic growth. Perhaps those who think of these terms must learn to speak today's language, the universal language spoken by young people who warn us. They live a climate emergency time. Others will say that they are more interested in concrete and non-declarations such as this. For our part, we fight for each of the concrete, urgent measures and we value all that we have achieved. We have achieved approaches that will in fact lead to this government lowering emissions in 2019. We managed to maintain the collective transport of metropolitan areas in the public sphere. We have achieved a major reduction in social passes, a very important measure to combat climate change. Social mobilization has been able to stop all oil holes so far. And we continue to fight for many other concrete measures: there is a lack of investment to recover the 30% of railways that have been destroyed since Cavaco Silva's government. We need to move forward in order to make public transport free of charge. It is not possible to admit that we should have as a temporary limit for carbon neutrality in the year 2030. It is necessary to decide that the Sines and Pego power stations will not be able to remain beyond the next Legislation, incorporating this option in the REN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u3	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I would ask you to synthesize your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u4	I will finish, Mr. President. There is a lack of an integrated national energy and climate plan that sets out energy efficiency and efficiency and adequately frames electrical production systems in communities, decentralisedly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u5	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u6	But urgency calls for, in addition to all concrete measures, a greater commitment than those. when declaring the climate emergency we are not merely accompanying other parliaments in the world that have done so, not even accompanying so many personalities who claim it. We are making a commitment to ourselves. We live a climate emergency time. I take it - it is not a vote in favour of the Left Block, it is a commitment to the possibility of the planet and humanity have a future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u7	At the opening stage, for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, João Pedro Matos Fernandes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Maria Manuel Rola — I cannot say otherwise — you have not read a line from the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality or a line from the National Energy and Climate Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I was at least aware that the Left Block will certainly not vote again in favour of the ISP discharge for fuels. Our goals, our proposals for combating climate change, are the most demanding in the world. I repeat: they are the most ambitious and demanding in the world. We have long said that climate change is not a problem of future generations, it is a problem of these generations, a problem of today, and because for a long time we have been aware of this our work has not begun now, with announcements of 'climate emergency'. Let's go somewhere. The United Kingdom and Ireland have recently declared the climate emergency. It was a symbolic step, but in those countries the next day, what happened? Have greenhouse gas emissions decreased? Has the amount of waste been reduced? Has the production of energy from renewable sources increased? No, none of that. Moreover, in these areas, the situation in these countries is much worse than ours : in 2016, CO2 per capita emissions in the United Kingdom are higher and in Ireland are twice as high as Portuguese; in 2030, the target of renewables compared to final energy consumption is 24 % in Ireland, while in Portugal it is 47 %; in both countries there are about three times as much waste per capita as in Portugal; the share of renewables in final energy consumption is one third of our country in these countries. The last four years—it is true— were the warmest of memories. Climate change is among the main causes of the accelerated decline in biodiversity. On a planet that will have 10 billion people, we will certainly have to think about creating the conditions to live within the limits of that same planet. In Portugal, we know well about the civil challenges posed by climate change. The devastating forest fires, the accelerated erosion of the coast and the emergence of hurricanes on the west coast of Europe remind us of how urgent action is every day. As Mr Prime Minister stressed here last Monday, it is essential to act, but to act accordingly it is necessary to establish a plan, and ours is very clear, demanding, ambitious and realistic. Since we assumed responsibility as a government and as a Ministry, we wanted to make our purposes clear. Our country is committed to carbon neutrality, i.e. the enormous reduction of emissions, having established the year 2050 as the date to achieve it. We were the first country in the world to make this commitment. For decarbonisation, we have created — by the way, still little read by some — the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality and the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (PNEC) 2030. Limiting global warming to 1, 5oC in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement requires unprecedented transformation of companies and urgent and deep emission reductions in all sectors of activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, achieving carbon neutrality in 2050 forces us to do a great deal. It obliges us to reduce emissions by over 85 % in relation to 2005 emissions, the recent year of emissions in Portugal, i.e. to pass emissions from 68 to 12 million tonnes of CO2 / year. This is a clear and demanding goal, but realistic, because, as it was revealed last week, in 2018 Portugal reduced emissions three times as much as the European average. That is, we have to step up what we already do, with a growing ambition. In 2050, 100 % of electricity should be renewable sources, urban transport 100 % clean, decarbonised buildings and the use of much more efficient energy. More clear and demanding goals, but also realistic, if we take into account that 25 % of the investment in the next Community funding cycle will be to combat climate change, a proposal which Portugal has joined and which unfortunately did not deserve the full agreement of the countries of the European Union. If, on the one hand, it is essential to reduce emissions from the different sectors of activity, on the other hand, it is essential to ensure a sustainable, productive and resilient forest that enhances its sewage capacity. Defending this type of forest is intrinsically related to the enhancement of the territory, the recognition of ecosystem services and the fight against desertification. More tasks with clear and demanding but quite realistic goals, when it comes to remembering that Portugal is, according to European NGOs (non-governmental environmental organisations), the second most committed European country to combating climate change—and as the first is Sweden, which has nuclear power, I do not take it as an example. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in line with the results of the IPCC Special Report on Global Heating of 1, 5°C, it is already the next decade that we will put greater effort on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Last week, the public consultation of the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030 began, which sets new goals in line with the neutrality paths defined in the Route. We will reduce our emissions by 50 %, that is, by a value greater than that which climate activists demanded a few days ago and which have now corrected by assuming ours, because our value was greater than theirs. It is thus set as a target to reach 80 % of renewables in electricity production in 2030, which implies a duplication of renewable production and the closure of coal plants until that date. There are clear dates for the closure of coal plants and, whoever reads the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, sees it quickly. It is the national electricity system and the mobility and transport sector that in this period will be able to make the greatest contribution to reducing emissions. When, a few weeks ago, I received the Portuguese students from the climate strike, one of the requirements I realized was the immediate closure of coal plants. But if we did it now, half of the country would be left in the dark, since the electro-producer system is still dependent on fossil fuels and the rapid transition we propose to ruin on the basis of the lack of popular support that is always necessary in democracy. We will be as fast in decommissioning the power stations as possible and as fast as possible we will be the greater the penetration of renewables. Currently, 75 % of the energy consumed in Portugal is imported. In 2030, this value will be reduced by 10 percentage points and, according to the roadmap, by 2050 will be below 20 %. It is a long journey, which involves several challenges, but which are reachable within 30 years. This transition needs investment. Reaching carbon neutrality implies, on average, an additional investment of EUR 2850 billion per year, compared with investment in scenarios without neutrality. This investment will mainly be of companies and families and as such must be done phased out, taking into account the sources of funding available and what will be the evolution of the economy itself. To achieve carbonic neutrality implies a paradigm shift, a behavior change and a new social dynamics. This one also needs time. To achieve neutrality is a commitment already made by the government, but which should be properly programmed in order to enhance its benefits and safeguard any possible impacts that may exist. Ensuring a fair and cohesive transition is fundamental to your success. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than words, action is needed — that is what this government has been doing. Climate action has been implemented in two distinct but complementary dimensions: adaptation to climate change, aiming to increase resilience and reduce vulnerabilities to climate change, and mitigation of climate change, which includes all efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. With regard to adaptation, we started a more focused cycle of action by developing the National Action Programme for Climate Change Adaptation (P-3AC ), and around EUR 140 million is being invested in the adaptation of the coastline and around EUR 100 million in the rehabilitation of the hydrographic network. With regard to climate change mitigation, Portugal has shown itself to be the country of Europe — I have already said — which has further reduced its greenhouse gas emissions between 2017 and 2018: less 9 %. This number is absolutely strict, and those who say that this has to do with fewer fires in 2018 are wrong in a round way, because these numbers look exclusively at the emissions they had to do with the use of energy. It is therefore a real reduction of 9 % in one year. In other words, the wager in the decarbonisation of the economy has been a cross-cutting objective for this government. In this context, it should be noted that the phased elimination of ISP's tax exemptions and the rate of carbon in the production of electricity from coal — that is, one of the main reasons for reducing emissions — enables other sources to be given less polluting and to end the perverse support that still exists, is a fact, and that this government was the first to fight and reduce energy production from polluting sources. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our future is demanding, but our recent past has not been less. That the dimension of our task does not prevent us from doing what is necessary. We've shown that we've made it. We've already shown that we're well placed to make it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u9	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, to whom the honourable Member will answer together, as the Bureau has informed. To that end, Mr Luís Vilhena of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u10	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, in December last year in Katowice, at COP24 ( 24th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Climate Change ), I had the pleasure of attending the proclamation of Antonio Guterres, which made a strong appeal to the world to move from a state of emergency to a state of emergency, stressing that the world is not worth "to cover the sun with the cliff", because it cannot pretend or self-convincing that the problems are solved by itself. We agree that we need to act. And that is what Portugal has done — did it even before the United Nations Secretary-General's warning. It was also in Katowice that I attended the presentation by the Minister of the Environment of the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality (RNC ), a document considered exemplary and applauded by other countries, praised by environmental NGOs and recognized by the media. But Portugal has done more. It has done more with regard to alternative energies, mobility, electric transport, as well as it will do with regard to the forest and should also do with regard to agriculture and animal production. Therefore, Mrs Deputy asked whether, in a country such as Portugal, with a very positive performance in combating climate change, with a collective awareness of the negative effects these changes have and with very well-defined strategies to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, always with a view to making as soon as possible the word 'emergency' here cited is right to be,... [[Here, here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u11	... in a world context where there are far fewer countries committed to these issues and with a planetary impact far greater than Portugal. I ask you this because an emergency state should require such drastic measures that it will also call into question other factors that are equally important for sustainable development. And because we are talking about Portugal and not about the planet, because we are talking about the emergency with which Portugal must commit itself, using the word 'emergency' does not seem exactly appropriate, because if we use the words in vain, we run the risk that they do not have their real value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u12	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u13	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, at the initiative of the Left Block, we are today called on to discuss the issue of climate emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u14	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u15	The first question that arises, Mrs Deputies, is what the exact scope of this expression is, what its meaning is and what its amplitude is. We know — that has already been mentioned today in the speech of the Minister — that the British Parliament has adopted a declaration of climate emergency and that this same path has been followed by the Irish Parliament. But we all also know that, in both cases, these declarations take on a purely symbolic nature, they have no binding, tax, compulsory effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u16	It's to "open the tab"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u17	In the specific case of the British Parliament, that declaration of climate emergency only applies to the recognition of the need to strengthen the fight against climate change and pollution. In her speech, the honourable Member was very clear in stating that the declaration of the climate emergency advocated by the Block on the Left has a purely symbolic nature. But soon thereafter, the honourable Member added something that left us a bit confused: she said that « it is purely symbolic nature», but then added that « it does not confuse itself with the declarations of climate emergency adopted by other parliaments». So, Mrs. Deputy, we were left in doubt. After all, does it or does it not have merely symbolic nature? Does the declaration of climate emergency advocated by the Left Block have any binding effect or, on the contrary, advocates something more intrusive in the rights, freedoms and guarantees and has an exceptional nature, limited in time, which naturally implies the assumption of a set of obligations by the State? So what are we talking about? What distinguishes this declaration of climate emergency, which is advocated and defended today in this Parliament by the Left Block, from those which have been defended by other parliaments, in particular by the British Parliament and the Irish Parliament? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u18	In reply, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Luís Vilhena and João Paulo Oliveira, thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr Luís Vilhena, in fact, António Guterres has been one of the main figures to raise the issues of the political struggle and the reduction that he has been monitoring of the political fight against climate change. In fact, more is required in Portugal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. What we are discussing here today is not our « planted-seafront yard», but, as I was able to say in my speech, the direction that climate chaos is taking worldwide. In reply to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I would say that this statement is indeed symbolic. But it is not only symbolic, it has a symbolic importance that strengthens political combat and reinforces the political proposals that we will have and will be able to have here and that the government itself can also strengthen, as we propose in our intervention and in our project. The international impact of this declaration on Portugal will indeed be significant. It will not only have impacts in Portugal, it will have impacts at international level, and we, being at the forefront of climate action and intervention, must take this initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u20	The Bureau recorded 15 entries for requests for clarification to the Minister, who has already informed that he would respond first to a set of seven requests and then to the remaining eight requests for clarification. To begin the first group of requests for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u21	Mr President, Minister, in fact, in 2018, emissions decreased by 9 %, but what Mr Minister omitted from this accounting is that in 2017, emissions had risen by 28 %, representing the fifth largest increase in the European Union, thanks to fires and the lack of rain: fires, because they did not allow the forest to be submerged; the lack of rain, because it implied that Sines and Pego had more electricity production.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u23	It's a complete mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u24	Coal, Minister! Coal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u25	In fact, there are several ways to read the numbers, but I repeat that in this case we do not discuss our garden at the seaside planted. What we are discussing today is the road to chaos, a route that is visible and exponential worldwide. But we also discuss the paradigm on this route, as well as the paradigm behind the Portuguese Government's PNEC. I am not the one who says it, but the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (CNADS), which says that this «PNEC seems to believe that it is possible to continue exploring natural resources at the pace of (...) unlimited growth of the economy and demand for energy and other services. It is, after all, the current model of society that will have to be scrutinized." Mr Minister, does it not seem to you that it is time for Portugal to declare climate emergency and to have more sharp measures to counter this paradigm that the CNADS has shown in relation to the plans that the Portuguese Government has to combat climate change? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u26	To request clarification, Mr Santinho Pacheco, of the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, climate change is no longer a topic of scientific fiction, with special effects, in the distant future. The interest expressed by the theme this year in the Youth Parliament, with the theme « Climate Change — Reverting global warming », is responsible for us, and very much! We are under the scrutiny of the new generations. Potentially, there are many Greta Thunberg in Portuguese schools. Climate change is one of the main challenges that humanity faces and is a path to a set of environmental, social and economic disruptions. Dry, full, storms, lack of resources affect the most vulnerable populations, expand poverty and spread the disease. In Portugal, we are doing our part. The government has not failed in its plans. It is internationally recognized that Portugal is the second most committed country in the fight against climate change and we are precisely considered the champions of renewable energy. It does not matter to verbalize and yell slogans, the important thing is to do things, but to do them well. To demonstrate this boldness in response to the climate emergency, at the last European Council Portugal joined seven other states, proposing to allocate 25 % of the Community funds to climate change policies. Mr Minister, decarbonizing is not expenditure, it involves a lot of investment, and we know how important investment is to the economy. Discarbonize, for yourself, takes us somewhere, Minister? That's the question I leave you with. What is the point of discontinuing if we are not able to integrate policies such as the circular economy or the exploitation of the territory? Mr Minister, in the environment there are no moral or partial victories, it is the « slaughter», it is everything or nothing. Don't you agree, Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u28	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Angela Moreira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u29	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize the transcendence of this matter, but passing the burden of combating environmental problems to citizens, individually, thus apologizing the real leaders, is not the effective solution to the problem. As long as we insist on a market approach to climate and environmental issues, for example through the carbon market, we will not be able to contribute to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The carbon market translates into the purchase and sale of the right to pollute, it translates into the implementation of mechanisms that aim to market and finance the environment. Recently, it was cheaper to acquire carbon licences than to invest in technologies to reduce emissions to the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u31	Mr Minister, reality has already shown that the carbon market is ineffective and perverse. So I ask: why insist on a mechanism that treats the environment as a business and as another means of profit? The serious environmental problems resulting from the current production model are not solved by the declaration of the state of climate emergency, the purpose of which is to justify the implementation of speculative financial mechanisms, such as the carbon market, the taxation of individual behaviours or the promotion of consumption and green markets. As the CFP proposed in 2016, through a legislative initiative it is necessary to adopt measures to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, with the promotion of energy alternatives in the public domain; promote local production, contrary to the liberalisation of world trade; reduce emissions with a specific policy, and not with the allocation of marketable licences that enhance speculation and do not solve the problem; combat the pressure on water marketing and the deresponsibility of the State to defend nature and the environment. Don't you agree, Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u32	It is the time of Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD parliamentary group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u33	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, data from the last report of Portugal 2020, point out that POSEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), one of the main tools that the Government can use to solve problems, particularly with regard to climate change, has an implementation of 22 %. And the operational programmes, another key instrument, have, among all, an execution between 19 % and 23 %. Mr Minister, the level of implementation on this particular area is a disaster when we have enough funding lost to 85 %. Mr Minister, what is really due to this terrible execution on the part of the Government? In this regard, I would like to remind the Minister who has passed the years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and who is in mid 2019. What is the excuse for such weak implementation of Community funds? What is the excuse for the Minister and the government bringing us in on this matter? It is no longer the previous government, Minister! It's putting an end to the legislature! On the areas in which it directly affects the execution of these funds by your Ministry, then the disaster is even greater, Mr. Minister. What, then, is your apology today? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u34	Mr Álvaro Castello-White, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u35	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, climate change and its consequences have, fortunately, come to occupy a central place in the concerns of societies worldwide. In fact, this is a problem and a challenge that must be taken over globally and fought by all. We all know and are all aware of the urgency of the global implementation of measures to combat climate change. However, in addition to this universal design, each country should be able to fulfil its share in the actions to be taken. The former Government, PSD / CDS, has developed and implemented a set of measures and strategies that have led to the international recognition of Portugal's leadership in terms of green growth and the fight against climate change, which we believe the current Government has failed to maintain. Mr. Minister is looking at me with a very surprising air, but I'm going to explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u36	Look out!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u37	According to several studies and experts, the countries of southern Europe, Mediterranean countries, and Portugal in particular, have a higher risk of desertification, the fruit of more frequent and prolonged droughts. The climate change and the need for adaptation and mitigation are therefore to be looked at by Portugal as a priority, because the impact of these changes is already felt and everything indicates that it will be even stronger and more intense in the coming years, in the next decade. So in Portugal, for example, water is and will be a resource to which we will have to give full attention, regardless of measures to reduce carbon emissions. All indicators indicate that there are increasingly intense and short periods of precipitation, accompanied by longer periods of drought. Mr Minister, climate change poses new challenges to systems that are set up to protect citizens and ecosystems from threats that were less intense and frequent than those that now exist and that are expected to worsen. in this sense, it is necessary for Portugal to invest in scientific research, which invests in the qualification of human resources, which invests in the equipment of the civil protection forces and which invests in the formation of the populations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u38	The question I would like to put to you, Minister, is to know why, in the face of this very serious threat of climate change, the Portuguese Government has not invested in scientific research, favouring risk response programmes, has not invested in human resources qualification, through the formation of existing frameworks and agents, has not adequately invested in the equipment of the civil protection forces and because it does not invest in the formation of populations, promoting its training to deal with risk situations. The fact, Minister, is that the government has the speech, but it does not have the measures. In his speech, he said 'our work has not started now' and, later on, he repeated it, saying'more than words, action is needed, and this is what this government has been doing'. Yes, Minister, this is exactly what this government has not been doing! The Government has a speech, but it has no action, although let me tell you, Minister — to make it more restful — it is not only in the area of the environment, it is in almost all areas of governance. Mr Minister, this Government does nothing to enable Portugal to face the climate future with more responsibility and with more security, because it is concerned only with making correct speeches from a political and environmental point of view, but with almost no or even no action that will allow us all to face the future and this scourge with the total tranquility that we and the Portuguese deserve. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u39	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u40	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys, I would like to begin by saying that, more than for symbolic acts, what the Greens Ecological Party has contributed to is for concrete measures, which have concrete effect on the mitigation of climate change and also on a process of adaptation to these amendments. For example, in this legislature, we battled a lot with the government to change the law of the liberalization of the eucalyptus, the responsibility of the then Minister of Assumption Cristos,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u42	... in order to have a more resilient and forest-resistant forest, a drama that, as we know, also tends to worsen, especially in risk and vulnerability, due to the phenomenon of climate change, in a more dry time and with little humidity. at the railway level, we also made a great deal of effort with the government to plan intervention and investment, completely reverse the logic of the past, which was that of closing lines. It is true that the investment was not as far as the Greens advocated, but we believe that we have made a valuable contribution to taking important measures. Indeed, the objective of mitigation and adaptation to climate change is crucial. We have a lot of planning, a lot of reports, a lot of strategies on this matter, there is absolutely no doubt, but then, when it comes to some concrete measures, there are contradictions that end up being inexplicable in relation to the objective we have. We would like to have seen the Minister of the Environment, who is basically the face of this objective — the fight against climate change is a cross-cutting issue, adding the Minister a very great responsibility on this issue — in a more vehement way, to determine, for example, a dispute over the research and exploitation of oil and hydrocarbons off our coast. We would also like to see the Minister vehemently expand the intensive and superintensive olives and other intensive crops that are fattened by a highly vulnerable area, according to reports that exist on the impacts of climate change in Portugal, which is precisely the Alentejo. It is an option of culture with enormous water costs and, on the other hand, it also has very concrete consequences for the use of pesticides and therefore has a very direct impact. We would also like to have seen the Minister have another determination regarding the option of building certain dams, particularly in Tua, which is no longer of its time, and in Upper Thamega, with concrete impact on our coastline, which is also a vulnerable area that needs a process of adaptation to the phenomenon of climate change. We must contribute to strengthening and not to vulnerable, which is what these dams do with virtually no impact on national electro-production. Another issue I want to mention is transport. in this Parliament, we have worked to reduce the price of transport, and this is very important, but there is another component that we cannot forget, which is precisely that of the response of public transport to those who are the needs of the citizens. In this sense, Mr Minister, there are areas around Lisbon, for example, which have to collect from 8 hours of night, something completely unthinkable, and river transport to pass the Tejo remains an absolute disgrace, with concrete negative consequences for the population of the south bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u44	I will finish, Mr. President. There are areas in the interior of the country that do not, in fact, have a public transport response. That is why I need more investment in this answer. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that, apart from these contradictions, there is a very slow pace in resolving some fundamental issues, such as the National Plan for the Effective Use of Water, which is still very little met and which is also a very important issue in mitigating and combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u45	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u46	My question is this: how fast will the government adopt until the end of the legislature in order to fully comply with this programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u47	It is the time of Mr André Silva of the NAP for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u48	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, tell us the most recent data that greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, that our plans and actions are not sufficient to avoid exceeding the average increase in temperature by 1, 5o and that the contribution of the agricultural sector, one of the largest pollutants, is enormous and is increasing. Mr Minister, why do we need to stop pretending that animal production is not a problem, I leave you a very simple question: does he consider it sensible and responsible for the production of meat and milk to be benefited and stimulated by financial support from the State with the money from our taxes?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u49	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the questions that have been put to me. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, much more than symbolic was the statement in 2016 by Prime Minister Antonio Costa that Portugal was going to be neutral in carbon emissions in the year 2050. I find no symbolism greater than this, and let me tell you that I have not heard anyone, no party, nor the party of V.E.A., to follow with more or less noise this statement, which was absolutely pioneering in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u51	You're very distracted, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u52	In fact, it was much more than a symbolic statement, because what resulted from it was the construction of a script for carbon neutrality, which, by evaluating three different scenarios, found something of the greatest relevance. It is that the scenario that guarantees the most carbonic neutrality in 2050 is the one in which the economy grows the most. And I repeat that this is much more than symbolism, it is an effective ability to do and build neutrality. Madam Member, the two gentlemen sitting at my right hand, my government colleagues, were present at the meeting you referred to on the CNADS. What the CNADS says is summed up in this sentence: being absolutely fundamental to meeting the goals of the PNEC, it is indeed a huge challenge for the country and society. This is really the summary of what CNADS says. In fact, the reduction of emissions by 2030 is 45 % and 55 %. The demonstrators I received spoke of the reduction by 40 %. We commit ourselves, we show how if we get there and talk about a reduction between 45 % and 35 %, have an energy efficiency that improves by 35 % and has a incorporation of renewables throughout the energy of 47 %. These figures are, in fact, very ambitious but very realistic, if we can maintain, in the near future, that which was the result of the last year, in which there was an effective reduction of emissions of 9 % for the energy component, because there was a lower use of coal. However, Madam Member, there is no doubt that this lower use of coal has also been approved in this House, by means of a proposal from the Government, the end of the exemption of ISP ( oil product tax ). In fact, more than EUR 400 million of perverse subsidies — I say and I repeat — which are still allocated to energy production from energy sources that originate fossil fuel have begun to end with this government, which, with the parliamentary support it has, has put an end to this exemption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u53	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u54	Mr Santinho Pacheco, the fact that 25 % of the Community budget is devoted to combating climate change is in fact enormous and will even allow, as we have always said, the next three decades, obviously the most demanding and the one in which we have to bet the first decade more. But he asks, and very well, whether it would be possible to have a carbonic neutrality by betting on a single vector, i.e. in the decarbonization of society. It's not! We really need to move forward to a circular economy, because the notion of efficiency and material efficiency needs to be present in any environmental policy and also in what is linked to decarbonisation. Basically, the question that we can ask ourselves is this: when all electricity has as its source renewable sources, can we always leave the lamp on? The answer is no. It is, of course, not because we have no materials to be able to search the earth and produce all those devices necessary for the production of energy by renewable sources. So, yes, the idea of the circular economy is key, as well as that of the valuing of the territory, to ensure the summing capacity we need, the valuing of the territory to give value to the natural capital that Portugal has, the valuing of the territory as a component of the greatest relevance so that the transition is a fair transition. Mrs Moreira, if there is any conviction that I have is that the carbon market is really effective. I don't have the slightest doubt about it. The case of the end of the ISP exemption is evidence. Less electricity has been produced in Portugal with coal as its origin. And now, not only is the market as effective as we know that all the revenue — and not so — that comes from carbon rates has only one objective, that is, from decarbonisation. That is why we are investing, for example, in transport, what we are investing today. Mr Costa Silva, with regard to the three axes of POSEUR, the degree of commitment to expenditure with regard to adaptation to climate change is 85 %. The executive is not the government. The degree of commitment to the urban water cycle is 75 %. The degree of commitment to energy efficiency and the improvement of transport is lower, is 45 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u55	What about the execution, Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u56	I'm very happy to explain why. It's just that at the POSEUR we inherited VV. They had one concern — they had others, but they had one that stands out: it is that not one torson would be invested in the transport sector. It's written, there's no giving!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u57	I'm talking about execution!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u58	We found there the privatization of transport from Lisbon and Porto allowing buses in second hand and necessarily all diesel — this is written, we have no way to discuss this thing — so we really had to change course and reprogram the POSEUR. Mr Álvaro Castello-White, there are numerous investments being made in the field of adaptation. Let me tell you that I am not going to explain something that the CDS has not yet understood, or at least who most speaks for it has not yet understood, i.e. has not yet understood the concept of "adaptation". Adaptation does not mean the territory to adapt to us, we are adapting to the territory. in this perspective of adaptation, in the real, where it comes from the Paris Agreement, is evidence of what is being done. They see the EUR 100 million to be invested in the water network, the EUR 140 million to be invested on the coast and, in fact, in the Environmental Fund. All revenue from the Environmental Fund existed in the time of the VV government. Ex.. They were four different funds, cost EUR 4 million to manage and could not invest more than EUR 60 million. For this year it costs 1 million to manage and the investment we will be able to make is EUR 400 million. There is indeed a very significant change here. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I have no doubt as to how it is fundamental to better manage our forest. The Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality makes it clear that if we have to evolve from 8 megatonnes of CO2 of sewer capacity today to 10 million tons of CO2 in 2050, the burning area has to be reduced by half. And it has to be halved in a time when the planet will already be warmer. That is, if it is difficult today, from here to 20 years it will be more difficult and, therefore, we have such a big bet. Mrs. Member, is there going to be oil exploration on our coast? Don't! I'm sorry, but it's not the vehemence that solves the problems. The honourable Member would like to see me have a more vehement speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u59	No, no! More vehement action! It's different!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u60	What I can say is that, in fact, by stealing from this speech vehemently, you would like to have heard — I would have heard me make noise — what happened is that there will be no oil exploration on our coast and we will not have to pay any compensation. Madam Member, there were the young 'no', but you are the honourable Member 'no', because neither oil nor dams nor lithium... I do not see how we will be able...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u61	Look, the sun!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u62	I do not see how we will be able to reach where we want if we continue to add « children».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u63	The sun, the wind, the waves! Mr. Minister, have energy to think about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u64	With regard to what is happening and to the concern about the transports of Barreiro and Soflusa, there is a strike at extraordinary times and there is a strike at extraordinary times, it is normal that there is a disturbance. I am deeply sorry that this disturbance exists, but, of course, respect the right to strike. I tell you that even without the PART (Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme), according to the consolidated figures I have of the first three months, has grown by 6 % in demand for transport in this first quarter. And in Transtejo and Soflusa it grew much more than that: it grew 12%. 6 % is the aggregate number. Mr André Silva, I have no doubt that agriculture is the activities where adaptation has to be more evident. Therefore, from the moment that the European Union — although it has not yet stated it clearly, only at the level of the speech — will commit itself to carbon neutrality in 2050, it will have to take support options for any consistent and consistent production sector with this same objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u65	Pay for pollution! That's what you guys are doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u66	We move on to the second series of requests for clarification, which will be eight. To that end, Mr Fernando Manuel Barbosa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, transport contributes about 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. On average, collective transport has a mobility quota of just over 10 %, while in individual transport this quota is very close to 70 %. In view of the fact that the Government — in which Mr Exa is responsible for a key ministry, not only for the environment, but also, in this particular case, for the past which protects transport — has undertaken the commitment to meet the objectives of decarbonisation, since some measures of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction for the encouragement of the use of public transport are already in force, I would ask the Minister to follow up the Left Block on the need to increase investment in public transport, in human and material resources, so that the fair expectations of users, which have been created with the tariff reduction measures, are not undermined. It is that the news tells us of deleted trips, buses, buses and full boats, schedules that are not met, i.e., the offer is not enough for the search, which has increased every day. As you know, as far as public enterprises are concerned, yesterday the Lisbon Metropolitan Workers' Commission made it urgent for us to invest in human and material resources to support and respond to increasing demand. In the case of the Port Metro, where it is also necessary to give conditions to professionals to perform their work, I give you the example of the Santo Ovidio room, which little more than 2 m2 has, has no ventilation, has running water on the walls, and that is where the workers wait, exchange clothes and take meals. Also in CP, there is a need to make orders of more circulating material, because we know that it takes time between order and delivery and is not on any hypermarket or stand shelf, around the corner, that you can buy materials. Therefore, it is important to make advance order of the necessary material. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one more question: what measures do you intend to take in order to provide public transport with means that can mitigate existing deficiencies and prevent that in future, if you have a nearly broken public transport network again, what is the current situation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unbearable background noise. I ask the honourable Members to stand up and sit down or leave the Chamber. Let's move on. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, in a discussion such as the one we are having today on environmental challenges, we cannot fail to put transport and mobility issues on the table. Energy consumption with transport is the largest share of energy consumption, more than domestic consumption, more than industry, agriculture or any other economic activity. in this area, regardless of the technological innovations that may exist, it is crucial to take steps to move from an individual transport paradigm to a paradigm of collective transport as a structural means for mobility. Measures such as the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, achieved by the struggle of users and the persistent intervention of the PCP, result in a significant increase in mobility in collective transport, contributing to fewer cars in cities. It is this kind of action that needs to be done, more than rhetoric or measures based on punitive logic, in which the poorest are always the worst. However, Mr Minister, if we really want to bet on collective transport, we also need to provide more and better conditions for transport. There are problems, suppressions, lack of conditions in transport, the result of lack of human resources and investment, because the government insists on the accelerated reduction of the deficit, to meet the European Union's taxes, rather than investing in rolling stock, infrastructure and also in the hiring of staff. We have very recent examples of the consequences of these options: the 24 abolitions of trains, yesterday on the Sintra Line, an unacceptable situation, which stems from the problems of rolling material, or, through the Tejo, where tens of ships continue to be suppressed, which are the result of not labour conflicts, as Mr Minister said, but of the fact that staff admissions do not compensate for the departure of workers. My question is very simple and direct, Minister: if the Government says it is committed to promoting public transport, why is it preventing the hiring of workers? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u70	And to what extent is it going to allow public transport to arrive, to make the investments necessary to ensure quality transport? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u71	To request clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, it is known that buildings contribute about one third of all greenhouse gas emissions. In line with the objective of reducing this indicator, the Government, at the beginning of 2016, announced the Casa Efficient 2020 Programme, which aimed to provide loans under favourable conditions to promote the improvement of the environmental performance of buildings, in particular in terms of energy and water efficiency and urban waste management. After almost four years, the programme has a much less than 1 % implementation. In other words, the government announced the program in 2016 as its own, but it was not, because it did not put 1 € there, neither the State Budget nor European funds. Two years later, the Government defined its financing exclusively through private funds, the Portuguese banks, with the intermediary of the European Investment Bank, at rates of 13, 5 %, and which become higher than the normal market rates for multi-function personal credit. We are already in 2019, on the way to the end of the Legislature, and what we see is that the Programme, apart from being a fiasco, is a achievement because it actually did not have practical implementation. It was four years lost! Mr Minister, I have had the opportunity to deal with this situation four months ago in committee, and I do so again now, in this debate, because it has all the property and because, as you said in your initial speech, « more than words, actions are necessary». If, in a programme as simple as the 'Efficacy House 2020', the government has been unable to move from theory to practice, I ask you: what does this time bring us? And I ask you, too, if we can believe that the government, which did not meet the "Efficient House 2020", will be able to achieve the goals set in the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality 2030 and in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2030. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u73	To request clarification, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u74	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, in his speech, said that the Left Block had not taken note of the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality. Mr. Minister, I must say that we took good note of the roadmap, until we studied it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u75	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u76	... and one of the things we have been studying has to do with the full priority given to rail transport, in the context of climate change policy and a more mobile transport priority. Looking at the pillar of this new transport policy, which all of us — and the Minister too, by the way — intend to apply in Portugal, and looking at the images that today arrive through the televisions, about the overcrowding of the rail transport to which we are, as a rule, in the country, we realize that there is something that does not work well here. In this regard, I should like to point out that the expectations that have been set up regarding the reduction of transport prices, particularly in rail transport in the metropolitan areas, have not been followed by the country outside, not only by public operators which guarantee rail transport, but also by road operators. The Minister accuses us of not paying attention to the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, but I must tell him that he is a little disillusioned about the resolutions which the Assembly of the Republic has adopted with the vote against the Socialist Party, it is true — with regard to public transport. In February 2019, a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic was adopted recommending that the Government adopt « measures guaranteeing the access of all public transport users to the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, in pendulum movements », in particular that pendulum movements are covered by the same tariff reduction throughout the journey, even if they cross more than an inter-municipal community or metropolitan area and regardless of the means or means of transport used are or are not managed by the inter-municipal community of origin. There is a significant share of public transport mobility that is not covered by the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in the same terms as mobility in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. Mr. Minister, on average, a family of three people who use public transport between inter-municipal communities or between an inter-municipal community and a metropolitan area pays three more times, if this pendulum movement is to travel to the center of the metropolitan area or the center of the metropolitan area to the place of residence. Therefore, there is inequality, injustice that needs to be corrected, and I ask you, Minister, what the Government has already done to pay attention to the resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u77	To request clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u78	Mr President, I welcome the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, there is one thing in which we all converge and which is neither political nor the flag of the Block: climate change and the planet are a concern of all of us, and it is good that this is clear to all. Having said that, in fact, Portugal is a particularly vulnerable country on the issue of climate change, particularly with regard to drought, which has greatly affected our agriculture, our farmers, our rural world. What have we seen before this? Some measures that are repeated year after year, always the same old measures for new realities, because we have a voice in the Minister and another voice in the Minister of Agriculture. It is appropriate to say that one thing doesn't hit the other, because, really, this is what we're going to see! We need new approaches to this issue of drought and mitigation measures. It is not the monitoring working group that solves the problem, Minister, because, as I said, this is not the time for words, is the time for actions that are expected by the Government to have sustainability of the territory, a productive and resilient forest and a farmland also productive, resilient and friendly of the environment. What do we have? Decreasing forest area. What do we have? Avulsive measures for drought and no background measures. Mr Minister, the question I want to leave you is very simple: in view of the drought situation and the climate changes that the country is experiencing, in addition to these usual measures, repeated time and time, year after year, what structural measures to mitigate this emerging situation bring to us the government, to safeguard our territory and our rural world, always forgotten by friends, or so-called friends, of the environment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u79	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State, Minister of Environment and Energy Transition, one of the ways in which we find it inevitable to, in fact, combat climate change and implement the energy transition is to finish or minimize the production of plastics. Not long ago, we had the opportunity to go further on this path, with a proposal from the Left Block, led by the Socialist Party, for the implementation of a system of deposit and return of recoverable tara packages, like, indeed, of what, for several years, has also happened in our country, with the use of glass. So we were talking about a real paradigm change, and not just a mitigation of the existing paradigm, and we were talking about blaming producers and not putting all the burden on the consumer, or user.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u82	The fact that this proposal has been rejected indicates a contradiction that the Government must clarify and that it urgently needs to resolve: on the one hand, the speech that we need to make the energy transition and that it is very concerned, too, with the production of plastic and its impact on the environment; on the other hand, the practice that leads to measures that do not attack the root of the problem, which keep the production of plastics, even if it is in a different way. Therefore, from our point of view, these are positions that are not compatible and the government must realize whether it wants to be part of the solution or to perpetuate the problem until it is too late. And, in fact, I put up to the question in another way: whether or not you want to take forward the maximum you left up there, in the rostrum, to move on to action and leave only the words aside. So, and considering also this case of packaging and plastic production, which urgently has to stop, will or will not the government declare the climate emergency and once listen to the appeals of a whole generation that rises for the salvation of the planet, at the risk of a month or a year from now it is too late? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u83	Now, in this kind of rotativism between the Left Block and the PSD, I once again give the floor to the PSD, Mr Maurício Marques, to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, you said here, in your initial speech, that more than words are necessary actions. In fact, that has already been mentioned by my colleagues. I would like to note that, with regard to water, an additional matter of concern in this area, the actions being developed in the chapter of the system at high level are not beneficial, on the contrary, we know that in the last three years the autonomy of the multi-municipal systems has been seriously impaired. We know that there are some investments that cannot be made without the permission of the guardianship, which is creating some bottleneck in the necessary investment. But I would like to remind you that, also in the low system - and you will have the opportunity to refer to this matter - inactions are more than many. We are in a country where losses in the low system are more than 50 %. If we consider all those that actually exist, the losses are more than 50 %. Now, in the current context, in the situation in which we live, it is not possible to live together and do nothing to interrupt what is happening. I know what you're going to say to me, but eventually we can discuss this. What I want to tell you is that there are small interventions that municipalities themselves could do, but they are prevented. They are being forced to go to systems, to add, and they will not be able to put an end to this calamity. Mr Minister, I know that I am bothering you with this speech, but you will then have the opportunity to clarify what you are doing or not doing to address this concern, which is also from the municipalities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u85	To end this second round of questions to Mr Minister, we return to the Left Block. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u86	Mr President, Minister, I cannot but begin this intervention, boasting...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u87	Mrs. Member, right now, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the background noise in the Chamber is absolutely unbearable! [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u88	Thank you for your care, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I cannot begin this speech without congratulating the approach of the CDS and the PSD to the need to combat climate change. The CDS said here today that it does not see any change in the policy to combat climate change and is curious about this intervention when in fact it was the previous government, particularly the Minister for Assumption Cristas, who liberalized the eucalyptus and also asked it to rain to solve the problem of drought in Portugal. I prayed, even!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u89	It is better to have faith and do than to have faith and do nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u90	But Mr Minister, taking up the opinion of the CNADS (National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development) says that measures in Portugal are demanding, but it also says that they can go further. And we managed to understand this well on the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality, which only commits to the closure of the two power stations in 2030, that is, 13 years later, in the case of Sines, and with 9 years of delay, in the case of Pego. By 2030 these two plants will either issue, or may issue, if they maintain the 2017 levels, 100 million tonnes of CO2 and will produce more than 200 million tons of carbon, in addition to the forecast of contracts. in this same Route, the production and decentralized consumption of solar renewable energy become priority only after 2030. And, as the PNEC, which defines this agenda, it is clearly lacking in realisation, which should be the priority energy policy for the closure of these two plants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u92	Mr Minister, I ask you: why does this not make this action a priority before 2030 and commit itself to the closure of Sines and Pego until the end of the next Parliament? And why does natural gas prioritize, to the detriment of solar renewable energy, at this very moment? I would also like to ask about the caudals coming from Spain. The Albufeira Convention is clearly outdated and the Tejo is an example, but it is not the only one. The tails are not completed and millions of cubic hectometers are transported or transported artificially from the river Tejo to the river Segura, in Spain. This water theft cannot indeed continue. We have a problem, not only on the Tejo, but also on the Douro, but it cannot go on. How is Mr. Minister going to get rid of this theft that affects us so much? How can we get more water from Spain to Portugal right now, in order to cope with water availability and environmental pollution problems in the river Tejo? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u93	To respond to this set of eight requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council for the Environment and Energy Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I understand that the parties, not the Socialist Party, have difficulty in having this debate, because it is indeed difficult to point out to the Portuguese Government inaction in this matter, it is impossible to find a better example outside Portugal, and I realize that all parties, not the Socialist Party, have, above all, the need for an exercise of atonement, which is to have proposed the reduction of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) on fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u95	It was the government who invented this measure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u96	That is why this is a difficult discussion for all of you, and it is not at all a difficult discussion for us. Mr Fernando Barbosa, it is not because someone is saying that there is no material that happens, because to lack materials has to be the empty shelf. It is not enough to say "ah, there are no materials! Not at all! By the way, look, maybe, I had to go over there and confirm the stocks... Mr Deputies, an investment is being made, if we include the PART, of EUR 1000 million in transport in this country, between the 709 high-environmental buses, the expansion of the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto, the acquisition of 14 triple units to the metro of Lisbon, of 18 buses to the metro of Porto and of 10 ships to the Transtejo. That is why this is indeed an unprecedented investment. And, in order to have an idea of what has been the increase in supply, only in the Lisbon metro, in the first quarter of this year, compared to last year, the supply increased by 14, 2 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u97	And how much did the demand increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u98	...because the more than 30 triple units were stopped and right now it's capable of being one or the other. But that's what we're talking about. Mr Duarte Alves, there is a strike at extraordinary hours in the Soflusa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u99	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u100	No, sorry, don't say there isn't, because there is! There's even a strike warning and there's a strike at extraordinary times! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] Now, when there is a strike at extraordinary hours, it is normal that the service deteriorates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u101	Does normal service take place in extraordinary hours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u102	We regret that, but in fact, there is a strike at extraordinary times! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u103	Does normal service take place in extraordinary hours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u104	Well, there it is! Ask who declared the same strike. There's a strike at extraordinary hours and so it's very normal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u105	Does normal service take place in extraordinary hours? Oh, my God! Explain that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u106	...that the service degrades. We are doing everything to ensure that the reasons for this same strike, whose legitimacy, under no circumstances, we will question, will cease to be in the nearest time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u107	That's the PSD speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u108	Mrs Berta Cabral, Portugal will meet the targets for energy efficiency, which are 20 % by 2020 and much more demanding by 2030. The investments in energy efficiency are several and go through the EUR 100 million of the FITC ( Innovation Fund, Technology and Circular Economy) to industry, through what is already the EUR 780 million of the IFRU ( Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalisation) — not everything, of course, in energy efficiency — is the EUR 223 million that has already been approved at the POSEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) for efficiency in the Public Administration. It is a fact that the number of the Efficient House Programme is a number that is far short of the initial ambition. Imagineing one of these questions, I asked for the numbers today, because, as you know, housing is no longer under our tutelage, and the value more than it has doubled, from November to today. And measures are being drawn up, which have already been presented here, in committee, by the guardians of this matter, to ensure that this programme will have the greatest success and accession in the future. But, Mrs Deputies, «it is not because of the death of an Andorina that ends in spring», nor because there is a very concrete programme that went less well. There is one thing I know: if there are no governments like the one who preceded us, we will even be able to meet neutrality in 2050! If throughout this period — and democracy lives! — there are many governments to consider whenever, for example, the buses in Lisbon and Porto have to be diesel, then, in fact, I cannot commit myself to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u109	It's not like that and you know very well that it's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u110	But, as Mrs Maria Manuel Rola said, welcome to the debate, the PSD and the CDS. Mr. Heitor de Sousa, I begin by telling you something that is very clear to me: local power is even one of the greatest achievements of April. And being the local power one of the greatest achievements of April, the ability of the authorities to manage the money of the PART was affected. Mr President, it is not the CP that decides to take the steps down! It is, in fact, in each intermunicipal community or between them and the metropolitan areas that make that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u111	It's Minister Mário Centeno!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u112	And this happened in some places and it didn't happen in others. It's true! It happened in some places and it didn't happen in others, because there were some inter-municipal communities—which don't depend on you, no matter how much it costs you—who made the decision to take the steps down in road transport and there were others who made the decision to do so in rail transport and others who did so together, in a total exercise of legitimacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u113	Don't put your head in the sand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u114	And, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, I have no doubt that, in fact, it is even the elect of those inter-municipal communities who know the territory better than you know, it is not only what you and I know. Therefore, I think it is very normal that they have made those decisions. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, on mitigation and drought, which there is no doubt that there is only one long-term measure for drought: to consume less water. In Portugal, which is located in the Mediterranean basin, the amount of water consumed is greater than that which falls naturally through the rain. So there is only one long-term measure and that is the measure that we have to take in all sectors, very specifically in agriculture, where, of course, we need to be much more efficient in the stream. Mrs Isabel Pires, if there is a country that, in fact, has a commitment to plastic, the reduction and, above all, the elimination of disposable plastic, is Portugal. That is why your question — not to take me to harm — is far from what is truly relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u115	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u116	It's a fact, Mrs. Member! We ended up using disposable plastic in Public Administration. The honourable Member will know many other examples, but she has not been able to give any. In addition, we will anticipate, in one year, the application of the plastics directive, achieving, with a year in advance, reduce, and much more, the use of disposable plastics in the country, closely accompanying all municipal initiatives. Mr Mauricio Marques, the aggregations were an exercise of freedom by the authorities. The number I'm going to give, perhaps, is not strict, I don't have a color, but I think 9 or 10 aggregate systems have been created. And, of these aggregated systems, only one — and this number is now rigorous — has the participation of the waters of Portugal. Just one! In all others, municipalities understood that they had to gain a scale in order to better manage their systems and, therefore, once again, is a municipal responsibility. But, of course, it is necessary to reduce the losses that exist in municipal pipelines, but at present without any purpose of aggregation that precedes it, to be assessed applications within the framework of POSEUR, whose amount of investment exceeds EUR 100 million, with the sole objective of reducing losses in pipelines. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, the closure of the power stations will only happen before the year 2030, but, in order for that to happen, it is absolutely essential that there is energy from renewable sources that can replace that which comes from the power stations. And those who have, over time, and continue to try to confuse people, saying that renewable energy is synonymous with excessive income do not do a good job here. Really! Really! [[BE's protests.]] We are therefore extremely committed to double the capacity of renewable energy production in Portugal over the next decade, which represents an investment of EUR 10 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u117	Thank you, Minister, also for the management you have made of the time you have available. We are now moving to the stage of intervention, so Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Gas emissions with greenhouse effect continue to increase and it is urgent to stop emissions to ensure that we achieve carbon neutrality in 2030 and that the global average temperature does not increase beyond 1, 5oC, above that extreme climate phenomena will be more unpredictable and intense. World oil consumption will hit the record of 100 million barrels daily in the third quarter of 2019. We will be nearing the point of non-return, with more and violent natural disasters, uncontrolled meteorology, fall in agricultural production, reduction in revenue, increase in poverty, migration to urban areas and to the regions of the global north and the huge increase in migratory pressure and conflicts. The NAP has already formalised two initiatives, where it proposes that the Government and Parliament declare the state of climate emergency in Portugal, a symbolic but strong commitment to point out this reality confirmed by science. Those who say that they are symbolic and non-binding measures remember that the Paris Agreement is symbolic and not binding. This declaration of climate emergency needs, of course, to be accompanied by a new plan and appropriate actions in the areas of energy production, industry, mobility, civil construction and the agri-food sector. Portugal must urgently adapt its economy, with a view to carbon neutrality by 2030, to anticipate the closure of the coal power plants in the next five years, maintain oil under the ground, set ambitious targets for the end of the circulation of fossil fuels powered cars, stop the expansion of eucalyptus and intensive olive oil, change our consumption patterns, reduce waste and increase recycling rates, reduce food waste, increase energy efficiency and take on time that is foolish and irresponsible we continue to subsidize, with the money of our taxes, the production of meat and milk, the world's largest pollutant and the sector that wastes more water in Portugal. The Minister of the Environment continues to refuse to answer the uncomfortable questions raised by the NAP as regards the irresponsibility and insensibility of financing the polluting livestock sector with public money. The government continues to pay for pollution. The CAP — Confederation of Farmers of Portugal sends and the Minister for the Environment obeys.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u119	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: Climate change is the great challenge of today and the greatest threat to life on planet Earth. The climate imbalance generated by human interference is too evident and requires a true behavioral revolution of human beings and modern society in habits, in daily action, in political choices and in legislation. Global warming, desertification of territories, food shortages, uncontrolled migration, coastal erosion and sea progress, floods and storms, fires of uncontrollable dimensions—we face an absolute urgency situation, in which each day counts, in which each option counts. A battle against time, within which we must all be available for the adaptation that is required. The last global climate change summit has, in its conclusions, endorsed the report of the Intergovernmental Panel, which clearly assumes the drama before us: we have only 12 years to avoid a point of non-return, irreparable losses in biodiversity, even more extreme droughts, full and heat waves, hunger, poverty and forced migration for many more millions. The world cries for action. The Portuguese, in particular the younger ones, are paying attention, today, in our galleries and, a little while ago, at our door, to manifest themselves, demanding changes and action within these walls, so that the world out there will also change for the better. [[PSD applause.]] Europe has played a leading role in this fight and Portugal, already in 2013, with a PSD-led government, has seen policies being implemented that have allowed it to assume relevance and to be internationally recognized as those who want to make the difference in climate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u122	This history, which has made it possible to achieve strong performance in the country's climate policy, which still persists today, is now threatened by insufficiency in the consistency of government policy options. The Government has an ambitious script on the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality, but there are too many things to go wrong: the miserable implementation of the Effective House Programme does not correspond to the announced concern about the environmental performance of buildings and energy efficiency; the importance attributed to reducing the country's energy dependence is not matched by a solid and coherent energy policy; the recurrent situations of severe or extreme drought do not find effective solutions or planning in government action;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u123	... the positive measures to encourage the use of collective public transport, so decisive for the reduction of emissions (e.g. social passes), are, unfortunately, accompanied by third-world service quality, lack of maintenance or acquisition of equipment and limitations in the response or number of places available. [[PSD applause.]] The availability of the European Union to support the efficient use of resources does not depend on very low executions and waste of funding.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u125	The Operational Programme for Sustainability in the Use of Resources — POSEUR — is implementing only 22 %, and even regional programmes have implementing rates ranging from 19 % to 23 %, which shows that it is not due to lack of financial resources at its disposal or because it has not been the government itself to reprogram the funds that it does not do anymore and better. And it is not worth disconcerting, as Mr Minister has tried, because execution is really weak. Having come to the government, the Socialist Party has slowed down, has often preferred to revert to progress, forgetting that government action should always walk in the same direction as the concerns promoted. Prefer advertising to performance, propaganda to action as a result, waste of funding to the implementation of funds can only bring bad results in the future. No Portuguese accepts to see Portugal damaged to other more developed countries, especially given that we are in the front row of the European countries that are and will be most affected by climate change. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition: It is urgent to prioritize these and other situations that affect our climate performance and our resilience to the many changes. The alerts are not too much and the priority assumption of this political agenda is fundamental! in this line, other countries even decreed the state of climate emergency. They made it symbolically, as a form of alert, and accompanying this determination with political options, assuming the change they intend to make happen. Today, we are also talking about this possibility, which has to be evaluated in the light of our legal order, or assumed, also in a symbolic way, for recognition of the urgency we face. With this or other designation which does not have the same legal implications associated, it will always be certain that this discussion is also another attempt to signal the urgency of action in this matter and a warning to the urgency of accelerating the step towards carbon neutrality, responsible use of resources and the preservation of biodiversity and the terrestrial environment. To legislate well, to make good use of fiscal policy, to make green public investment and to involve citizens and civil society in the strategy of sustainable development are decisive pillars for political powers to remain in the right direction. This is the responsibility we have before the Portuguese, today and tomorrow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u126	Mr João Marques of the Socialist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u127	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, did you see the roadmap document correctly?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u128	Vi!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u129	Do you live? Oh, my God! And did you see the National Energy and Climate Plan?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u130	Vi, vi!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u131	It is because of the statements you made in the gallery, it seems that you did not read the document, did not see the objectives, the goals, and did not realize that it was Portugal, with this government, that in 2016 made a commitment to carbon neutrality. It was also this government that took on the most demanding and ambitious objectives in this area, which lead to Portugal — which is at stake here on this issue of the climate emergency declaration — being the first country to assume neutrality as a compromise. Portugal is the second country most committed to climate change. I therefore welcome this debate because, as we know and have already mentioned, the concern of the PSD/CDS government and the troika, at the level of privatization of Carris and STCP (Sociedad de Transportes Coletivos do Porto, S.A. ) , besides accepting used cars, it was that they were diesel. Now, this says all about your concern about climate change. So, this is what we understand. Mr Deputy spoke here recently about 2013 and the measures that have been implemented by your Government and I would like to know what they were. I would like to give us a concrete measure that has a positive impact on the net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. That is what I would like you to tell us here, a concrete measure for reducing emissions, at the level of energy transition, of betting on renewable energy and increasing efficiency. I would also like to be told who defined the perspective of the future, who defined the strategy for the carbonic neutrality of Portugal. Mr President, the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality presents a long-term vision, in which carbon sequestration capacity is an essential condition for such neutrality to be achieved — which will be possible only with a clear bet on the exploitation of territories, in particular the interior, allowing the creation of resilient and sustainable forests — and also points out the importance of a circular economic model that is efficient and regenerative in the use of resources and that promotes the economy of sharing. I would like to ask you how the PSD relates the transition to carbon neutrality to the enhancement of the territory and to the circular economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u132	To reply, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for being frank, but there is a need for a different side to speak of the former government as if I had done nothing in this field!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u135	It filled the country with oil concessions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u136	In fact, I recall that your own government, in the Report on the State Budget, which you presented to this House a few months ago, mentioned and exalted the position of foundations, such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which at the time was disenchanting and saying that you had no value, but now you already say that we are good at environmental level, as you said in relation to our government. There is always this duality in the view that the Socialist Party has of things, because it always sees things in an enviessed way. It's too bad. In any case, I note that you did not have a single word about the concerns that we have mentioned here, you did not deny a single fact, you did not make a single repair to what has been said here. So I am not going to give you again a lesson on green growth, about what has already been done by the previous government, about what really enabled this government to have a launch ramp for the strategy it is defending today. Anyway, I am surprised every time I hear the Socialist Party talk about this, because it is totally irresponsible to deny the reality of the facts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u137	Again, we move on to the interventions. You have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change is not a theory of scientists and environmentalists today, its effects are already felt, causing devastation in various regions of the planet. They are not a theory of the present with effect in the future. Don't! It is a serious environmental crisis that is felt in our day and, therefore, political decision-makers are not enough to proclaim measures and intentions, but on the contrary, immediate practice is required. The countries of southern Europe will be the ones most exposed to this phenomenon and its effects will create more economic and social inequalities and, above all, inequalities between countries. on the contrary, the countries of northern Europe will benefit the most, with positive results, especially improving the conditions for agriculture and other economic activities. Portugal has already recorded losses of EUR 6, EUR 8 billion related to the consequences of climate change between 1980 and 2013, and only a small part was covered by insurance according to a report published by the European Environment Agency. Coastal erosion has already caused significant economic losses, ecological damage and social problems, particularly in Portugal, which has already invested millions of euros in the defence and rehabilitation of the Donor cord and the protection of the seafront. The next wave of large-scale migration will certainly be a consequence of climate change, motivated by erosion, desertification of territories and, above all, impoverishment of their communities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The planetary watch is becoming implacable in its march and the signs of it become increasingly impossible to ignore. The cycles of drought, of heat and cold waves, of floods and storms are much shorter and the escalation of negative impacts on health and economic development shows that we do not have much more opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u139	Mr Renato Sampaio, you don't mind interrupting him again to ask Mr Sampaio. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet and sit down! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, would you mind sitting down? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a little respect for who is in the use of the word would not be the worst idea! [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. The countries of southern Europe, we have no doubt, will be the most affected by rising seawater levels and their advance, conquering territories. It will be much faster than it is thought and changes in the economy will be enormous, affecting tourism and agriculture in particular, and even changing in marine species and even in the vineyard itself. But there is another dimension of the problem: freezing in the poles, with global warming, as well as mountain areas, which will no longer have ice, will affect mountain tourism. Desertification will be a reality, watercourses will dry up and water supply for human consumption will be compromised, jeopardizing public health and enabling the emergence of new diseases. The diagnosis is made, the shelves of the ministries are full of reports, studies and plans. Now it's urgent to act! Work with healing measures, but above all with preventive actions. It is in these two dimensions that the Government of the Socialist Party is committed to, and with positive results. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has been and will continue to be on the front line in combating climate change, and in Europe it has always put this issue on the political agenda, as happened in one of the last European Councils, where, together with more than seven countries, it has put forward a proposal for 25 % of the next Community funds to be affected by climate change. Portugal has been and will continue to be in line with the fight against climate change, as demonstrated by the reduction of emissions by 9 % compared with 3 % of the European average, when the growth of our economy was also above the European average, which shows that the reduction of emissions is not incompatible with the growth of the economy. Portugal has been and will continue to be on the front line in combating climate change, having been awarded by UNESCO ( the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) for being very forward in the production of energy from renewable sources and being seen by European NGOs (non-governmental organizations) as the second most committed European country in combating climate change. Do you need to do more? It is! Do we need to continue and accelerate this path? It is! And that is what the government is doing, for example: by building a strategy that leads us to carbon neutrality in 2050 and to the decarbonisation of the economy; by planning the end of electricity from coal, by betting on the production of energy from renewable sources; by supporting electric mobility and the circular economy; by undertaking the reorganization of forests and territories; by valuing the interior and its natural resources; by betting on the use of public transport, taking measures such as those of the new tariffs, with great social scope, which made the passes cheaper; and by implementing greater energy efficiency and efficiency in the use of water. This is the way of the future, the way we want to continue to travel and thus to ensure the sustainability of the planet and to increase the quality of life of the Portuguese. We are all committed to this path—it is true! — but there are some who are more committed than others. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u141	No one has signed up to ask Mr Renato Sampaio for clarification, so we move on to the next intervention. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party, to whom I remember that she has just over a minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u142	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u143	I'm making this notice, because I'm already used to it, Your Honor. [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, you can only solve problems if you can understand the origin of the problems. And with regard to river transport in the Tejo, Mr Minister is not wanting to understand what the problem is. If, for example, times increase, and well, to respond to the needs of the populations, but do not increase the number of human resources, i.e. no more workers, then everything falls to the ground. What does the Minister want? Do you want people to work 24 hours a day? Do you want a normal service done with extraordinary hours, including challenging the safety of users? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, it corresponds to those who are the needs and hire more people, because that is what has to be done! If you don't understand the origin of the problem, it's all wrong! Mr Minister, you are criticizing The Greens because you think we are that project that, at the level of energy production, you understand that 'no, no, no'. It's not true! Mr President, it is the one of the « one, only, alone» that seems to have a shovel that does not let you see anything else in relation to other solutions. [[PS protests.]] Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the conclusions of 14. the Convention of the Greens, under the motto « Ecological Action — A commitment to the future », and I have already underlined what Mr Minister should read as a matter of priority. The Greens solution, at energy level, is essentially the production of electricity, in a decentralized and local manner, of renewable base, for self-consumption, with a very strong and massive bet on photovoltaic solar,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u145	It's all in the PNEC!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u146	... with storage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u147	Storage is with lithium!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u148	... and also the use of organic waste for biogas generation, with a very strong, of course, bet on energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u149	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u150	It is that we have enormous potential for energy saving. But, Minister, there is much more in our conclusions than I do, but I do not have time to read everything and therefore I will personally hand you these conclusions, underlined. The Minister will not have any work to read, but he will fail to realize that this is not « alone, alone». There is a very great potential for intervention that does not go through the large economic groups to which the government, by the way, only wants to serve. [[At the moment, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia addressed the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition and handed her the conclusions of the 14th Greens Convention.]] [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u151	Lithium is needed for storage, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u152	We move on to the next intervention, which is the responsibility of the Portuguese Communist Party. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection and protection of nature and the environment are a battle of our time. Climate change is an expression of the evolution of the planet, which has always occurred, and at the same time, of human intervention, influenced by individual action and, above all, by the form of organization of society and by the criteria that command it. Atmospheric and water pollution, forest destruction, intensive agriculture are the result of the way of production, which imposes the use of natural resources in an unbalanced manner and without any relation to the satisfaction of the needs of the world population, which imposes overproduction and waste, excessive consumption and increasing transfer of costs to populations, penalizing mainly the layers of the poorest population. All this is admitted and imposed in the name of immediate profit and concentration of wealth. Colonial relations and the existence of armed conflicts by the field of natural resources, destroying countries and the lives of thousands of people, reveal the extent to which the exploitative momentum of capitalism goes. Based on fair and legitimate concern of the population, economic and financial groups saw an additional business opportunity on environmental issues. It is the capitalist system itself that creates alarmism around climate change, to take further the instruments of marketing and 'financing' of the environment, creating a problem and selling a false cure to get even more profits there. With regard to the existing environmental problems, there are those who seek to divert attention from what is central and encourage a conflict between generations, placing parents and grandparents against children and grandchildren, fleeing the structural causes of these problems, while the real ones responsible go through inconsistencies. We need to understand and we need to act! The declaration of climate emergency can be understood as alert, but can also be used as a justification for creating new rates and taxes, so-called green, which penalise individual behaviors of the poorest layers, or to accentuate the implementation of financial and speculative mechanisms, such as the carbon market, which make pollution a business of billions, in which it is cheaper to pollute than to invest in technology to reduce emissions to the atmosphere. Defending the environment and nature requires the courage to denounce the responsibilities of the capitalist system in the destruction of natural resources and the need to overcome them in order to ensure a balanced and healthy environment; it requires the adoption of measures to strengthen the means of the State to develop a true policy of defense of nature, putting the country's natural wealth at the service of the people and national development; it requires the development of energy alternatives in the public domain, the strengthening of investment in public transport — in the sense of its gratuitousness and extending its supply — to the detriment of individual transport; it requires investment in research and development, with a view to reducing dependence on fossil fuels and the defence of local production. While trying to disguise itself, capitalism is not green. In the gigantic media campaign around climate change, populations are held accountable, but the profits remain untouchable, leaving entirely behind the responsibility of the current mode of production and its unfair form of distribution of wealth. Capitalism is at the root of current environmental problems and this must be faced with courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u155	These problems will not find a response in financial and speculative instruments, nor in the deresponsibility of the State in the area of the environment, much less with the privatization of natural resources, such as water, or in the areas of energy. Yes, we are concerned about climate change and its consequences. Yes, we argue that action must be taken, that action must be taken, and urgent measures, which aim at protecting nature, environmental and ecological balance. All of this must be done by going to the bottom of the matter, without the alarm and panic with which fair positions and concerns are put in favour of a business in the name of the environment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u156	Mrs. Paula Santos, my congratulations, because you were right in full in the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u157	It's the rigour with which these things are treated!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u158	The rigor of the PCP, says Mr. João Oliveira?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u159	Exactly! We can't all boast about it, but Mrs Paula Santos can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u160	Commendation in the case itself is revenge, as you know, Mr. [[Laughing.]] You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u161	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CDS has been expressing concern about the effects of climate change, and it is not now. We know that Portugal will be the country of the European Union where the effects of climate change are most likely to be felt, particularly because of the worsening intensity of extreme climate effects, where the issue of water should, in our view, be the main concern that Portugal should have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Earth is our planet. It is on Earth that we live and there is no planet B, that is a reality. It is therefore necessary to think globally and act locally. But we know that air has no borders and the countries that contribute most to climate change are China, with 24 %, the United States with 13 %, and the European Union as a whole, in fact, former water with Latin America, with 9 %. What leads us to the obvious conclusion that, as far as we are concerned in Portugal or in the European Union, if the most polluted countries do not do their part too, we will not be able to achieve the objectives. Portugal is ahead of other countries in a wide range of factors and we must strive to do our best. But the area where we can be decisive at national level is adaptation to climate change. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u162	There are two sets of countries: those who are developing, who have to be helped, both at the level of technological knowledge and at the financial level, so that they can improve their environmental performance; and the developed countries, who have to have a greater commitment to their results and commitments. Earth is our planet. And it is the land that feeds us—not the shelves of supermarkets—so we have to take good care of it. And farmers are the guardians of their land, their environment and their biodiversity. 'Agriculture is one of the sectors particularly affected' — this phrase is from the Minister of the Environment. But what does the Minister do? Decides carbon neutrality plans for 2050, with high negative impacts on the agricultural sector, without consulting the protection, the Ministry of Agriculture. Worse, without asking for the collaboration and involvement of the guardianship and the sector in the calculations, which obviously leaves wrong assumptions and leads to wrong conclusions! The livestock is responsible for 83 % of greenhouse gas emissions within the agricultural sector. But the agricultural sector is only responsible for 10 % of total emissions. The livestock account for 8, 3 % of total emissions. However, it is understandable that other sectors, such as transport and energy — which represent a much greater share — also reduce much more! Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: On the way to a neutral carbon economy, it is natural and desirable that agriculture also make its contribution. And this can also be a promoter of innovation, in the development of less demanding crops in water; in the development of food for animals that cause lower emissions of gases; in the development of new water solutions, more localized and technological; in the development of better soil conservation practices, with less mobilization; in the development of better forest management that guarantees a greater sewer effect. But this path also goes, and above all, by much greater effort in reducing waste, increasing selective collection and recycling rates; by increasing the use of renewable energy, both for businesses and for families — Portugal is the country of Europe with more hours of sunshine! ; by investing in the adaptation of buildings to energy saving, not only of the central government, of the State, but also in the out-of-concentration and private ones, and, for this, incentives are needed, in which Community funds can and should have an essential role. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We can live an environmental emergency, but we also live a rural emergency! And that was evident both in the interventions today of the Bloc, the Greens Ecological Party and the PAN, and also in some policies that the government has been developing. In a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the more than EUR 400 million of the Environmental Fund is located, above all, in cities. They finance the social passes of Lisbon and Porto and leave a whole interior, which has few alternatives to public transport, with a huge increase in transport costs, as we have seen from the escalation of the price of fuels. in a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the government has forgotten the need to store water inside. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in a country where two-thirds of the territory is rural, where the risk of fire is enormous, the government abdicated, as soon as 2016, the purchase of two amphibious fire-fighting aircraft, whose eligibility in Community funds the previous government has been able to guarantee and that they gave us greater autonomy and sovereignty in the fight against those fires. in a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the Ministry of the Environment is secondary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development. in a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the government prepares an education reference for environmental sustainability for our children and young people, from preschool to high school — who are the adults of tomorrow — where it talks about the dangers they pose for soils, and I quote, "pesticides, monocultures and intensive crops", and promotes vertical gardens as an example of sustainable agriculture. In a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the government ignores, for example, the vineyard gold—which is no less than an intensive monoculture of vineyards classified as the heritage of humanity. in a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the government leaves the cities of the countryside, passing a rubber through all the work that farmers have done over the years, of technological innovation, of the development of sustainable practices, of the contribution to economic growth, at the most difficult times that the country has lived, and also in the environmental services they provide. In a country where two-thirds of the territory is rural, the government ignores all the interior that is not urban, which says it wants to value, but that it does not bring votes and therefore leaves it to its own fate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u163	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u164	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all do our part for this house, which is our planet Earth. In the CDS we say « present » throughout the country, not only to the city, but also to the countryside and rural territory. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u165	You now have the floor for an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The debate here today has demonstrated the unanimity and urgency of the need to act and intervene at national and international levels. This Government and the Socialist Party have only assumed that the climate emergency declaration would be to take the failures in execution. What I tell you, My Lords, is that we are not in any competition. It is not a championship that will take us somewhere and that will advance something in these logics, because, in this emergency, we can indeed be champions in the possibility of reductions, but we will also be the first to be affected. And it is our responsibility not to put our heads in the sand, not to blind the millions of refugees and the devastation that affects us, and it will affect us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u168	Mr Renato Sampaio made a declaration of climate emergency. Will you have the courage to vote in favour of one? To be in the front line of the fight against climate change is to recognize the global emergency, it is to recognize that there is another paradigm that fights climate change and does not give the hand to Trump or Exxon. If the Minister wants to be a champion of something in fact, he is changing the overall perspective, recognizing the climate emergency and listening and giving voice to activists, young people, millions of global activists, thousands of Portuguese activists, protecting workers and workers, climate refugees and reducing the introduction of more materials into production, reducing this climate injustice that comes from our productive sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u170	I also leave you with another advice, Minister. The less developed sectors in the strategies for carbon neutrality are defined and are those that could in fact contribute in a renewable way to reducing emissions: energy efficiency, which could improve network losses by around 30 %; solar and decentralized production; and finally public investment in transport enlargement, including rail. It's all identified, Minister. It is still possible to make changes to the implementation of this government and it is also possible to be more demanding in the measures on the table. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u171	With this intervention, we close the debate stage and move on to the closing stage. First of all, you have the floor, for an intervention, the parliamentary leader of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Environment Minister, whom we always like to see because of his sympathy, has arrived here with a disillusionment that we did not expect in this context. I brought the roadmap for the decarbonisation of the economy as its only document, the only one who was worth looking at alone; in another context I could have said'my price'. That was the only document the Government could present here, the only thing it can see, the one for which it lives, and there is no life beyond that. Mr Minister, I regret to disappoint you and give you here a deep blow to this disillusionment, but the reality is quickly overcoming us. Therefore, when we bring up a debate on the climate emergency, the answer is that it is not a debate on symbolism, but rather a debate on the concern that cannot go beyond each and every one of the political decision-makers. The question on the table — what happens if this Assembly of the Republic declares the state of emergency climate and what happens if the government declares the state of emergency climate? — the clear and unequivocal answer that we will give is that Portugal, the country of the European Union which will have the greatest damage to climate change, is concerned about its future. We will tell the young people who are in the galleries that this future, which is theirs, is in our concern and we will also say that we are taking the lead in this debate at European level. The Government will tell us: « But we are already doing so». Unfortunately, that is not true. Let us look, for example, at the priorities for the European budget: is there any concern about climate change? He's not! There is the defence of militarism as the great new pillar for the European budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u174	Who misses? Lose Portugal. Who wins? He wins the arms industry. Who failed? It failed the Portuguese Government, the Government of one of the most affected countries, which should have told Europe that there is a climate emergency and we must look at it. Therefore, whenever it is said that this climate emergency is only symbolism, we are failing the fundamental debate and going along with the priorities. But there is another aspect that I cannot but mention and which has to do with the way in which the Minister has entered this debate. It has tried to bring up a debate on the ISP and the government's promises on maintaining fiscal neutrality and making it forget, with this debate, that it is this government which will prolong the lives of the coal plants. And on that try to divert attention! It is even more serious to tell us that the theft, that we all feel in our energy bill — of EDP and other large energy companies — does not happen as far as energy revenues are concerned. The Minister told us: "Well, there is a debate about energy incomes, but there is a bad thing done here to the country when this is introduced as a problem, because we are attacking environmentally sustainable energy." Mr Minister, if someone tells us: "I have a gun here, I will rob you. This is a robbery, it is not for Mr. Minister to come back and say 'Attention, it is an environmentally sustainable assault' that ceases to be a robbery! It is a robbery and, as it is a robbery, it takes money to then we can invest in an environmentally sustainable energy transition. This is the big discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Who defends himself with this assault? Is it a green image of these energy companies? No, Mr. Minister! Greenwashing is Mr. Minister's action in trying to wash the image of this assault. It is not by EDP or others who have more money in their pocket that our country is better equipped to respond to climate change. This is why there is clearly a debate to be held here and to which the government, having things that we recognise it has done well, is failing in the priorities and steps in the implementation of the timetable. Therefore, one of the fundamental questions was to answer or, better, was answered by inaction. The question is whether the Government is prepared to go beyond the Paris Agreement, which the reality demonstrates is already overcome by climate change and global warming. Going beyond the Paris Agreement is not to meet the goals of carbon neutrality of 2050, it is to do so first. Our proposal is that it is until 2030 and what the government tells us is that it is not possible. Minister, that can't happen. Do not be amazed at what you have done and respond to the climate urgency of the new generations, in a country that needs examples to make the change that the world also needs to follow. From that point of view — and I shall end up, Mr President — waving aside what is going on in one of the fundamental points of an amendment in our economy, transport, is not acceptable. To ignore, as has been done here, that there are problems in the supply that does not meet the needs of those who want to use collective transport is to ignore an insurmountable reality. Ignore that there are train suppressions, meter suppressions, boat suppressions is insurmountable. To make this choice is to have a minister, not of the environment, but of propaganda. And, Minister, you don't want that to be your end. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u175	I would also like to thank Mr Pedro Filipe Soares for having contained himself within his own time. To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for the opportunity. I begin by answering — I cannot help but do — to three or four questions that have been left open. I do not really know that Mr Bruno Coimbra is proud when he says that this government has not promoted the use of public transport and that the PSD voted against the PART ( Public Transportation Tariff Reduction Support Programme). The only thing I remember that the previous government did in this matter was, days before leaving, giving half the Algarve for oil exploration!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u177	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u178	Yes, we heard the protesters, and with great pleasure. In fact, we found that the government's targets, reducing emissions by 2030, are higher than the target proposed by the protesters themselves. So it was not just us who heard the demonstrators, the demonstrators also heard us and corrected that same goal. from an environmental point of view, I have no doubt that the most striking word in political action is not the word « responsibility », the word « ambition ». And it is really the word "ambition" that moves us. But it is also true that I do not find a country that is doing more than we do, that I do not find a country that has a commitment greater than ours. Coal plants will even be closed before 2030 and, in order to be before 2030, there must be a very consistent investment in renewable energy. If the renewables awarded by tender had paid the EESC ( an extraordinary contribution on the energy sector ), as the Left Block wanted, no one would come to auctions and therefore there would be no investment. This is strictly true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u179	Frankly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u180	If there is something that concerns us it is even the problem of transport supply — in the subway, it has grown 14 %. What I cannot accept is that, for one more than legitimate strike at extraordinary hours, transport has worked worse in recent months! [[BE's protests.]] We really need to focus on and defend environmental conditions and to do so is absolutely essential. We are more serene and confident when our Roadmap proves us to decarbonise creates qualified jobs, smooths the demographic loss, guarantees greater dispersion of territory occupation, that is, decarbonise is good for the territory and is good for the economy. contrary to what has been said for many years, the environment even helps economy and decarbonization is intrinsically linked to changes that have to operate in mobility and energy. To reduce emissions in the transport sector by about 40 % by 2030, one of the most ambitious commitments worldwide, we will have to place a strong commitment on collective transport, on the electrification of mobility, on the adoption of soft and shared modes of transport. And the government has done its part. He did his part when he bet on collective transport and removed the barriers to its use for price reasons, advancing with the tariff reduction plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u181	But it's not for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u182	It did its part when it decided to financially support the modernisation of bus fleets through the PO SEUR. The distribution of more than 700 buses with high environmental performance across the country is currently underway.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u183	How old are you from here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u184	He did his part when he decided to support the renewal of the fleet of Transtejo ships and the compositions of the meters of Lisbon and Porto. In addition, it made it possible to expand the networks of the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto. By adding these five competitions for the acquisition of ships, carriages and expansion of the metro lines, the investment exceeds EUR 750 million. He did his part when he bet on the construction of 1000 km of cycleways until 2030. It did its part when it regulated the sharing of means of transport, sharing, when it legislated and proposed to this Parliament the legislation on TVDE (transport of uncharacterised vehicles), when it simplified the billetique, when it re-estimated transport companies, when it strengthened support for the introduction of electric vehicles, when it advanced with the renewal of the freighter network, when it opened to the market the fast loading of vehicles. I have listed important changes in mobility. I'll talk about energy now. When we came to protect this area, the first thing we noticed was the existence of a clumsy environment. A bad cristcation because, in order to be neutral in carbon emissions, we will have to produce 80 % of the electricity we consume from renewable sources, already in 2030. In order to meet the neutral targets in 2050, the electro-producer sector should be 100 % renewable on that date. In other words, Portugal's path in this area cannot be interrupted, but rather strengthened. A country with resources to generate 100 % of the electricity it consumes, but which imports 70 million barrels of oil and which still "lost" more than 400 million euros/year with environmentally wicked subsidies, has to take on a policy that is even ambitious. Ours was established within the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan, which commits itself by 2030 with a reduction of emissions which may reach 55 % compared to 2005, a 47% share of renewable energy in final energy consumption and 80 % in electricity generation. In short: an ambitious but realistic policy. Yes, it is ambitious to close the two coal plants by 2030, but it is also realistic because we propose to double the installed capacity for renewable production. Yes, it is ambitious to reach a target of 8 or 9 GW of electricity production from the wind. Yes, it is ambitious to attract investment in new solar capacity and realistic to think of adding about 7 8 GW to the national energy mix by 2030. Yes, it is ambitious to move forward with a new system of licensing for solar energy production, which eventually ends with the unproductive speculation that has, in practice, transformed production licences into securities. And it is realistic to combine the allocation of these licences through auctions that guarantee the best prices for consumers, with the geography of the network, indicating where the projects should be developed and thus avoiding the blind alleys of the past. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a lot for mobility and we are making it possible that much will be done in the energy sector. In short, we are doing a lot for the environment and also for the economy, with ambition and realism. It must be that way and so be it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u185	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda. In the second point, without discussion times, there is Bill No. 1189 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ) — Procedures for the authentic interpretation of Article 1041(7). the Civil Code, added by Article 2. the Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February establishing measures to correct situations of imbalance between tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban lease and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. from the third point of our agenda today, also without discussion times, there is motion for resolution No 91 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. Let us therefore turn to agenda item four, with regular votes. I would ask the services that prepare the electronic system so that we can carry out the quorum verification. Meanwhile, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report to the House of Ads. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 1214 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Regulates the end to be attributed to the tips of cigarettes, which fall to 11. the Commission, 1215 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Political Parties Financing Act No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June and the third amendment to the Political Parties Act, approved by the Organic Law No. 2 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 and approved the Legal Regime of the Political Parties Foundations and Associations, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education in public education, which falls to 8. Parliamentary opinions Nos 135 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 58 / 2019 of 30 April, which implements the transfer of competences to municipal bodies, to inter-municipal entities and to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, in the field of the public service of transport of regular passengers on inland waterways and to municipal bodies in the field of the transport of inland passenger transport, and 136 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 58 / 2019 of 30 April, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of passenger transport and the public service for the transport of regular passengers on inland waterways. Decisions Nos 24 / XIII / 4 were also submitted to the Bureau. a ( BE) — Declaration of the state of climatic urgency and 25 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Climate emergency state declaration and commitment to carbon neutrality and Resolution Project No 2164 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a moratorium regime for the installation of new intensive almond and olive crops, which falls to 7. the Commission. I must also inform that Mr André Silva, from the NAP, withdrew the Bill No 931 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the introduction of criminal proceedings accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the services are already in a position to post the results of the quorum verification in the electronic framework. I thank the services that do so. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 217 presences, so we have quorum to vote. We begin by voting vote No 827 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS ) — Praise to the performance of INEM in Mozambique. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 828 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and signed by 1 Member of the CDS-PP ) — Praised for the 40 years of the University of Algarve. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] Let us now vote on vote No 833 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS, BE, Greens and PCP, and subscribed by PSD and CDS-PP Members ) — From praise to the University of Algarve. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u188	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u189	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u190	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u192	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u193	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u194	Mr President, it is to inform, on behalf of the PSD, that we intend to make an oral vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u195	Mr President, on voting votes, there are no oral explanations of vote, only on legislative initiatives. The vote on vote No 829 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemning the arrest of the Secretary-General of the Party of Workers of Algeria Louisa Hanoune. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote vote No 830 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Congratulating on the statement of the United Kingdom and Ireland's state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, PS and PCP.]] The vote on vote No 834 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD Member ) — Concern about the impact of climate change and greeting on positions adopted by the parliaments of the United Kingdom and Ireland. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstaining from the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u196	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u197	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u198	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u199	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us vote vote No 831 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Of condemnation and concern for the 24 years of forced disappearance of the world's youngest political prisoner, 11. the Panchen Lama, practiced by the Chinese regime. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PAN, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, of 1 PS (Isabel Santos) and of 4 CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, João Pinho de Almeida and Telmo Correia), votes against the PCP and PSD, PS, CDS-PP and Os Verdes abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 832 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Concern about the alarming exhaustion of natural resources in the EU. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD and 3 Members of the CDS-PP (Philipe Anacoreta Correia, Ilda Araújo Novo and Patrícia Fonseca).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u200	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u201	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u202	Mr President, it is in order to announce that we will present on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 2152 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2165 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde and Côte d'Ivoire. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 2166 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Consequences and Political Responsibilities of Military Material Stealing in Tanks from 16 to 27 May 2019. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 1189 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ) — Procedures for the authentic interpretation of Article 1041(7). the Civil Code, added by Article 2. the Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February establishing measures to correct situations of imbalance between tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban lease and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 91 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member, Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 344 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider extending the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the abstention of the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1203 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Recommends the establishment of a national committee on the rights of children in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Children and the Convention on the Rights of Children. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 179 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation of the historical archive of Madeira RTP. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u204	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u205	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u206	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will give a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u207	Be registered, Mr. President. Let us now proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 700 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Creates the national commission on the rights of children and young people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed to the general vote on the draft Law No 975 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Promotes the establishment of an observatory for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police duties, and the Government withdraws its initiative in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on this replacement text by the plenary. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, lacking this matter of approval by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, provided that more than the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, the overall final vote of this replacement text will have to be made by means of electronic voting. I therefore ask the services that prepare the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members who vote against carry the red button and stand up. [[Pause.]] Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, you are not voting against, are you? It's just that you're standing... if you don't vote against, then I thank you for coming out of the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u208	I'm not leaving, Mr. President! As you know, I don't have a chair next to my computer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u209	I didn't remember, sir. That's very strange... We will continue the vote, and those who abstain will press the white button and stand up and those who vote in favour will press the green button and stand up. [[Pause.]] I would ask the services which present the result of this vote in the electronic framework and which deal urgently with Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto's chair.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u211	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u212	Mr President, that is to say, my electronic vote has not been recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u213	Is it in favor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u214	Yes, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u216	Mr President, I would also like to speak for the same purpose, because I have not been able to register myself and my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u218	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u219	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u220	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u221	All right, Mr President, you will do so at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u222	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u223	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u224	Mr. President, it is for two purposes. First, to say that there are 15 Members of the CFP who voted in favour, but only 14 records appear in the table. We have not been able to identify those who have not been able to register their votes, but all the Members vote in favour. Secondly, to announce an oral vote, which will be made by Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u226	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u227	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u228	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make an oral vote on this vote and also to announce that I will deliver a vote on the children's rights package, which at the time the Bureau did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u229	Of course, Mrs. Deputy, it is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u230	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u231	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u232	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to present an oral vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u233	Mr President, I would also like to speak for the same purpose to announce that we will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u234	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u235	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u236	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u237	Mr President, it is to mention a matter of regulation that will not have an impact on this vote, since the previous ones were made unanimously, but strictly, the electronic vote should have taken place in the specialty, because that is the constitutional requirement, and not in the overall final vote. I leave only this reflection for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u238	Mr President, I was informed that when we advocate the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, especially at the Commission level, and having been approved unanimously, there would be no need for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u239	Nevertheless, Mr President. It was just to leave that note.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u240	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Therefore, in the overall final vote, the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — The exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police functions was approved by 212 votes in favour, which clearly corresponds to more than two thirds of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen present. We continue with the text of replacement submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 154 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the legal regime for arms and their munitions, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 853, and to Bills Nos 837 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Opens an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms, 859 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Establishs the realization of a campaign of awareness and a new voluntary delivery period of firearms, with a view to disarming society, 899 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates a awareness campaign for the importance of voluntary delivery of firearms and ammunition, giving a new deadline for voluntary delivery without criminal proceedings and 931 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the establishment of a criminal procedure accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure, with the Government, the CFP, the Greens and the BE withdrawing its initiatives in favour of the replacement text and the NAP withdrawing its initiative before this vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it, generally. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission on the same replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of this same replacement text. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on Parliamentary Assessments Nos 67 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) and 68 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July establishing the legal regime of inclusive education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u242	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u243	Mr President, it is to announce on behalf of the CDS bench a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u244	A statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u245	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u246	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u247	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u248	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u249	Mr President, on the legal regime of inclusive education, the PS Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u250	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u251	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u252	Mrs. Member, what effect is it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u253	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u254	It is also registered, Mrs. After the vote, we shall then turn to the oral explanations of vote which have been announced, available to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, two minutes for each of them. Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u255	Mr. President: Freedom of trade union is a constitutionally enshrined right. Article 55. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic states that « the union freedom, condition and guarantee of the construction of its unity for the protection of its rights and interests is recognised to workers ». Some problems in the exercise of the trade union activity of the PSP were recorded and reached Parliament, which led the Government to submit Law No 46 / XIII / 2. a. In the view of the Left Block, this proposal for a law was limited, in particular by Article 3 thereof. the, which was precisely the union freedom, the activity and function of the union elements, of the PSP. For this reason, a specialized work was done that lasted more than two years and allowed to reach this replacement text which was now approved in this House, by a majority of two-thirds. The Left Block proposals were not all included, but we recognize that the replacement text greatly improved the Government's initial proposal. In particular: at the level of enforcement of the law to agents in the situation of assets and not only in the situation of service effectiveness, which left out much of the elements of the PSP ; at the back of the Government as regards the initial proposal for Article 3. the law, which meant an authentic « roll law», handling the action and the ability to denounce and defend workers by the unions, distorting the essence of action and trade union function; and also in the retreat as regards the extension of the possibility of transfer of PSP elements from their workplace. In the new wording, some restrictions were introduced on the use of claims of errors for the trade union exercise, precisely in order to regulate what was reported as some abuses that created injustices between the various elements, men and women, of the PSP. For all this, this replacement text was voted in favour of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u256	You have the floor for a statement of vote by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members; With regard to a real problem, which was the abuse of trade union credits and the existence of nearly 20 trade unions within the framework of the PSP, the PS Government presented a bill that provided for the transfer of trade union leaders without any guarantee, imposing an authentic "roll law" in which, by law, it was intended to prevent the delivery of statements by trade union leaders. Thus, the initial proposal of the PS Government was focused on the essential, which effectively deserved treatment, generating a chorus of criticism for attacking a conquest won the pulse by PSP agents, that of union freedom, at a time when the 30 years of « dried and wet » were celebrated, a symbolic date very important in the struggle of these workers. With the complaint and the struggle of the CFP, it was possible to stop this diploma, to which the first replacement text succeeded. A replacement text, signed by the PSD and the PSD, which did not fully respond to the initial objectives of the law and maintained the « roll law » in union leaders and a limit of 50 leaders for the most representative structures. Thus, this replacement text faced again problems and did not serve trade unionism in the PSP. With the persistence and struggle of the PCP, which also led to the denunciation of this fact and to the position of the most representative association of police professionals, the ASPP ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ), was effectively able to press for a new replacement text and PS and PSD became obliged to present a second replacement text. However, in this second replacement text, a large part of the problems that existed in the previous text have indeed been resolved, and this is factual. The CFP was not satisfied with the second replacement text and, nevertheless, we have tabled amendments which have been largely adopted in the Commission in particular. Thus, the impossibility of being affiliated in more than one union association was approved and the maximum limit of 50 leaders for trade union structures was removed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u258	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u259	In conclusion, Mr President, the final outcome deserves the PCP's favourable vote. It is a legal diploma that enhances and dignifies the union movement in the PSP, with the action and struggle of the Communist Party. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u260	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Seventeen years later, today we approve a relevant change to the exercise of the trade union freedom of the PSP. And we make this amendment with a great scope and convergence of this whole House, a sign of the opening of the permanent dialogue of this parliamentary group with all parties. A two-thirds majority was required, for which we were summoned. We have made a replacement text with the Democratic Social Party, but we have not stopped talking, talking and demonstrating openness to welcome proposals from all parliamentary groups, with the sense of state which has always characterized this parliamentary group, taking into account that the first law of trade union freedom is in our genesis. It should be remembered that this law of 2002 was approved in this Chamber under the aegis of Antonio Guterres. Therefore, the party which has in its genesis the first law of trade union freedom was also 17 years later the party who was able to converge to have in this Parliament such an expressive majority in the adoption of this important revision to the law of trade union freedom. Mrs. Members, I would also like to say that with this law, we value a democratic culture in security policy, dignify trade union associationism and prestigious Portugal. We value this democratic culture in security policy, because there is no democratic security policy if its professionals do not recognize their essential democratic rights. Therefore, what we have done throughout this parliamentary work and what we will soon clarify in the debate in general, either through the Government or through this parliamentary group, has been to ensure that Article 3. in the replacement text, the preservation of this essential core of rights was already clear, and we also maintained the guarantee for the transfer of union leaders. We dignify trade unions and associationism, introducing criteria and limits based on representativeness and proportionality for these unions, creating, as necessary, criteria of equity in relation to hour credits for trade union leaders and trade union delegates and also in collective bargaining. With this legislation and with this new revision, we prided Portugal, which in this area continues to adopt fair, balanced and proportionate solutions, reconciling trade union rights and freedoms with the safety of citizens in a democratic society, values we have always preserved, and we have managed to maintain Portugal always at the level of good practices and with European standards, in terms of trade union freedom and public security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u262	Mr Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u263	Mr President: The government started this process, which deals with an area of sovereignty, listening only to itself, and therefore did not please anyone. Neither their left-wing partners nor trade unions nor much less the PSD. It has therefore produced a proposal that was born cake—very cake! — but which has been addressed with the decisive contribution, in this mandatory case, because we are talking about a law of strengthened value, and essential of the PSD. We warned, in advance, that we were not passing blank checks to anyone. I said that in the debate in general. We said as soon as we stopped the so-called « roll law », which shuts down the union leaders and almost made it impossible for them to speak, which would be unacceptable. We called for new rules for collective bargaining, and we warned that the regime should be moralized, with regard to the indiscriminate enjoyment of hours and days' credits for the exercise of trade union activity, preventing union delegates from being held in certain units, particularly in teams, from being more union delegates than police in effective function. We heard all the unions, produced a long and very reflective work. The PS and the government had no alternative but to correct the step, correct the way, accepting our proposals, which were indeed mandatory. With this, they produced a bill, which was adopted here with rare unanimity and which ultimately allows the police to win, which wins the union activity, but, essentially, that wins the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u264	To conclude the explanations of vote, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in this case, the first aspect that is recorded is that it has been lost for a long time. It was a long time lost because the government introduced a law that had neither feet nor heads. It was the law of the roll, it was the limitation of the unions, and we went for months, years, saying that we should simplify, that we should make a law of rigour, which was not necessary what was presented. Then, in the field of specialty, the law improved. It is clear that there are materials, also on the side of the CDS, that have not been fully approved, some coincidentally, even with other parties, thinking about the territorial teams, thinking about the issue of credits, thinking, for example, about the guarantee of immobility, which ended up remaining, but not in our version. The final reading we have made of the specialty for the plenary is that of which a consensus is generated. The law is an advance, the law is positive and therefore the CDS does not break this consensus, the CDS joins in this consensus and votes in favour. Trade unionism in the security forces was an advance that took time and was a very important step for the security forces and the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot still under discussion on the Bureau. There are many fair demands: there are matters in terms of effectiveness, there are matters in terms of careers, there are matters in terms of career progression, there are matters in terms of remuneration, which are to be resolved. There, the role of trade unions is obviously fundamental. This law essentially establishes two things that are very important to us. First, it sets out the criteria for representativeness. The issue of the proliferation of trade unions was not acceptable, it was not admissible, and trade unionism was decreasing. Secondly, it sets out criteria for rights and duties. That is essential, even if we do not forget that, in terms of the representation of security forces, there are career issues, there are very important corporate issues, but there is also always, in relation to the work of women and men who serve our security forces, a huge media pressure and often even a huge political criticism of those who do not understand their performance and who are always willing to point their fingers at the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u266	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u267	In this regard, the role of the unions is equally fundamental and that is why we have joined this consensus. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-15.u268	We have thus reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session is held on May 29, Wednesday, with the following agenda: firstly, there will be political statements; secondly, the joint assessment of Petition No 435 / XIII / 3 is followed. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Calls for measures to be taken with a view to the use of vests in hunting and drafts of Law Nos 1090 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the use of clothing as a means of hunting and 1091 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter the law of hunting preventing the use of t-shirts as a hunting process; from the third point is the assessment of Petition No 512 / XIII / 3. a ( José Rui Pereira da Silva Raposo et al.) — Modernization of the western railway line. My votes for an excellent election campaign for all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are here and until May 29th. [[It was 13 hours and 9 minutes.]]
