ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Members, as you know, are scheduled for today for the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on income policies, but before that there are several — and I say « several» in a very optimistic way — diplomas that have entered the Bureau, which will be announced to the House. I therefore ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, the following draft laws: No. 34 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the sustainability factor in pensions allocated under the special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for workers in the mining industry and workers in the interior or underground mining and mining industries, which falls to 10. the Commission ; paragraph 35 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure free access to the medicine to users over 65 years of age, chronic patients and families with economic deficiency, which falls to 9. the Commission ; paragraph 36 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( Amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; paragraph 37 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures to promote sustainability and ensure equipment to combat programmed obsolescence, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Materializes the right to a mandatory change in the position of remuneration to public higher education teachers, which goes down to 8. the Commission ; and No 39 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Prevents the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing diclofenac, which falls to 7. the Commission. They were also presented, and admitted, the Bills No. 40 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of the application of the sustainability factor to long-term involuntary unemployment pensions and revision of special schemes and measures in anticipation of the age of access to old age pensions, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 41 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replacement of family allowance steps for children and young people, with a view to their universality, which goes down to 10. the Commission ; 42 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reduction of packaging waste, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. a ; 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the right to 25 days of annual holidays ( Tenth sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( Tenth Sixth Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code and the Tenth Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 45 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amends the GNR Statute for the weekly reference time ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March 2017 ), which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 10. a ; 46 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the criteria for non-emergency transport of patients which falls to 9. the Commission ; 47 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector ( Sixteenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 48 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced during the period of the troika concerning dismissal by termination of the job and eliminates the figure of dismissal by inadaptation, making the sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which goes down to 10. the Commission ; and 49 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Lein.o 50 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate redundancies and reduce compensation due to workers by making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which falls to 10. the Commission ; 51 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the end of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Portugal, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 52 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Privileges the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, except the decree of this regime to cases of child abuse, neglect and domestic violence, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; 53 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Purpose to ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by those with pets, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 54 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Ban the marketing of veterinary medicinal products whose active principle is diclofenac, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 55 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the exemption for child care up to 2 years of age, in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, making the tenth fifth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 56 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Clarify the remuneration progression regime of higher education teachers, which goes down to 8. the Commission ; 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and extends the rights of former combatants, former military and disabled of the Armed Forces ( Amends the seventh Act No 503 / 99 of 20 November, the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2002 of 11 February, the first amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January, and the first amendment to Law No 76 / 2018 of 11 October ), which falls to 3. the Commission ; 59 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased disease allowance for serious, chronic or oncological patients ( Sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004 ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 60 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the allowance for follow-up to children up to 3 years old, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February 2009 which falls to 10. the Commission ; and 62 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the right of children up to 3 years to be accompanied by parents who fall to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u3	I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members also entered the Bureau and were admitted to draft resolutions Nos 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government resolve persistent delays in the processing of retirement pensions, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 21 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Measures to eradicate the use of glyphosate, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 23 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the location of the future neonatology and care unit in pregnancy and delivery of Coimbra on the grounds adjacent to the hospital of the Covões; 24 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the number of Members in the Portuguese Parliament be reduced to 1. the Commission ; 25 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Calls on the Government to take the necessary structural measures to ensure the sustainability of ADSE, which falls to 5. the Commission ; 26 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Simplification of access to the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute and implementation of concrete support to its holders, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 27 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Temporary stabilization of small-scale and small-scale fishing and aquaculture support, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 28 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school education establishments, which falls to 8. the Commission ; and 29 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Implementation of the new motherhood of Coimbra on the campus of General Hospital ( Covões ). They were also presented, having been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos. 30 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reversion of the privatisation of TTCs, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 31 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 32 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a strategic environmental assessment on the expansion of Humberto Delgado Airport and the construction of Montijo Supplementary Airport, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 33 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revoke the authorisation granted to the Administration of the Port of Setúbal to advance with the dredgings in Sado ; 34 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government update the list of materials containing asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment where public services are provided, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 35 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the Forces and Security Services, establishing a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and 36 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to minimize the impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on the lives of these patients, which falls to 9. the Commission. I also report on the entry into the Bureau and the admission of draft resolutions Nos 41 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Saving the coastal forests: short and long-term commitments down to 7. the Commission ; 42 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — by defense of Pinhal de Leiria, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with forestry criteria under the National Leiria Forest Recovery Plan, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 46 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends suspension of dredgings in the Port of Setúbal ; 47 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the conditions for the effective possibility of 6th from 3 years of pre-school education of the public network of the Ministry of Education, which falls to 8. the Commission ; 48 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra covering the number of births of current maternity and is located at the General Hospital of the Covões ; 49 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, monitoring and monitoring of the valuation of the National Lawn Plant, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 50 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease, which falls to 9. the Commission ; and 51 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles associations, which falls to 1. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Draft Rules No. 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic eliminating the qualitative difference of treatment currently existing between the political parties in this Assembly represented, which falls to 1. the Commission. Mr. President, that's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha and Sofia Araújo, for the effort and efficiency. We will then enter our agenda, which has as its sole point the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on income policies under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: One of the most important results of the economic policy change initiated at the end of 2015 is the reduction, to half, of the unemployment rate. As the National Institute of Statistics announced last week, the unemployment rate in Portugal is 6, 1 %, the lowest value of the last 17 years and strictly half of the 12, 2 % verified in the fourth quarter of 2015 when we started functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even more important is the fact that unemployment has fallen at the same time as the active population has increased. This means that the unemployment rate did not fall by statistical effect, because there are more people to emigrate or because there are more discouraged people who have given up looking for employment. Don't! It is exactly the opposite: there are more people in Portugal encouraged and available to work. Since 2017 the migration balance has become positive and today there are more 386 000 people employed in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, there are two other factors that need to be retained. First: 95 % of the net jobs created during the previous legislation consisted of contracts without end. Secondly, the increase in employment and the reduction in precariousness has been accompanied by a 9 % improvement in average wage income over the past four years. The new economic policy has thus proved to contribute positively to strengthening economic growth, strengthening public finances, strengthening the sustainability of our social security, and maintaining more and better employment. Now we must continue, because there is still a long way to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the field of employment, this Parliament will be marked by three main priorities: strengthening the fight against precariousness, reconciling personal, family and professional life and a new impetus to the exploitation of work. The first priority is to ensure a stable and predictable horizon of life for those who work. The recent amendments introduced in the Labour Code have strengthened the fight against precariousness, in particular by limiting the duration and renewal of long-term contracts, penalising the excessive rotation of workers and causing those seeking first employment or being long-term unemployed to be no longer subject to such a contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures now require greater monitoring capacity to avoid files and abuses that undermine the dignity of work. The second priority is to promote greater reconciliation between personal life, family life and professional activity. We therefore hope soon to conclude a social agreement on Programme 3 in Line, which we presented at the end of last year and which includes a wide range of measures to ensure a healthy balance between work, family and leisure. The third priority is income policy. It is true that income policy is not summed up by the wage component, it has to involve labour taxation, non-monetary transfers in access to quality public services and other incomes, such as pensions and social benefits. But wage developments have — and must — a key role in this income policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is imperative to achieve a more equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth. in a sentence: it is necessary to improve the incomes of those who work. We therefore need a generalized wage upward movement, a movement that can only occur in a sustainable way, being assumed and shared by both trade unions and employers, in social dialogue, with the dynamization of collective bargaining and based on social consultation and on the growth of the economy and firmness of companies. We therefore called on all the social partners to negotiate a comprehensive agreement on economic growth and income policy, an agreement that, in a balanced and responsible way, will help to improve business productivity and increase the weight of wage in gross domestic product. We therefore want to conclude a pact for growth with more investment, better knowledge and greater income, a pact that ensures that everyone benefits from the opportunities and well-being provided by economic growth, while at the same time promoting the modernisation of businesses and the competitiveness of our economy, particularly through a strong commitment to innovation and to strengthening the link between training and education systems and the productive fabric. As such, we also want to agree with the social partners on the wage valuation of qualified young people. Today, we have the most well-prepared generation ever, but unfortunately, we do not yet have the fairest pay. In fact, since the beginning of the economic crisis, the wage premium of qualifications — i.e. the increase in remuneration for those with a higher level of qualification — has fallen, especially for young people. It is therefore necessary to set a reference for collective bargaining by defining which qualification premium should apply not only to those who have a degree but also to those who have attended a higher professional technical course or have a professional certification. Only in this way will we give the new generations the right message about their future in our country and contribute to the sustained improvement of the productivity of our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the value of the national minimum wage must be consistently raised. The minimum wage is an important tool for combating inequalities and eradicating poverty at work, so it cannot evolve solely on the basis of inflation and improved productivity. If so, the minimum wage would grow only 12 % up to 2023, reaching a maximum value of €672. by assuming the ambition and the goal of reaching the 750 € monthly in 2023, we give expression to the objective of overcoming the situation of poverty at work, in order to cover cases such as a couple in which only one of the members works 100 % of the time; a couple with two children in which each one works at least 67% of the time; or a single parent family with only one child. We are going further, even further, than in the previous legislature. If in the last four years the minimum wage has increased 95 €, in the next four years it will increase 150 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The increase of 19 % in the last legislation was made at the highest rate of time, but will now be exceeded, in this Parliament, with the increase of 25 %, and the minimum wage will be increased from €505 to €750, and this will be an increase of almost 50 % in eight years. For the next year, after consulting the social partners and considering their proposals, the Government will approve tomorrow at the Council of Ministers the value of the national minimum wage, setting it at €635 per month. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an increase of 5, 8 %, appropriate to the economic and social situation we live in and perfectly compatible with our legislative objective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: more growth, more employment, more equality and the right accounts have been our motto. in this quadruple goal none of the points is sustainable without the others and each one contributes positively for all to be achieved. Therefore, as we look at income policy and wage developments, we also look at the conditions necessary to improve business productivity, such as vocational training or investment incentives; to reduce their context costs and other production factors, such as energy; to ensure fair transition, to digital challenges and climate change; to improve infrastructure and to support its internationalisation, with the opening up of new markets and the international promotion of national production. It is for this collective effort that we are all summoned, and to which the Government says: present! [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u7	Mr Prime Minister, the flexibility which the Bureau has used, in terms of time, will, of course, be proportionately distributed by the other speakers. We are now moving to the stage of requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, I said from the speaker's rostrum that if the national minimum wage was to rise to the inflation rate it would reach €673 in 2023, this added to the productivity—but I may have heard poorly. In other words, by applying inflation, plus productivity, we would increase the national minimum wage by 2, 9 % per year, reaching these €673 in 2023. We understand that it is little and we put the challenge of reaching 700 €. To reach €700 in 2023 means that the increase would not be of 2, 9 % per year but of 3, 9 %, therefore more than 1 % than a national minimum wage of balance. The Socialist Party, moreover, proposes €750, which means increasing the national minimum wage now to €635. It is an increase of 5, 7 % per year, almost 5, 8 %, i.e. exactly twice every year than inflation plus productivity. in a favourable economic scenario, of growth of the international economies that have driven our economy, we have increased €95 in four years; the proposal now is to increase €150 in four years, and it is four years when we are not exactly sure that the growth rates can reach the levels at which they have reached in the last four years. So my question is this: how can the Prime Minister say, from the rostrum, that it is guaranteed that the minimum wage will reach the 750 €, when we have no accurate notion of what the evolution of the economy will be? For the €635 already for next year, I wonder if you feel comfortable. Do you not think that we are in danger of eventually harming those who want to benefit, just those who gain less? It is true that the unemployment rate is low, but we cannot abuse it. So my question is whether you are completely comfortable with this and if you can guarantee us — I don't know how! Is that what you're talking about? — that we will reach the 750 € in 2023. The other issue related to the national minimum wage relates to the fact that, at the moment, in practice, there is no national minimum wage, because the XXI Constitutional Government, in practice, ended it. There is a minimum wage for employees in the private sector and there is another minimum wage for civil servants, which means that there is no national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u9	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u10	Now, being the minimum wage always unfair—because all workers who take out the minimum wage necessarily deserve more than that, the economy is that it does not allow more than that — it is not correct, it is not fair to treat unequally what must be equal. In other words, the minimum wage in public service must be equal to the minimum wage in private, because it is by definition unfair that everyone should earn more. My question is this: will the Government, in this legislature — and if so — level the two minimum wages, i.e. to re-create a national minimum wage in which the Portuguese are all treated equally and not unequally again as a result of the policy of the XXI Constitutional Government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u12	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, I would like to point out a very important fact: four years ago, when the national minimum wage was defined as a priority, there was a deep division in Portuguese society, and there was even one who feared that, with this increase in national minimum wage, we would run away from investors, we would break confidence in companies and destroy jobs. Four years back, fortunately, the economic situation allows us to be at a new level of discussion today. Today, we are discussing the amount, but no one is already calling into question the need for a very significant recovery of the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, it is always difficult to reach consensus on this matter. We see the employers' confederations propose for next year a national minimum wage of €620, we saw a trade union confederation propose €690 and we saw others propose the most varied numbers. Our objective is that, in addition to what is actually inflation and estimated productivity by 2023, there is a clear reinforcement that takes into account the social dimension of the minimum wage, and it seems to us that this target of the 750 € is adjusted. As we have said and stated in the Government Programme, year by year we will hear the social partners, we will take account of economic developments and employment developments and, in each year, we will determine the appropriate amount. By 2020, we feel absolutely comfortable starting with what under normal conditions should and could be the annual evolution trajectory up to €750, which is this 5, 8%. This is how we start and hope that the economy and employment will give us good reasons for continuing this course. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the second part of my speech, in which I stressed that we cannot look at the productivity of a static provision as if it were invariant. We have to have a set of measures, and we will adopt them to contribute to the positive development of business productivity so that it can improve the competitiveness of our economy so that it can improve the growth of our economy. Therefore, the differential between inflation, productivity and the goal that we set must be lower and this means that we continue to have not only solid, better-paid jobs, but also companies in better conditions of operation. Finally, the minimum wage has never existed in the civil service — there is no or will exist in the civil service. The minimum wage is even a policy instrument aimed at the private sector. Before, it was different by sectors of activity, today it is no longer different by sectors of activity, but it has never existed nor will it continue to exist in public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u13	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u14	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the latter matter, allow me to disagree completely. It is clear that, in a formal sense, there may be no national minimum wage in public service, but we all know that in public service no one earns less than €635 at this time, and in private no one earns less than €600. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, the minimum wage may not formally exist, but in practice, less is gained in private than in public service, taking into account people with lower qualifications. And, as I said, it's not fair, because I think any worker who earns the minimum wage deserves more and, therefore, we all agree to forcing the minimum wage up. But the economy has to allow and if the economy does not allow it in the private sector, by nature, the public has to come by drag. We cannot give you this small privilege when we cannot give it to the Portuguese people. So, in this respect, there really is a disagreement. [[PSD applause.]] I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a question which I am particularly concerned about and which, I think, is worrying many Portuguese. The Government's programme clearly states that it will create a "non-retention plan in basic education" — these are the terms that are written there. My question is this: what do you mean, in practice? in practice, this means what infers from the news: that in Portugal the Government of the Socialist Party understands that up to 9. the year of schooling, up to 14 years of age, can no one refuse? I mean, you want the student to know, or don't you know, it always happens? Or does this mean that the government will make a plan to support those who don't know what to know and then, if I don't know, you have to refuse, because there is no other remedy? So to be clear, if the idea is to support students with more difficulties, I certainly think there will be no one who disagrees, we will see what the success of the government in this plan. The different thing is to take this to administrative passages, which I had the opportunity to see abundantly in 1975, in Portugal, and not only in basic education. [[PSD applause.]] If it is to do so, my disagreement is even greater than in the case of national minimum wage being different in public and private service. We have to respect children themselves and a lack of respect for children is to say this: « You are 10, 11, 12 years old, but you are always up to 14 years old ». That is to put a stop to the future of children, to the future of our society! [[PSD applause.]] So I wanted to take this opportunity to ask you this question so that you can do one of two things: either reassure the Portuguese people or, then, put the Portuguese concerned about what might happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u16	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, we are still talking about the subject of the minimum wage. Given that you said here that you feel at risk, you do not feel comfortable with the 635 € minimum monthly national wage in 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u17	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u18	... and considering that it argues that there should be an equality between the minimum wage in the private sector and the basic remuneration in the Public Administration, means that what will be proposed in the State budget for 2020 is the freezing of the base salary of whom? Of public servants? Or does it admit that the basic salary of public servants may also have an increase in wages? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As for the issue of retention in basic education, not only Portuguese can be calm as, in particular, you can be calm. Portugal has a very important objective that has been continuing over the last decades: combating early school dropout and promoting educational success. In a short time, we fell from 40 % to about 10 %, 8 % — when I say « in a short time », I mean - in the last few decades - and we have the goal, taken by the country with the European Union, of reaching 10 % by 2020. I have done so in a sustained way: in the last four years, we have dropped from 13, 7% to 10, 8% and all the recommendations, from the National Council of Education to the OECD, stress that the high retention rate—and we have one of the highest—does not favour educational success; on the contrary, it tends to compromise educational success.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u19	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u20	In fact, this is reflected, for example, in an opinion of the National Education Council, when Prof. David Justino was president of the National Education Council, he continues to include the recommendations and what we have seen as having had a very relevant success are the programs to promote school success, negotiated and executed by each school group, taking into account the specific reality of each territory and the specific needs of each student. So it is not a question of re-editing administrative passages, which I believe Mr Rui Rio has not benefited — as I have not benefited from them either! — but, on the contrary, ensure effective opportunities that no one stays behind, that no one is held back, compromising its evolution. Indeed, we do not give up in doing what is right for us, which is to contribute to the success of those who are facing the greatest difficulties in their educational journey. This is a measure for school success, not a measure for school facilitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u21	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I confess that I ended up not getting it right. It is not a measure of facilitation, there are no administrative passages, but, on the other hand, with your speech I doubt whether it is a measure for success or a measure not to retain students. basically, the question is this: a student arrived at the end of the school year, he doesn't know. Does it happen or does it not? This is the bottom line! [[PSD applause.]] To do everything he knows is right, but if then, at the end, he doesn't know how to move on to the next year's materials, obviously that can't happen, because that's to the detriment of the student himself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u23	The clear question I ask you is: will students who do not know refuse or, in Portugal, until they are 14 years old no one will repudiate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u24	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u25	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u26	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, what all the recommendations indicate is that retention does not favour learning, it favours the multiplication of retention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, what is expected is that, within each cycle, there is no retention, there is opportunity to continue the study,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u27	Then they're all passing through!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u28	...there is an opportunity to have the measures of pedagogical follow-up and promotion of educational success so that we can reach the end of the cycle... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u29	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Prime Minister answer. in the same way that Mr Rui Rio has not been interrupted, I ask that they do not interrupt Mr. Prime Minister's reply now either. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u30	... and no one is early deprived of the opportunity to complete their training cycle with proper approval. This simply means one thing: we do not limit ourselves to chumbar and give up this student; we do not limit ourselves to chumbar and give up that student; we give this student the opportunity to be able to pursue, successfully, his educational course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u31	Mr Rui Rio has the floor in his use of the PSD Parliamentary Group's time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, my view is exactly the opposite. [[PSD applause.]] If a student doesn't know and, even if he doesn't know, he's always going through, that's where I quit the student, that's where he's given up to his luck. I mean, the student knows or doesn't know. Until I could have helped him know and he couldn't, but it's the same thing. You're on your way to what? That's what I don't get! He's on his way after 14 years of age from 15, 16, 17 years old and already without basic knowledge. He has no academic future, of course! Therefore, it is an unfair measure. It may not be called an administrative passage, it may be given a more sophisticated name, but in practice it corresponds to what the administrative passages are. That's, if you know what's going on and if you don't know, it's going on too. This is to disrespect the future of children, especially up to the age of 14. We have an opposite view and look that this is even structurally different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u33	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u34	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, your question is a good one that is the most dangerous thing in political life, which is when we think politically on the basis of the common sense and not on the basis of better information. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is a structurally different change, and I invite you to promote a thematic debate exclusively on this subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Until then, I suggest to the honourable Member that he be able to read the recommendations of the National Education Council, as of 2015, when chaired by Prof. David Justino, the studies of the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation on the effects of repetition on the benefit of school success of students and all recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) on this matter. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] After you are properly informed, then we return to the discussion on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u35	What a superiority!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u36	in this period of questions, you now have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Prime Minister brought here questions relating to work and I would like to speak of work. The questions of public service and the State budget will certainly be for other discussions. So let's go to the questions that brought us. Mr Prime Minister has come to announce, and well, the increase in national minimum wage, even without agreement in social consultation. It is important that this increase be made. I note that it is often mentioned in this Parliament, and by the Prime Minister too, the idea that labour issues should always be decided on in social consultation. Social dialogue is not the high chamber of Parliament, and Parliament and the government have clear responsibilities. I also remember what the debate four years ago was when it was decided that the national minimum wage would have to increase at least 5 % a year, and how the right would say the devil was coming.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u39	Now, the right doesn't speak of the devil anymore, says there may be some discomfort. however, there is something we have already learned. We learn that, if we do not raise the national minimum wage, then, yes, the economy is bad, because it is pulling the wages that are being pushed by the economy. That is why it is so important that the decision to increase the national minimum wage, regardless of whether or not there is agreement in social consultation. Mr. Prime Minister, on our part, this increase could go further than is announced. We said, and we continue to consider, that there would be all conditions for a national minimum wage of 650 €, already in January, that would, in fact, be drawn by wages in the most varied sectors. I must say that I find it shocking to hear the PSD use here the word 'privilege' when it speaks of minimum wages and increase to €635.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u41	It's just that 635 € is very little. Not even enough to pay home rent in most of the cities of this country. It is so little €635 that a mother who works full-time for the national minimum wage and who has a child is already below the poverty threshold if she does not have social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u42	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u43	We are talking about a national minimum wage that does not remove workers from poverty, even with this increase. Use of the word 'privilege' here is absolutely void. What we need, yes, is to value wages — the minimum wage and all the others — and much more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u45	Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to speak to you about the other salaries, because I have heard you say so here — in fact, in the discussion of the Government's programme I have also said so — that I hope there will be a broad agreement in the social dialogue for a more qualified economy and for the recovery of wages. All right! But are we gonna wait for a social agreement? If in the national minimum wage we know that waiting for social consultation is to give the bosses the power to keep the minimum wage so low, then to value the average wages, do we believe that it will be possible to do so without changes in legislation? Can we believe that it is the social consultation that will allow the reconciliation of family life in a country where we work more and more hours and always, always with low wages, of the lowest in Europe? The question I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the Government does not understand that, as in order to increase the minimum wage it had to advance even without social consultation, there are also issues of labour law that have to be changed in order to raise the average wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u46	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u47	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we have always had the same principle: we are dependent on social consultation, not; we are ignoring social consultation, never. There must be social dialogue in the company, there must be collective bargaining in each sector and there must be social dialogue. We are as hostage to the social partners in social dialogue, as in collective bargaining, and that is not why we all stop thinking that it is important to dynamize collective bargaining, so that there can be a better wage evolution, adjusted to the reality of each sector. When we have to fix the national minimum wage in a cross-sectional way to all sectors, indeed, we do not go as far as we could go in many and perhaps we may be going to the limit of others, such as clothing or footwear, in which in many companies setting this goal can already create some difficulties. However, the success of the policy that we have been pursuing continuously since November 2015 has precisely been based on the virtuosity of income and trust for investment if they have strengthened each other. It is this path of mutual confidence that we should continue. So we don't think we're waiting. We believe that we are working with social dialogue to obtain a result that is desirable and absolutely vital. It is obvious that the rise of the minimum wage itself puts great pressure on the rise of the remaining wage levels. But that's not enough, we have to go further. We must go further, in particular, with regard to qualified young people, be licensed, have certified training, because that is the price that we pay for companies themselves to be able to improve their productivity. Because if there is an effective mechanism for the transfer of knowledge to businesses, that is the creation of jobs and the employment of more qualified people. That is what we have to do and count on the social partners to be able to do together, and when I say 'the social partners', I say 'with all the social partners'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u48	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, we fully agree that collective bargaining is central and absolutely in accordance with the priorities for valuing wages, reconciling family life and combating precariousness. The problem, Prime Minister, is that, as long as employers are able to unilaterally expire collective bargaining, we will always be hostage to employers when discussing either the reconciliation of family life or the fight against precariousness, or wage valorization. And that's where the problem is. The Left Block presents concrete solutions. We have already presented, as you know, the end of the cuts that are still in labour law and that have come from the time of the troika. But we want to go further, precisely to achieve the objectives that the government sets out. In order not to be the patrons' hostages and to be able to value the professions, so that the reference on the qualifications that protect the younger ones is real, then we need a collective contract that is serious. And for collective bargaining to be serious, employers cannot unilaterally expire contracts and we must have the principle of more favourable treatment, precisely so that the reference to which the government is speaking may exist; otherwise, it will be death letter. Secondly, we need to reconcile family life with work and protect workers. You know, we already have 750 000 workers in Portugal working for shifts and night work, and there is no conciliation without looking at this reality. For this, three things are very clearly needed: to limit shiftwork; to protect the health of these workers: and to compensate them, whether on vacation or on rest and on reform. Finally, we need a more productive economy — of course we need — and in which generations are found. For this, international experience tells us what the way is: 35 hours of work! Thirty-five hours of weekly work is what everyone values in their time, also familiar, and that is what enables them to increase productivity and also the employment of younger generations. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to address another issue, even beyond the subject of work: the situation of schools. I think it is very good that all the education is being discussed, and the Left Block wants to do so, but we could respond now what we are going to do to the urgency of the schools that are closing or closing earlier, to schools that have libraries or laboratories that are closed, to those schools that are telling children with special educational needs or with disabilities to stay at home or that cannot be in all areas of the school. More than 3000 operational assistants and 1000 technical assistants in schools are missing. What the government is going to do now so that we won't lose 1. the period? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u50	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u51	We agree, Mr President, that no social partner has the right to freeze collective bargaining, social dialogue or social dialogue. There are three absolutely fundamental instances which must be dynamized. We have already taken measures on survival, on speeding up the extension of the scope of the extension ports and, fortunately, in the most various sectors, there has been a greater dynamisation of collective bargaining. Now, it's not worth creating myths. The employers who can block social consultation are exactly the same as those who can block collective bargaining, even if collective agreements do not expire. So, indeed, we have to create, once and for all in our country, a spirit of commitment, dialogue, negotiation and social dialogue for the modernization and benefit of our country as a whole, in which the State has a role. The State does not intervene in negotiation, does not intervene in social dialogue, but intervenes in the definition of public policies. The public policies that the State can adopt, inter alia, incentives to investment, the creation of day care centres, the creation of good public transport networks are important in order to help improve the income of families at the same time and improve the living conditions of all those who work and live in their wages. Regarding the situation in schools, as you know, in the last legislation we increased the number of operational assistants in all schools by 4000. As you know, we are currently in a transition process that is certainly not different from the situation that has been going on in this school year in the context of the decentralization process. What we have done is authorised not only contracts, as the substitution regime has agile, given that there is a very high level of casualties or other forms of absenteeism at the level of operational assistants in schools. Therefore, we have created the conditions for speeding up the answers that are necessary for schools to work. It is very important to note that, over these years, we have also significantly reduced the ratio of the number of employees per student, which was from 1 employee to 26 students and became from 1 employee to 22, 6 students. [[Just in pre-school!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u52	in the case of support for children with special educational needs, we increased, precisely in pre-school, the number of operational assistants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u53	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, for collective bargaining to exist, the State defines the rules and protects or does not protect workers. at this time, the workers covered by collective bargaining are still only half those who were before the start of the crisis. And worse than that, only one fifth of Portuguese workers are covered by collective bargaining. It's almost all there is to do. With regard to schools, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to suggest some immediate measures. We believe that it is necessary to review the ratios of non-teaching staff, because a school that has many poles is different from a school that has only one building, a school that has laboratories is different from one school that does not have them, a school with gymnasiums is different from one school that does not have them — all this is putting huge problems in schools. We also need to review the ratios for children with special educational needs, because we only increase the number of operational assistants in preschool. But, Prime Minister, at the moment, there are schools that are not opening the contests, and they could do so for the operational assistants they need, because they do not have any technical assistants to do these contests either. Therefore, such support must be placed immediately on the ground. And it is necessary to replace not only the operational assistants and the technical assistants who are absent for health reasons, but also those who have gone out in mobility and those who have gone out in retirement. It is that more than 400 have applied for reform this year—there were 5000 who have applied for reform in the last nine years, but only this year was 400. Therefore, having admitted 4000 is not enough, we are in the same loss and we need to hire these educational action assistants. Moreover, the government cannot wait for the authorities to solve the problem of employees who are missing in schools. "Passing the hot potato" to the authorities has two problems. The first is that there is no guarantee that the authorities are able to solve the problem — indeed, the lack of employees in schools only shows, as the Left Block has always said, that the process of decentralization was and is a mistake. The second problem is that, while the government 'is passing the hot potato' between the government and the authorities, there are students in the school for which the first period is ending and who have not had classes in condition, and that cannot be. We had this conversation at the beginning of the last school year. We repeat it again now in worse conditions, because however, the problem has not been solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u56	However, it is in the competences, it is the responsibility of the government to resolve the problem in good time, to resolve it now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u58	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, Portaria No 272 -A / 2017 has already tried to shape the ratios according to the various needs of each school. But the best demonstration of how absolutely vital decentralization in this area was precisely the description that Mrs Deputies had made. It is that no one is better than an authority, a municipality can actually measure the ratios according to the specific needs of that territory, of that population, of the composition of the educational community. No one is better than a municipality can do - because, since it is close, it can respond effectively and in good time to the actual needs of each of the schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in relation to everything you have said, being entirely in accordance with your assumptions, I am radically disagreed with the conclusion. It is that their assumptions can only lead to a conclusion: decentralization is even the best way to deal with and resolve, with quality and efficiency, the management of these school needs. Finally, returning to your initial question, it is true that we are still short of the desirable in terms of collective bargaining. It is true that we have not yet reached the number of workers covered before the crisis. But it is also true that between 2015 and 2019 it doubled the number of workers covered by collective bargaining. It is this rhythm that we have had over the past four years and that we must continue to have over the next four years, because, if so, we will not only recover how we will overcome, with updated collective conventions, a harmonious regulation of working relations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u59	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, our position on wages is known and clear. We even consider the wage enhancement of Portuguese workers to be a national emergency. An emergency that requires, as the CFP has defended, the general increase in wages for all workers, the valuation of people and careers, with a significant increase in the average wage, the increase of the national minimum wage to €850 and the progressive convergence with the euro area's average wage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u61	The national situation and the future of the country place this need, such as a policy capable of ensuring full employment and its stability and labour law that defends and extends the rights of workers and closes the door to widespread precariousness. What the Government announces in this regard is beyond what is necessary and possible. Our proposal is perfectly comportable by the Portuguese economy and would be a stimulus to its modernization. The Government's proposal is clearly insufficient — it is enough to remember that we will remain even further distant, in cash, from the minimum wage of our main trading partners, insufficient to achieve the objectives announced, in particular to eradicate the poverty of those who work, not only in terms of the recovery of the national minimum wage, but also in terms of creating the conditions for the general recovery of wages and job creation. The dynamisation of the collective contract referred to here today, which the Government announces to promote, will remain for the mere proclamations of intentions if it does not move forward with the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, in particular that of the lapse of collective bargaining. It is because, Mr Prime Minister, "he does not face the burden" when the government recently approved the expiry of the collective contract and, after two months, he says that, yes, sir, we will value the collective contract. By the way, since we are talking about income policy, today we became aware of the value of October inflation. Maintaining the current law on updating reforms, which the Government does not want to change, the expected increase for minimum reforms will be 0,8 %. A €400 reform would have an increase of only € 3. We need to change the law and make more substantial use of reforms and pensions if we really want to fight poverty in Portugal! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u63	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all we fully agree with the objective of overall wage improvement. Therefore, we distinguished the increase in the national minimum wage and the clear appreciation of the entry maturity of all qualified young people, whether they are licensed, have attended the TeSP(professional higher technical courses) or have a professional certification. Secondly, there must be a general agreement on income policy which can allow for a general recovery of wages throughout the legislature—we agree with this objective. And it is a goal that must be anchored in what is the economic sustainability of the country and our companies. in the last legislation, we proved that it was possible at the same time to increase income and give confidence to economic agents to invest, creating more and better jobs and improving about 9 % in average wage income, in addition to an increase of 20 % in national minimum wage. Now, what we propose, in this legislature, is to go further than we have been in the previous legislature. in the previous legislation, we were close to 20 % increase in the national minimum wage. What we are now proposing is to promote an increase of 25 % of the national minimum wage. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa will be able to say that this value remains below and Mr Rui Rio will say it is beyond. It seems to us that it is reasonable in relation to what is possible to predict in the evolution of economic growth throughout this legislature, and that is why we are going to be beaten. But there is something that is indisputable: that is more than we did in the previous legislature. Thus, we could achieve a very important set of family aggregates, which today, with income still below 750 €, are in a state of poverty. As I have had the opportunity to mention, this is the case of a couple in which only one of the members works 100 % of the time, it is the case of a single parent family with one child, it is the case of a couple, in which each one works only 67 % of the time, with two children. What we know today is that the most decisive factor in combating poverty at work is no longer even in the national minimum wage variable but, rather, in the time of each one's work, that is, in intensity, in the fight against precariousness. And this fight against precariousness is absolutely decisive, because if there are people today, earning the national minimum wage, currently in the 600 €, with a poverty threshold in the 467 €, which are in poverty, it is not because of the value of the national minimum wage, it is because they do not have stable employment throughout the year. And this fight against precariousness is as or more priority than fighting for the improvement of wage. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that we agree that it is essential to eradicate poverty among the elderly. There is a dimension in pensions, and it is very positive that, in 2020 — and for the first time in our history for the third consecutive year — we will have real increases in pensions for the generality of pensioners under this formula of social security reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the commitment we have in the Government's Programme to combat poverty among the elderly is to raise the solidarity complement for the elderly to the poverty threshold to ensure that, by the end of the legislature, no elderly person, regardless of the value of his or her pension, falls short of the poverty threshold. This is the goal we propose. And this is what we need to focus on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u64	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would just like to say that the definition of a fair wage can never be measured between the bottle of this party and that of that party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u66	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u67	...but yes, depending on the interests and the reason he assists the worker. [[PCP applause.]] A second question, Prime Minister, has to do with the current situation of public services, which is inseparable from the problems with which their professionals are debating themselves — in health, in education, in justice, in the security forces — which, I would say, are very serious. Now this government must take these problems into account and must not continue to « push them with the belly ». Listen to these professionals and look for solutions, taking into account the size of the problem. For lack of time to deal with this issue now, we will return to it later. The first question I would like to ask you has to do with the situation of public health services, the problems that remain as a result of insufficient investment, particularly for the hiring of professionals. We've seen this concern for a long time. Thousands of professionals are missing — doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, operational and technical assistants. Mr. Prime Minister, the transfer of services and closures is not resolved by a process of concentration of services, sometimes in units that are ten miles away. The case of the closure of Garcia de Orta's pediatric urgency is an unacceptable example, which may have adverse consequences for children's lives. There are services in which some of the professionals are exhausted from so much work for so few professionals. Even last week we visited the IPO, having been told that 300 professionals are missing. There are professionals who engage and strive, but the effort they make is then confronted with professional and wage devaluation. Mr. Prime Minister, the question I want to ask you is this: when is the solution to these problems? It is that doing nothing means the end of the SNS, in time. About two months after the opening of the school year, we are confronted, every day, with demonstrations of educational action assistants, parents and students who are tired of waiting for the Ministry of Education to put the workers needed for their normal functioning in schools. There are services that do not open for lack of assistants, surveillance that is not done in recreation, children with special educational needs who stay at home because in some schools there are no assistants to accompany them. The report by the Federation of Workers' Unions of Public Administration is publicly reported that more than 5,000 educational assistants will be missing in public schools. But it is not just the assistants and other education technicians who are missing in schools. A few days ago, there were still more than 10 000 students lacking at least one teacher, because they were about to fill hundreds of hours. And, see, Mr. Prime Minister, we had a computer teacher with 34 classes, that is, with more than 800 students.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u68	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u69	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. I end with this question: when will the solution of these problems be solved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u71	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, staff shortages have been recognized and therefore a very great effort has been made in all sectors to recover the numerous staff shortages. In the field of health alone, in net terms, more than 12 000 professionals have entered the service in the last four years. We must act at different levels. We need to improve the conditions for the training of specialists, for example, and for this reason a competition is open for 200 new trainers, so that it can increase the number of situations in which the Medical Order recognizes that there is appropriateness, thus enabling the number of doctors to increase the number of training specialists. As you know, the opening of a competition for 1830 new specialists, but 467 were left out for lack of recognition of fitness, not of their own, but of those who could ensure training. Therefore, the first question to be resolved is to extend the basis of training. Secondly, we have to extend the possibility of competitions, but in Garcia de Orta, for example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u72	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u73	Mr. President, I conclude now. in Garcia de Orta, I said, there have been successive contests where there have not been a sufficient number of competitors. Finally, there is another fundamental issue, which goes not only through concentration or more efficient management of emergencies, but also through the deconcentration for primary health care of many of the services that are being done in the emergencies of Garcia de Orta and that all physicians recognize that, with advantage, they could be done at the level of primary health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u74	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u75	What is being worked, either with the municipality of Almada, either with the municipality of Seixal, or with the respective ACES (grouping of health centres), is the way to improve primary health care and increase the period of care, both in the Sixal and in Almada, to reduce the pressure on Garcia de Orta until midnight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u76	by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on this fortnightly debate. I brought us the theme of income. We'll be there, but I'd like to start with another subject, because Mr. Prime Minister made an announcement that can't go blank. Today, by decree, Mr. Prime Minister ended with all the retentions, or, to use a more current Portuguese, he ended with lead up to 9. year. Mr Prime Minister announced in Parliament that up to 9. the year, all students are automatically past.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u78	Pass, save me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u79	In fact, when we read in the Government Programme what Mr. Prime Minister called 'Educationers' as a 'non-retention plan', we were concerned that this could be dealt with. That is why we said that last week and that is why the Minister of Education will have to come to Parliament to explain the request of the CDS. Mr Prime Minister, I hope you will seriously reconsider this measure, because I have heard here saying that, in this matter as in other matters, one should not legislate by resorting to the common sense, but rather by resorting to good information and informed decisions, then determining the end of lead by decree is a measure without any sense, neither common nor any other. And I explain why: this is the government that had already finished the exams until 9. the year—until 9. There are no exams in the year! — and now there are administrative passages and mandatory passages. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this means up to 9. the year, nothing and no one is evaluated. And this is wrong for two reasons. First of all, it is wrong for a matter of common sense, because the objective of the school and the educational system is what students learn. Passing or not passing is a symptom and we have to act in the cause, that is, students should pass when they learn. And the school performs its function when the students learn. Removing the symptom without trying to eliminate the cause is wrong. Secondly, because of philosophy and a matter of good information, it is important to remember that Portugal is one of the countries where the socio-economic profile of students is more definer of school success, which means that the social elevator is broken and that the school does not fulfil its function of restoring equality between students who come from more disadvantaged families and students who come from less disadvantaged families. Mr. Prime Minister, decreeing the passage of all is to give up these students who come from more disadvantaged families and to whom the school is not looking. So, the first question I ask you, Prime Minister, is this: will you or will you not rethink this absurd measure? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u80	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u81	Mr President, Madam Member, first of all, it is not worth threatening with the coming here of the Minister of Education, because the coming of the members of the Government to Parliament is not done under police co-operation! It is our duty to come here, and we do so gladly, because this is the normal practice of democratic debate. So it's not a threat! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister will come here and the honourable Member will have the opportunity to realize that there are no oral decrees and that, therefore, I do not produce any decree here today. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u82	But it seemed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u83	But I would very much like to welcome the fact that, now, the honourable Member is concerned about equality and the replacement of the social elevator, after being elected on the basis of a programme that promised that those who had no notes to enter university could pay their place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u85	If Mrs. Deputy can't answer, lead!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u86	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u87	Mr President, I very much appreciated Mr. Prime Minister's rhetorical exercise, but I did not make a threat. The coming of the Minister for Education has already been approved. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd just like to know, because I didn't understand, whether you're going to rethink the measure or if it's still so, that is, if all the students are past until 9. year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u88	The CDS is past!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u89	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to try to say this in a polite way: what is written in the Government Programme is that we will create a non-retention plan to promote the educational success of each student. It is not to ensure that students pass by without knowing or to ensure that they finish school without having learned, it is to create the opportunity for everyone to actually be able to know. It was only the honourable Member who had reconsidered that she was, by the way, no longer a defender that it was not necessary to learn enough to pay in order to reach higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u91	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u92	Mr President, Prime Minister, rhetorics based on imaginary accusations may use them as often as you understand why I will not answer. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] I just wanted you to tell me what is the difference between your non-retention plan and a plan that already exists to promote school success. It is that your non-retention plan is for all students to pass, without more, to the 9th. year. Right?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u93	That's what the honourable Member says! Where is that written?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u94	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the difference is precisely the development of this programme. I recall, in fact, that the CDS started the previous legislation exactly in the same tone, in defense of the exams and how the evaluation was fundamental to knowing who has merit and who does not have and even to sham those who did not learn without having the best chance to learn what he did not learn and to be able to continue successfully educationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we do is we continue exactly with the same policy, which has produced good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u96	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u97	Mr Prime Minister, however, with all courtesy, I remain on the question: up to 9. the year, can there continue to be student retentions? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u98	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I see that it is difficult to read the Government's programme, I leave a copy of the Journal of News, where not only the good results we have achieved with the measures we have already taken, in particular with the elimination of the examinations introduced by the Government of Exa, but also to demonstrate the positive results of the educational success programmes and also to anticipate how the measures we now announced go along with this sequence, in order to encourage the achievement of better educational results for all children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u100	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u101	Mr President, in order not to be accused of being rude, I will abstain from continuing to repeat the question, but the truth is that the Prime Minister does not want to answer. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] She doesn't want to answer because she's uncomfortable! in reality, he wants to end the lead, but pretending he didn't. I got it, Prime Minister! Speaking in terms of income, Mr Prime Minister said here, and well, he wanted — and I quote - even though in colour — « a more equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth». Given that the tax burden has increased in the years of its government, that means that the State has had a greater share of the wealth created, that is, that most of the fruits of economic growth have remained for the state and for the tax machine. Now, Mr President, you may think that this is a more equitable distribution of economic growth, but I think it is a less equitable distribution of economic growth. I think the normal thing is that the fruits of economic growth remain with the private initiative, with the families and with the people who have worked to produce it and, therefore, in the area of income, what I would like to ask you is whether, at last, this time, it will reduce the tax burden, reduce taxes. Now, I repeat a question which I have had the opportunity to ask you about another matter and which has to do with the inclusion, which is now possible. So when the government says it's going to walk into IRS, I think what it means, translating, is that it's going to make the enclave compulsory for a series of incomes. The question, very direct and simple, is this, Prime Minister: how many Portuguese will pay more taxes at the IRS headquarters, only and only because of this measure, imagining that they still have the same incomes. This measure is, yes, an increase in taxes for many Portuguese, and I have to tell you, Prime Minister, that from the point of view of the CDS, what would make sense was that the Portuguese who pay IRS paid less and we will not be discussing an increase measure of IRS for many families. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u102	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I have already said, reading the Government's programme: "To create a plan of non-retention in basic education, working intensively and differently with students who reveal the most difficulties. » It is not therefore an administrative passage, Mrs Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u104	You treat, you treat!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u105	... it is, on the contrary, to demand a more intensive and differentiated work to whom, revealing difficulties in the educational process, must have the opportunity — and we cannot give up ensuring — that we can achieve the educational success that will condition the whole future of your life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of inclusiveness, the Government's programme is also clear, and in due course we will have discussions on the right measures. In fact, I've had a lot of fun...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u106	Good! We don't want Mr. Sad Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u107	... to see the speculation, not only of Mrs. Member, but also of consulting companies that produce graphics and paintings, explaining who will pay more and who will pay less, not on the basis of any concrete proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u108	That's why I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u109	... or in any concrete data, but simply making a political gesture to the Portuguese right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u110	Who less pays are the friends of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u111	On behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mr André Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u112	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the VOX was one of the winning parties of the Spanish elections this Sunday. Much of the dynamics of VOX were born and resided in the provinces of Murcia, where he won the elections, and Almeria, where he stayed second. But, after all, what is the situation in these Spanish provinces? Proliferation of greenhouses, flows of immigration under precarious conditions, often in illegal situations and even slavery. In the name of economic growth, the governments of Spain have done nothing over the years and social tensions have gained relevance, fed by the well-known strategy to put everyone against and by narratives that exploit feelings of dissatisfaction and insecurity. All this, Mr. Prime Minister, should call us for a reflection on the social and environmental exploitation that is happening in the Costa Vicentina, the Portuguese Almeria. Two weeks ago, a resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted establishing a special regime applicable to the Mira River Perimeter ( PRM ). This resolution is worth very little: it does not regulate activity, it does not have compatibility measures with protected areas, it does not restrict methods of cultivation or use of water, nor does it use fertilizers and pesticides. Worse : to resolve the issue of temporary workers housing, the installation of mass containers will be allowed for a period of 10 years. Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese State cannot institutionalize people's contentorization. This is in full compliance with the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), for whom the housing of workers is the same as the storage of agricultural bees. In Odemira, in the village of São Teotonio, between 2017 and 2019, there were 8,000 residence permits, without there having been a strengthening of public services, finding inability to respond to health centres, social security, finance or the court, questioning good practices for the integration of communities. Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of the territorial cohesion and well-being of the population, we ask what urgent measures the Government will take to ensure adequate social responses to the population reality of this region and to the protection of these workers. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u113	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u114	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, as regards the body of the resolution of the Council of Ministers, the first step is the significant reduction in the area of the Perimeter de Rega do Mira — it can be occupied by stoves, high tunnels, tunnels and stoves — which has a maximum of 40 %, when the percentage was 80 % earlier. I know that there has even been some confusion in public opinion, but the associationZERO itself has already made a statement that it has been wrong and that the resolution of the Council of Ministers actually reduces by half, and does not increase, the areas available for this type of occupation. Secondly, the resolution went on to redefinite the Mira Rega Perimeter in order to disaffect areas of greater environmental interest and sensitivity. Thirdly, the resolution has an annex, which is of the greatest importance in answering the questions it has raised, because it has well defined the conditions that all temporary accommodation facilities have to meet. They must be equipped with water supply, drainage and collection systems of household waste water, electricity and telecommunications, and the conditions for the maximum limit of persons per unit of accommodation, dormitories, sanitary facilities, living spaces, meals, outdoor spaces, heating and air conditioning, access to family-language television, and even internet connection. The reading of this annex is of the greatest importance to realize that, effectively, through these conditions, we ensure that the accommodation of people is not a storage space of agricultural bays. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u115	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the reduction of the area of the Mira Kingdom Perimeter, it exists in theory, but no one knows and is not public about the areas relating to the stoves and the possibility of their future deployment. It was important that the Government could clarify and clarify the questions that the NAP has asked on this matter. With regard to the annex, we read it and, for us, what it comes to do is institutionalize precarious housing and people's contenting. I'd like to bring another subject, Prime Minister. Currently, half of the Algarve, the Sotavento, is in a state of extreme drought, being the rest of the territory in a state of severe drought. The level of the dam of Odeleite is one third of its capacity and, in the region of Castro Marim, 20 villages are already being supplied by autotanks, because underground reserves are already exhausted. By analyzing what is happening in the region, in terms of efficient water use, for example, an ongoing project for the expansion of a golf course in Tavira, which will consume 400 000 m3 of Odeleite dam water annually, or another project for the production of avocados, a water-simmering culture, which has increased uncontrolledly in recent years. In line with the negative positions of the CAP, the President of the House of Castro Marim believes that a new dam must be constructed so that water will not be lacking in the future. Mr. Prime Minister, in a climate crisis context, in which the scientific community tells us that there will be a reduction of 83% of rainfall, rain, in the Algarve and where there are populations that have no water reserves to drink or to produce essential food, it seems to us entirely irresponsible to talk about building dams, when they do not intervene in economic activities such as the Gulf or the production of avocado, in a territory that is in extreme or severe drought. Mr. Prime Minister, with regard to responsible use of water, in a context of adaptation to climate change, in addition to the impacts of the expansion of intensive olive and livestock production, which we have both brought about the debate, we asked what the Government thinks about the expansion of golf courses and the uncontrolled production of avocados in the Algarve, a territory sunny by extreme or severe drought. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u118	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the issue of water is not conjuncural or structural and therefore does not resolve or respond to each year, but does comply with existing planning plans. What needs to be respected is the planning plans and efficient water management plans, with the set of measures that have been adopted and which, in particular, municipalities can use under the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) to improve the efficient use of water. That is what must be done in urban soil and that must also be done in rural soil. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u119	To put questions on behalf of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u120	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has reaffirmed that income policy is one of the priorities of this government, but we believe that this priority should begin to be materialized by now. however, Prime Minister, judging by the proposal he announced today regarding the national minimum wage for 2020, we consider that it begins with little in the statement of this priority. A minimum wage of €635 in 2020 remains unfair, low and above all does not allow people to escape the risk of poverty. However, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to have the Government guarantee that there will not be any counterpart to employers for the increase in the national minimum wage, either through the TSU (unique social rate) or through any other instrument that pushes these costs to the taxpayer. Then, Prime Minister, the situation of public services in general, and in particular in health and education, which are, in fact, two fundamental pillars of the social state, is very unrecommendable and the situation tends to worsen if the government does not start looking at public services with 'eyes to see' and with the utmost urgency. We therefore leave this alert, because it is indeed necessary to look at public services, which tend to get into a truly unsustainable situation. I have two more questions to ask you, Prime Minister. One of them is about Montijo airport, not to tell you about the environmental disaster that represents this decision, not to tell you about the impacts that this will cause on the people's health level if the airport goes ahead, but to tell you about a legal requirement. Mr. Prime Minister, the law obliges the construction of an airport to be dependent on a prior assessment of viability by the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ), which is also the result of Decree-Law No 186/2007. On the preliminary assessment of viability that is made by ANAC, Article 5 ( 3 ) tells us. this legal diploma which « constitutes the basis for refusal to remove the absence of the favourable opinion of all municipal chambers of the municipalities potentially affected ». Now, Prime Minister, as it is public, not all municipal chambers gave a favorable opinion to the construction of Montijo airport, which means that the regulator is without any room for manoeuvre to be able to defer the requirement for viability for the construction of Montijo airport. Since this act of the regulator is a related administrative act, the Government will naturally have to comply with that decision of ANAC. That is, without the favourable opinion of all potentially affected cameras, ANAC will not be able to give ‘green light’ to the construction of the airport, and, as the Chambers of Moita and Seixal have shown to be unfavorable, this means that there will be no airport in Montijo. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: how is the government going to "shock this boot"? I don't even think of the government altering the Decree-Law as a way of passing over the chambers and populations. So I wonder how the government will respond to this problem. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, about lithium, we have heard the government talk a lot about the subsoil wealth, but we have heard the government talk a little about land and even water wealth. As it is done in the open sky, the exploitation of lithium in the basement naturally causes strong impacts on both soil and water levels. I remember that in Montalegre, only the prospect—and we're just talking about the prospect—has already dried up three springs and left the village of Rebordelo without water. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether you think soil and water should also be considered in this equation or whether we should just look at the basement. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u122	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the first question, there is no counterpart to the update of the national minimum wage for this year or for the subsequent years, which was also expressly assumed by all the social partners. With regard to Montijo Airport, Mr Deputies, the country lost the opportunity to have the best solution five years ago and from there we ran after the damage. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] I said "five years ago" because it was the last time we could have had the best solution. From there, we run after the damage. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] This means that we cannot go into permanent discontinuities about a process that has been dragging on for more than 50 years. So when I arrived at the government, I understood that the most responsible attitude was not to reopen the process, but to continue the decision that had already been taken by the previous government, the contract that had been signed with ANA (Portugal Airports) in the context of the privatisation process, because, if we did not, we not only called into question the continuity of the State as, above all, we would permanently compromise the resolution of a problem which is an emergency today. contrary to what some said, the studies based on the urgency of the construction of the Alcochete solution did not present megalomanous numbers, in fact, are numbers that have already been much exceeded by reality, which shows that today we are very late. [[PSD protests.]] So we have to comply with all the legal rules and they will all be met. Now, the Country and the Region need an urgent response on this airport capacity and the regulator will surely take the decision to take, as we will also take the necessary decision,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... depending on how ANA scrupulously fulfils all the conditions imposed on it by the environmental impact assessment of which it was objected. Finally, on the question of lithium, its exploitation is subject to environmental assessment and will be carried out according to the project that is presented. When a project is presented, it will be submitted to environmental assessment, and then we can explain what measures must be taken in each specific case to allow or not such exploitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Carlos Silva and Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u123	To put questions, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u124	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, once again we see a number of illusionism made here in this House. Mr Prime Minister quoted the National Institute of Statistics, which reported in May this year that we have the greatest tax burden ever. I don't know if Ronaldo, Messi or João Félix of Finance is here today, I am indifferent, what I want to ask you is whether you are in a position to guarantee the Portuguese that it will not increase indirect taxes during this legislature. Otherwise, Mr Prime Minister, it is not worth being increasing wages and giving them and those who will then always come out of the same way — to the Portuguese who put gas every day, to those who have to make envelopes and to those who have to make their tax declarations. He also said, Prime Minister, that Portuguese teachers who had no placement could emigrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u125	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u126	Yes, Mr. Prime Minister. [[I didn't say!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u127	Yes, yes, yes! I said, I said! Mr. Prime Minister said Portuguese teachers without placement could emigrate! [[PS Protests and PSD and CDS-PP counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker finish his speech. Then there will be an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u129	Portugal has the sixth highest youth unemployment rate in the European Union. It is the same thing as looking at these young people, who are here with us today, and telling them to emigrate! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u130	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u131	So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you directly what specific measures you have to bring down a Portuguese shame that is called young unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u133	Mr President, Mr President, no, I will not give any guarantee that indirect taxes will not rise during this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u134	Of course! Neither the indirect nor the direct!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u135	I will even tell you more: I will not commit myself with 1 cent that it is of tax benefit to reduce taxation on fossil fuels, when the world has to mobilize for a fight without obstacles to climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to inform the honourable Member that our tax burden of 37, 2 % is lower than the euro area average, which is 41, 7%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I believe you confused me with the Prime Minister who made this suggestion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u136	Mr André Ventura, from arrive, continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am not mistaken, no. Look at the news. Maybe he's missing memory, but look at what came out.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u138	What news?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u139	Mr. Prime Minister, he talked about family incomes and I understand that: he passed from a family government to the largest in the history of Portugal. What I want to ask you is whether it's normal to defend the family and, as we know today, be the cops paying for the handcuffs and bulletproof vests. What I want to ask you is if this is to defend the family. What I want to ask you is what this government is going to do about aggression — shameful! — which occurred in Borba to firefighters who defend us every year. And I would like to ask the Minister of Internal Administration — who, apparently, is not here today, nor does anyone know where he is — because the government does not actually take action on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the police to buy handcuffs, vests and pepper gas should shame any government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u142	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u143	Mr President, honourable Member, that is not the reality. I recommend that you change your information about security forces, because the informant you are using is very bad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u144	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u145	Mr President, I will make good use of this minute and a half that has cost so much to conquer, I must say, with your help. Prime Minister has already indicated that the 2020 budget will include proposals on the inclusion of incomes which have so far been subject to special rates. Now, a Portuguese who today has a monthly salary of €630 and who receives a small income of €50 per month, would see — with the simple envelopment, it is not complicated — to pass the IRS that pays from €168 to €269 and 4 cents, calculations of such consultants who are at the service of the right and, of course, arithmetic is also at the service of the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u146	The origin of counterfeiting is explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u147	But this is easy to confirm on any simulator. What I have just mentioned is only a 60% increase in this Portuguese IRS, which, by the way, for the PS, is part of the rich. I don't know if this is the income policy the PS wants for the country. 15 days ago, in the debate of the Government's programme, Mr Prime Minister escaped to a question I asked him and now I will repeat that he is sure that he will not run away this time: can he now confirm and assure the Portuguese that he is not going to make a global tax increase in Portugal in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u149	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, the Government's programme, as the PS Electoral Programme has already provided, provides that there is a progressive inclusion of income. It has never been said that in the 2020 budget there would be any measure in terms of inclusiveness and much less was said what kind of income would be included and how. Therefore, any speculation or exercise of figuring like the one who did here is no longer based on anything but in pure imagination. This is because the envelopment can start from a certain level of income and exempt such a woman who earns 630 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u150	And the 100,000 that took the BCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u151	... or you can start with incomes above a certain value and do not cover the incomes of 50 € that you mentioned here. That is why it is so pathetic the exercise done by consultants such as, you will excuse, the example you gave here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So it's not worth speculating. When we have to do the debate, let us do it on the basis of a concrete proposal, and that proposal must come up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u152	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u153	Mr President, Prime Minister, whether pathetic or not, the question has already served to clarify that it will not be this kind of enclave that we are going to discuss within a month. I would like to ask you another question, Prime Minister. His Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration will propose incentives to assist public officials. Mr. Prime Minister, do you think it's fair to reward the mere fulfilment of a duty of assiduity? Is it fair to introduce more discrimination between public and private workers, to join the minimum wage, which is already different, to the weekly working time, which is already different, to the age for early retirement, which is already different, to access to health, which is already different, through ADSE? And do you think it is fair that, if the incentive is on additional holiday days, they are all taxpayers to pay another privilege for a group of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this time I was quite surprised because I thought that the honourable Member, in his liberal spirit, was one of those who understood that in good human resources management there must be not only a guaranteed wage, as best possible, as good performance should be rewarded and disincentived bad performance. Therefore, I find it very strange that you raise your voice here to defend a fixed vision of the management of human resources of the Public Administration, treating everything equally when performance is unequal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. Member, after all, I am beginning to regret saying that we finally had a truly assumed liberal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u156	It's a retouched version of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u157	...and not those ashamed to whom the PSD has used us. But, by the way, you're getting a fake liberal faster than anyone trying to escape. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u158	To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira from the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u159	Mr President, I begin by greeting your wonderful democratic spirit. Mr. Prime Minister, I begin by saying the following: one cannot speak of national minimum wage without talking about love, especially because politics without love is trade and a minimum order of 600 euros and such is a minimum order of absolute dislove by taxpayers, voters, and so on. I also want to point out that the minimum order of 750 € can never be a minimum order of ultimate objective, but of initial objective. The minimum order of 900 €, in addition to being a tool of social justice, is also an act of love, and it is in this love that we need to insist. We can't be thinking it's useful and great a minimal order for others with whom we were unable to survive, and I know exactly what it's like to survive with the national minimum order.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u160	Madam Member, I thank you for your references. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u161	Mr President, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, I disagree. The updating of the minimum wage has nothing to do with love, it has to do with a question of justice and an economic policy measure. It's not love. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And 750 € is not the final goal, it is the objective of this Legislation. This objective must be pursued in view of the economic conditions of the country, of companies and the need to combat poverty at work. That is why we are not just proposing a mere update objective taking into account the forecast of economic growth, productivity and inflation, because we would be far behind — at €672. The reason why the objective we propose is twice as much of what would result from productivity and inflation is precisely because we have the notion that it is of the greatest importance, from the point of view of social justice, the eradication of poverty, the reduction of inequalities and from the point of view of the overall functioning of the economy, let us go further. So that is what we intend to do. If it is great, no, it is not great, but it is what, under the conditions of the country, under the conditions of our companies, in the diversity of economic sectors, seems to us to be able to achieve and have as a realistic objective. Does this prevent you from going further? No, because company agreements and collective bargaining can go further...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u162	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u163	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, business agreements and collective bargaining can go further, the social partners can go further and we ourselves, if there were economic conditions, which we are not in a position to predict, could also go further. But there is one thing I am sure: from here to four years we have not achieved the final goal, from here to four years we will be starting a new goal for the legislature that will be followed, because, after a legislature, another legislation comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u164	To conclude the requests for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, by the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Politics only makes sense when we respond to people's specific lives, and that is what we do when we increase the national minimum wage. Valuing wages, and especially the minimum wage, is an act of deep justice, which responds to the improvement of the lives of those who work and which balances the profits of companies with the incomes of work. This is the centre of progressive governance and at the service of people, that is the path of the Socialist Party! We are not neutral against the alternatives that are disputed in this House and in the Country. If today we are discussing the valuation of incomes, rather than wage devaluation, increase in wages, instead of cuts in wages, advances, instead of retreats, the Portuguese know that this is only possible because we have a government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Two weeks ago, in the debate of the Government Programme, the leader of the major opposition party said, and I quote, « if we look at the previous legislation and the text of this Government Programme, we can hardly expect much better ». We can hardly expect anything much better! Open... Dr. Rui Rio, Portuguese workers certainly disagree with you. Let us ask the Portuguese workers that in the previous legislation they had an increase of 20 % of the minimum wage, against the opinion of their party—and now the CDS—if they have not improved their lives, if they have not remained more productive and if they do not recognize the path we have made, and yes, today they can be sure of more improvements and increases, because that is what we will do until we reach the 750 € at the end of this legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Currently, there are 720 000 workers covered by the minimum wage and they have no doubt as to what PS governance has meant in the last four years, every month, month to month, euro to euro, from €505 to €600 per month. But you know more: you know that, with the announced proposal today, your wages will continue to increase, because the Socialist Party will propose an increase to €635 next year but also an increase in the following year, in the following year and still in the following year, increasing them more €150 in four years. And this is only possible because there is a government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, this is not the case with all parties. We know that there are parties that do not like the minimum wage, we know that there are parties that, when they govern, hinder their increases, we know that there are parties that, when they are in opposition, challenge each improvement and always find that the minimum wage will be harmful to the economy, but certainly they themselves would never be able to live with their value. They are the followers of the invisible hand of the market without rules, as long as the jungle is for others. Not us! We in the Socialist Party contest this vision of salvation if anyone can, of the deresponsibility of the state, because we believe that the problems of one are the problems of all,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that the minimum wage is essential to establish minimum dignity in the remuneration of work, to combat poverty among workers and to promote the general increase in wages, which has also been verified. We do all this with the credits of those who resisted the policy of fear and the prophecies of certain Nostradamus on the right over a hecatomb in the economy and in the employment that would come with the increase of the minimum wage, but, after all, what came up was an economy above all forecasts and unemployment falling to a minimum of 16 years. This is the result of our policy, it is not ideology, it is the reality that you deny. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that there are Portuguese people who still have more than a month for minimum wages at least, but with the Socialist Party this salary will get closer and closer to each other's needs. I would like to know whether it is important to continue this course, in a framework of social dialogue, and how these increases are important not only for workers but also for the dynamisation of our entire economic fabric. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u166	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u167	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I have already had the opportunity to say that this is a path that we must make in social dialogue, in collective bargaining and in social dialogue. in Portuguese society, it is essential that the spirit of commitment is not exhausted in the parliamentary space, but, on the contrary, it extends to society as a whole. At the same time, we must exercise where the State has to continue to clean up its public accounts and where companies have to continue to strengthen themselves and have the ability to invest. The investment effort in the coming years will be absolutely decisive in meeting the goals of the climate transition, for what needs to be done to follow the transition to digital society, and therefore this is a huge effort. At the same time, we must make a collective effort to improve the income of all Portuguese, Portuguese who depend on social benefits, Portuguese who depend on pension income and, above all, Portuguese who depend on their wages. Therefore, this collective effort requires a compatibility of measures in which nothing sacrifice anything. Of course, in abstract terms, we could set an unlimited minimum wage, but this would have an immediate effect on several sectors of activity, on many businesses and on employment. However, the success of a good mix of economic measures has allowed us, during the last legislative year, to have had more growth and for the first time three consecutive years of convergence with the European Union since we joined the euro, and, unlike the most pessimistic forecasts, either next year or next year, we will continue to converge with the European Union, which has not taken place since the beginning of the century, while we have had a reduction to half the unemployment rate, accompanied by an increase in the active population, where the migration balance has been positive again and where we have not only recovered 20 % in the minimum wage as a 9 % increase in the average wage in our country. This is what we've achieved over these four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But at the same time, we were able to improve social policies, not only with the social benefits that already existed but creating new ones, such as the social benefit for inclusion, with a very significant increase, for example, of family allowance, with the highest step over €50 to around €150, with a gigantic increase in the income available to families through the Programme of Support for the Reduction of the Public Transport Tariff, in which, to have a notion, there are families who, living, for example, in Setubal or Mafra, save, per month, 300 € only at the cost of transport, when the overall increase in the minimum wage, over the last legislation, was €95 and thus, only in a month and at a moment, there was a saving of €300. And we also have, for example, the savings resulting from the freeness of school textbooks. Now, it is with this joint action between state, companies and workers that we can effectively continue to successfully pursue this virtuous trajectory, where the different objectives of economic policy have all been met. It is that, contrary to what some believed, it is not possible to fulfill completely none of them without the others, and each of them power, maximize, the opportunities to fulfill all the others. It is this path that we have to pursue, because it is important not to forget that the great contribution to reducing the deficit did not have to do with the captives. The reduction of the deficit relates, on the one hand, to the recovery of our country's international credibility, which allowed us to save about EUR 2000 million per year in debt interest, so that we can invest in the strengthening of the National Health Service both without having to increase taxes and without having to increase the deficit, and, on the other hand, it has to do with the great creation of employment, which has not only saved us from transfers, through the unemployment allowance, as it has enabled us, above all, to increase State resources by improving contributions to social security, which continue to rise to 8 % — if we have gained 22 years of stability in our social security system due to this — and at the same time, through the improvement of wages. It is this virtuous path of combining all of these objectives that we have to pursue, with stability, over the next four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u168	The PS Parliamentary Group continues to speak, so Mrs Marina Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We had the opportunity to hear - say that the generalized improvement of wages is a priority of the XXII Constitutional Government. In fact, it could not be otherwise, after four years of replacement and increase in incomes, in general dignifying the workers and the Portuguese, and improving the income and life of the Portuguese people. We were also told by the Prime Minister that the Government is working on two fronts: continuing the sustained increase in national minimum wage and the construction of a comprehensive income policy agreement. Well, it's about this second point that I want to look at. Today we have seen an apparent parliamentary consensus in the definition of a wage policy worthy of all workers, and it is always pleasing that we realize that some of these political forces, those that said it would be impossible to reconcile, on the one hand, the growth of the economy and, on the other hand, the improvement of the living conditions of the Portuguese, have changed, however, their speech and only demand the need of the government to move from mere intentions to concrete proposals. Good to see you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this important debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because, if the minimum wage has a central role in reducing inequalities and promoting the social state, the average wage also has a central role in promoting the qualification of our workers, who are the main active part of the economy, also improving the overall income of our families. Complementing more employment with better employment is the basis of a more fair, balanced and dignified society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u171	We therefore agree with the overall view that the Government has for the middle class, not just by means of measures, also very important, to reduce direct taxes and promote public policies with a view to affordable housing and social promotion, but also by going further and, in parallel, defending a different wage policy, based on fair value for labour income. However, this is not a path that is now taking the first steps. during the previous legislation, the average wage was evolving positively, much because of the active employment policies that allowed the net creation of jobs based on contracts without end, through the promotion of collective bargaining, particularly through the extension portals, the promotion of the Portuguese qualification program or the improvement of the economy that actually allowed better wage practices. However, it is clear that the expectation is to go further. We are still far from reaching the desired levels and agree with the Government when it aims to increase wages in order to restore the weight in GDP that they recorded before the crisis. However, in parallel with the commitment to the general increase in wages, it is important to work on responses that allow for the distinction between qualified young people and, on the one hand, to overcome asymmetries that are still too obvious in the remuneration plan, promoting greater equal pay. To promote policies for all is to recognize that in its essence the people have their own characteristics and therefore must also have different answers. That is why it is so important that we continue to work on these two pillars, either through the valorisation of our qualified young people, being able to take advantage of the investment that has been made in the qualification and, at the same time, to set up young people in Portugal, with obvious improvements to the competitiveness of their own companies, either through the effective realization of the principle of equal work, equal pay, reducing the asymmetries still existing in the remuneration plan, in particular, and above all, among women and men, and articulating with measures to reconcile professional, personal and family life. Mr Prime Minister, last week, the parties who for four years refused to follow up on key measures for more and better employment agreed, and well, in the need for wage valuation of all workers. However, in this House they showed their scepticism in relation to a set of intentions that we presented and asked for guarantees. That is why my first question is: apart from the history of measures that are already being implemented, what can we expect from the income policy agreement that you want to implement in this Parliament? Finally, and because an income policy cannot be removed from the different realities of our population, I ask you how it will enhance the creation of positive discrimination measures for groups which today have the greatest weaknesses and unjustified discrepancies in the labour market, to set our young people in Portugal and, above all, to promote effective equality of opportunity between men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u172	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u173	Mr President, Mrs Marina Gonçalves, in fact, we have to look in an integrated way at minimum wages, reconciliation of personal, professional and family life and the general increase in wages. But we also have to leave a very clear message for qualified young people, whether they are licensed, those who attended the TeSPs or those who have professional certification. This is an absolutely critical situation, because what we have seen, comparing the evolution from 2010 to 2017 - are the latest available data - is that only from 55 years of age is that the wage differential according to the qualification remains positive. from 55 years down is negative and is very negative for all those who are under 25 years of age. In 2010 the salary premium was 158 % for under 25 years. In 2017, it was at 133 % with a breakdown of 25 percentage points. This means that all the young people who are entering the labour market today, with the same level of qualification, for example, that my generation, are surely entering a much lower level of remuneration than we had. This is what we have to reverse because, first and foremost, the country's future is being decisively compromised and because it gives the wrong message that it cannot actually be fully realized from the personal and professional point of view here in Portugal. But this also means a wrong message for companies that do not understand that the best investment they can make to improve their productivity is in the qualification of their human resources. That is why we have to take this measure. If we want to effectively free ourselves forever from the development model based on low wages and we will begin to have a model of development based on a knowledge society, which places on education, training, scientific research, knowledge transfer, innovation, technological modernization, we must make this effort. We have to do with the least possible pain for as many companies as possible and we cannot give up, nor can we lose the ambition of wanting to go forward. Our convergence with the European Union cannot only be in the growth or health of our public finances; it must also be a social convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means converging with the European means of school dropout or the development of the most developed societies. It's that trajectory we have to have. Public policies are of the greatest importance here. Therefore, all those who like to diabolize the importance and weight of taxes, I would like to say that it is necessary to take into account that these taxes are what effectively enables the country to modernise itself. If we have better infrastructure today, it is because we all contribute to taxes so that the State can have them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If today we have an investment incentive programme by companies, it is because our taxes contribute to having these incentives to modernise the business fabric. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If today we have better public services in transport, education, health...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u174	We've got it! in health then! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u175	...it's because we contribute to it with our taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u176	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u177	That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, those who at the same time say that they want better education and better health with less taxes are lying to the Portuguese, since with fewer taxes they cannot have better health or better education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-13.u178	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are thus at the end of our agenda. I have to be briefed by the ladies and gentlemen. We have a plenary meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: point one, joint assessment of Petition No 507 / XIII / 3. a ( Laura Ramos et al.) — Request for the end of obstetric violence in the birth blocks of Portuguese hospitals and Resolution Projects Nos 31 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth and 40 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening care in pregnancy and childbirth. Point two: assessment of Petition No 558 / XIII / 4. a (Mónica Alexandra da Cunha dos Santos et al.) — They call for legislative amendments, particularly regarding the impartiality and independence of judicial judges, following recent events in Portuguese football club. Point three: joint assessment of Petition No 557 / XIII / 4. a (FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — for the right to defreeze the teaching careers of higher education and Lein. 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Materializes the right to a mandatory change of pay position to public higher education teachers, 56 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Clarify the system of wage progression of higher education teachers, 58 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers and 61 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers ensuring the accounting of all points obtained. Point four: joint discussion of Petition No 560 / XIII / 4. a ( Sandra Marisa Lourenço Gomes Pimenta et al.) — They request equality in the counting of former military service time and the Resolution Project No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government account for the evaluation obtained by the former military in the years in which they performed functions in the Armed Forces, after entering the Public Administration, for the purposes of the integrated management and performance assessment system in the Public Administration ( SIADAP ). Point five: joint discussion of Petition No 566 / XIII / 4. a ( Liliana Brito de Lima et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the mandatory availability of conditions for the sixth parties, for children until entry into the primary school and the Resolution Projects Nos 28 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school education establishments, 38 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adopts the recommendations of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, promoting the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children and 47 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the conditions for the effective possibility of 6th anniversary of pre-school education in the public network of the Ministry of Education. Finally, in point six, together with Petition No 503 / XIII / 3. a ( Vera Candida Pinto Gomes et al.) — They call for measures to improve the conditions for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases ( Crohn and Ulcerosa Colitis ) and Resolution Projects No. 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease, 36 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize the impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on the lives of these patients, 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases and 50 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. I wish everyone a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
