ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Let's start our morning session. [[It was 9 hours.]] It's very early, but it's not 7 hours and 10 minutes, as is shown in the room clock and so I ask that it be right as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of the Republic returned, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 311 / XIII — Approves the rules of transparency applicable to private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic. The basis for this non-promulgation is the message that I read: « Your Excellency, President of the Assembly of the Republic : I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 1369 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree under heading as follows: 1 — It is not a solution that corresponds to the imperative of transparency of a democratic state of law to act as if there were no organized pressure groups and with its duly paid representatives to influence actions or omissions of political and other public officials. This reality must therefore be legally disciplined in order to make it as transparent as possible. This is a step I have always defended and I see, with appreciation, begun to be given through this Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, as has been regulated at European level by the Interinstitutional Agreement which regulates the matter in the three main institutions of the European Union and which in 2014 deserved a favourable vote of 646 Members of all parties, including all Portuguese. 2 — However, three essential gaps justify that it cannot now proceed with its enactment. 3 — The first is not to require the declaration, for the purposes of registration, of all the interests represented, but only of the principals, which allows the representative of an interest to always invoke to be not a principal interest, which led him to pursue his activity with the political position holder or other public office. 4 — The second is the total omission in the statement of proceeds received by the register by the fact that the interest is represented. As in another legal diploma, a demanding statement is required of the financial situation of the holders of political positions and high public positions, so at least the minimum required to declare the remuneration received by the representatives registered by their activity, whether they are legal persons, should be natural persons. The same is true of the statement of the origin of the income of such activity. In fact, not even as regards legal persons is obliged to communicate their annual accounts and equity structure, and, to natural persons, the communication of taxable material related to their activity of representation of interests is imposed. 5 — Most important is the third omission. The implementation of this Decree should also include the President of the Republic, his Civil House and Military House, as well as the Representatives of the Republic in the Autonomous Regions and their respective offices. This arises from the identity of reasons and, of course, from the existing regime for the application of impediments to all holders of political positions to the President of the Republic and to the representatives of the Republic in the Autonomous Regions. It does not make sense to have such an identity as a legal regime and it does not exist for the control of representation of interests. This is also the case in Comparative Law, from the American presidentialist regime to the Austrian, which is not. The scope of this Decree should therefore be extended and specific registration should be established in the Presidency of the Republic, the same as that assigned to the Assembly of the Republic and covering the representatives of the Republic in the Autonomous Regions. 6 — In this regard, I return, without promulgation, Decree No. 311/ XIII, so that the Assembly of the Republic may, as such, carry out its review, even before the end of this legislature, taking into account the three specific objections formulated and corresponding additions suggested. Belém Palace, July 12, 2019. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa". on the first item on the agenda there is only the reading of the message by Mr President of the Republic, and there is no debate, and we now turn to the second item on the agenda with the consideration of the Report of the Second Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank. The President of the Commission, the Rapporteur and each parliamentary group are available for five minutes. Mr President of the Second Parliamentary Commission for Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : One hundred and forty-nine days after its inception, on 21 February 2019, we completed today the work of the Second Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management. It was five months of intense, hard and demanding work to fulfil a clear and precise mandate, to figure out what happened in the granting and management of the General Deposit Box credit between 2000 and 2015, which generated losses of many hundreds of millions of euros and determined a recapitalisation of 4, 9 billion euros, 3, 9 billion of which of public money. As President of this Parliamentary Inquiry Committee, my first words must be thank you. Thank you to all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome and greet the people of the coordinators. Deputies Duarte Pacheco, João Paulo Correia, Mariana Mortágua, Cecília Meireles and Paulo Sá, but also in the two Vice-Presidents, the Srs. Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade and João Pinho de Almeida. All, without exception, have been inexhaustible in cooperation, loyalty and, where necessary, in solidarity which they have given me. It was a pleasure and a privilege to have worked with everyone over these months. Thank you, too, to all those who have participated in the Commission's work and in particular to those who ensure its proper functioning and whose role does not always have due recognition. Therefore, on my behalf and on behalf of all the members of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, I should like to thank those who have worked with us, in particular by appointing Dr. Angela Dionisio, Dr. Inês Cadete and Dr. Tiago Tiburcio, as well as the technicians who have advised the Commission, Ana Cristina Carvalho and Odete Alves, whose dedication, commitment and competence deserve particular attention and recognition. [[General applause.]] And, moreover, to Drs.Catia Sofia Almeida and Paula Crespo of the Assembly Writing Division of the Republic, which were inexhaustible in fulfilling a task essential to the work of Mr. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regarding the work done, I would highlight three essential topics. First of all, I would like to point out that it was possible to collect 46 statements, 10 in writing and 36 presences of public and political officials directly or indirectly related to the activity of the General Deposit Box in the period under review, of governors and other leaders of the Banco de Portugal, of presidents of the Board of Directors, administrators and directors of the General Deposit Board, as well as holders of bodies of the institution, of governors and political officials and also of some of the biggest clients of whom the General Deposit Board is a creditor. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Commission has obtained a unique and highly relevant documentary acquis, largely thanks to the prerogatives of the new legal regime of parliamentary committees of inquiry, which allowed access to information which could only be obtained by judicial means. We have gathered and voted over a million pages of various documents, which, by their nature and characteristics, were not only essential for the work of the members of this Commission as they will now be fundamental to the investigations of the Public Prosecutor. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the Final Report, a document with 374 pages, rigorous, complete, objective and factual, which constitutes a faithful repository of information collected, facts and responsibilities, but also a serious and meaningful contribution to the debate and the necessary reforms in the area of transparency and accountability that need supervision and banking management or, in addition, the definition of the specific tasks and functions of the public bank. In this regard, as President of the Commission, I would like to leave a very special word of appreciation for the work which, in circumstances of limited urgency and time limit, was only possible for Parliamentary quality and also for the professional competence and the personal capabilities of the rapporteur, Mr João Pinho de Almeida. The mere fact that your report has been approved unanimously — if rare, if not unique — is indisputable proof of the quality and merit of your work. [[General applause.]] Clearly, Mr President, we have faced difficulties and enormous challenges in the work of this Commission. The main and perhaps most relevant challenge was never to seek to undermine the powers and mandate of this Parliamentary Commission. We have always been clear in affirming the separation of powers. Parliament does not judge, condemn, appreciate the facts and, of course, draw its conclusions. to Parliament, it is up, and it is up to, to give the Portuguese serious and clear information on the practices of granting and credit management in the General Deposit Box, to try to understand the rational decision making, to establish responsibilities in the perspective of defending the public interest. And it made it record in time, transparently, ensuring a fair treatment of all actors, favouring public interest and scrutiny to the detriment of private and corporate interests. In this regard, it is worth stressing the rigorous and substantial work of dozens of journalists who have been accompanying, on a permanent basis, and have published the work of this Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u3	I would ask you to sum up, Mr President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u4	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to thank you for your continuing support for the work of this Commission. I know that it is an institutional obligation, but the way it has done so, fully preserving the autonomy of the Commission and ensuring, where necessary, that institutional and political cooperation and solidarity are essential, deserves our respect and recognition. on our part, we feel that we have done a useful, productive, serious and committed work that has dignified the Members and Parliament. I'm adding up, it's worth it. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u5	Mr Pinho de Almeida, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am speaking now as rapporteur, of course the first words I have of thanks and the first of all is addressed to the services of this Parliament. This Committee of Inquiry worked under special conditions, needed to produce results in record time and this would not have been possible only with the work of the Members, i.e. if we had not had a competent and committed follow-up on the part of the services of the Assembly of the Republic, so that all the work could be carried out and, I must say, personally, so that there could be support for the report. Thank you all very much. Then I thank the ladies. Members, and from now on to the Bureau, in particular to the President of the Commission, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, who, with high, enormous commitment and also, because it has sometimes been necessary, with full vehemence, to ensure the dignity of the parliamentary institution, and this is very important to point out at this time. [[General applause.]] I would like to thank Vice-President Fernando Rocha Andrade, Mr Andrade. Coordinators Duarte Pacheco, João Paulo Correia, Mariana Mortágua, Paulo Sá e— allow me a special word to the coordinator of the CDS — Cecilia Meireles. I thank all the collaborators, and I stress the collaborators of the Group of Parliament of CDS Diogo Belford Henriques, Pedro Serrasqueiro and Otília Gomes, because without their work it would have been completely impossible to present the Report of this Commission. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But I also thank the support offices of the other parliamentary groups. There was a teamwork and it is fair to also point out that all parliamentary groups had the collaboration of professionals of enormous competence who greatly helped in their work. Thank you to the ladies. Journalists because, by the amplification they gave to parliamentary work, they helped to carry out the public service of clarification for the citizens. I believe that this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has made it possible to clarify the role of this parliamentary investigation system. There was time for the management of the General Deposit Board and, in the Commission of Inquiry, all the insufficiency, incompetence and possible criminal activity of that management was made clear. There was time for supervision, all omissions, all bureaucracy and all absence of what should have been the responsibility to defend good practices within the General Deposit Box. There was the time of governments, in the exercise of the shareholder function, and of little attention, or none, that gave to the Box, besides appointing the board of directors. During this period there was also Parliament's time. It was a short time ago, but the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has done a lot of work. We had many documents and many statements, but we had a complete commitment to examine them and to get what was essential for parliamentary work from there. It was a difficult mission for Parliament, a mission of enormous responsibility, but I think we can all say that we do it with dignity. Now, it's time for justice. It's time for the consequences. It is time for the facts and responsibilities that the Committee of Inquiry has decided to have the corresponding consequences in the field of justice. No one would understand that since a parliamentary inquiry ran as it did, having finished as it was finished, there was now no consequence for everything that was opened up in this Committee of Inquiry. [[CDS-PP applause.]] There was evidence of the potential practice of various types of crimes and this, in a rule of law, cannot cause indifference and cannot pass away from time. It is essential that there be justice and that such justice be speedy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was good, that it was very positive, that Parliament should end this legislation with this good example of parliamentary cooperation. As Mr President of the Commission, Mr Leite Ramos, said, it was worth it. For me, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been an honour to perform these functions. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PSD, BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u7	Let us turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating all Members, in particular Mr President and Mr Rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry on the Recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management, who also greatly appreciate the Commission support services for the work that has been carried out in recent months. Mrs. Members, this third Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box confirmed the conclusions that we had already withdrawn from previous committees of inquiry and allowed us to confirm the political responsibilities for the options that led to the Box being removed from its role as a public bank, bringing it closer to the ruinous management criteria of the private bank. See the ruinous lending operations for the purchase of shares of the BCP, in which the guarantee was the own shares. This is a very clear example of distance from what must be a public bank. The Box was subject to financing speculators such as Berardo, Manuel Fino, Goes Ferreira, and others, which were on one side of a BCP shareholder war ; it was subject to schemes promoted, in particular by Mr. José Berardo, using, at the same time, companies, foundations and associations to achieve their objectives; it was subject to substantial losses, because it accepted its own shares as collateral, still above a coverage ratio of 100 %, i.e. with all the risk to be assumed by the Box. Those who pay this subjection to private interests, this genuine capitalisation of the BCP with public money, are all Portuguese. Since this is one of the most evidenced examples, we have others: Vale do Lobo, Grupo Lena, La Sila, Artlant, Imatosgil, Boats Caravela, are some of the ruinous operations that have generated massive losses, because the interest of economic groups and governments in their service was placed above the public interest, which the Box should defend. The report submitted by Mr João Almeida, who once again welcomed him, presented a factual and objective portrait of the Commission's work and, in part of the conclusions, pointed out satisfactorily — although not under the terms of the CFP — the responsibilities of the various administrations and the Banco de Portugal, which once again revealed the futility of supervision, a supervision based on blind confidence in the auditors who are paid by the banks themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u10	However, there was a lack of clear accountability for successive governments, both the PS, the PSD and the CDS, who pushed Caixa away from her mission. With the approval of the generality of the CFP proposals this gap has been completed. It was clear that over the last few years the governments have had an attitude to 'let go' to Caixa. The only minister of finance heard confirmed: he did not interfere in the box, nor did he have anything to do. The result is in sight: with the sole shareholder, who is the State, resigning from his role of accompanying the bank, the successive administrations made the Box whatever they wanted. For this reason, the CFP presented a proposal, which was approved and contained in the Final Report as a recommendation, to establish systematic and formal mechanisms for monitoring the Box for guardianship, so that it would never again be said that the State has nothing to do with the key options of the Box. unlike the guidelines of governments, the return of a public bank is not just dividends. It is territorial cohesion, with balconies all over the country and not the closures we have seen of balconies. It is to give the example to other banks and to guide the financial system, and not to imitate the private ones, for example, in the customer board with the banking commissions. It is funding for the productive economy, families, small and medium-sized enterprises. This, yes, is the return that the country expects from a public bank and not this path that was defined by PS, PSD and CDS, parties that, in addition, have often appointed administrations with party criteria and not competence, experience in the sector and suitability. Mrs. Members of this Commission have made clear the right-wing strategy and in particular the PSD. Disorientated as never before but knowing, as always, who serves, the PSD sought in this Commission to attack the public bank to justify its long-term objective, namely the privatisation of the Box, as already proposed by the previous Government. This strategy was clarified until the proposals for amendments to the report were presented. To make a media number, the PSD wanted the commission of inquiry to replace the judicial authorities and accuse, without realising who is responsible for the crime of harmful management. We reaffirm that it is up to a Committee of Inquiry to establish facts and political responsibilities. Criminal responsibilities must be established by the courts and therefore we voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal so that the report and the acquis of the Commission may be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u12	The CFP had a serious stance in this Commission and was committed to the development of facts and political responsibilities. This Committee of Inquiry reinforces our conviction that the solution is public control over the bank, but we also reaffirm that for a bank to be public, it is not enough to be of the State. It must be guided in order to serve the public interest, the interests of the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u13	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party was one of the parties proposing the Second Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank, thus seeking to correspond to the public interest as well as to the high expectation of public opinion in the discovery of the truth about the past management of the bank. The participation of PS members in this parliamentary inquiry focused on the impartial and rigorous clearance of the facts, responsibilities and those responsible for the management acts that have generated multiple and widespread capital losses in the bank's balance sheet since 2000. We did so without trying to protect people or cover up facts, but also without making attacks only justified by mere party convenience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese have the right to know the truth about the past management of the Box, which cases that generated such losses and who, by action, omission or negligence, participated directly or indirectly in the decisions related to these losses. 44 conclusions were adopted. The PS voted in favour of 93 % of them and eight of the nine proposals for conclusions that we have tabled have been adopted. We therefore consider that the overwhelming majority of the conclusions adopted accurately and impartially reflect the facts found in the investigation, such as the work, which we consider to be serious, of the Rapporteur, Mr João Almeida. In this regard, I would like to leave a fair and timely word for Mr Luís Leite Ramos, President of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, for the high, committed and serious position he has taken in the conduct of the work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the conclusions you voted and in the proposals you presented, the PS identified responsibilities of former governors, administrators and supervisors, without regard to who and their partisan color. No one can thus doubt our commitment to the exposure of truth. On the contrary, the proposals submitted by the PSD, the other party with government responsibilities in the period concerned, sought only to ease their own responsibilities and assert the thesis without factual support that only the governments of the others are responsible. The PSD did not resist the 'partisan' and, through its proposals for amendment, sought to overthrow the serious and factual line of the report, suggesting conclusions not supported by the facts ascertained, suggesting, with tabulated drafts, non-substantial insinuations and making generic considerations, with the aim of bleaching some of these facts, all by mere party calculus. The fact that the PSD has seen most of its proposals rejected...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u15	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u16	...is a demonstration of your erratic posture. The rapporteur and the other parliamentary groups have chosen to remain within the scope of the conclusions drawn and supported by facts established. A Parliamentary Inquiry Commission does not replace justice, it does not substitute courts, it does not replace the Public Prosecutor's Office and it is not up to a Committee of Inquiry to make criminal judgments. We therefore advocate intransigently the maximum factuality of the conclusions, because from the outset we realize that a factual, impartial and rigorous report is the service that Parliament must render to the country, thus contributing to the work of justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the field of the functioning of the internal bodies and the internal control system of the Box, it was concluded that the Box was not managed in a sound and prudent manner in granting various credits analysed. The procedures adopted at that time did not include a record of the weighting of the arguments made by the Enlarged Credit Commission or the Board of Directors or the reasons for non-compliance with recommendations, including risk, often devalued or contested in many credit granting operations. Financing for the acquisition of shares was granted under conditions other than those recommended by the Risk Management Directorate. These operations rarely received a favourable opinion from this Directorate. With regard to the operation of Banco de Portugal and the functioning of the financial supervision system, it was concluded that bureaucratic and dispelling supervision was carried out, not seeking to look beyond the solvency and capital ratios and adequate liquidity levels of each bank, not realizing the systemic risk of some operations. The Banco de Portugal has extreme confidence in the internal lines of defense of institutions — risk management, auditing and administration — and in the external — auditors and auditors — so much that neither in the face of repairs, emphasiss or public complaints acted swiftly, thus calling into question the usefulness of supervision. Finally, a general conclusion on the investigation: successive governments have failed and insufficiently exercised their guardianship duty, in particular in the monitoring of the decisions of the Board of Directors of the Bank on credit policy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament was able to respond to the public interest in the pursuit of truth and, for this purpose, Parliament had the decisive and responsible role of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u17	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, in the last decade, the committees of inquiry on the bank have ceased to be an exception; over the years they have become the rule. I believe that, unfortunately, no one will have the courage to say that this will be the last. However, I think we can all say today that, unlike several other committees, the work of this Commission has proved that it is possible for the parties, to do politics but to leave aside the most acute 'partisan', to build a committee which, on the one hand, clears up the appropriations and practices, and finally finds responsible. It is also possible — and so it was for the first time in the history of parliamentary committees of inquiry — to build a report that is all and approved by everyone. This is undoubtedly due not only to the spirit with which the Commission has been made but also, and above all, to the work of Mr Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u20	The rigour, factivity, exemption, the tireless way in which the Commission's work was followed was undoubtedly fundamental so that for the first time this Parliament could have, in a committee of inquiry on the bank, a report approved unanimously. This does not erase our differences, it shows that we can diverge on solutions, but we cannot diverge on the facts that are clear. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Conceição Bessa Ruão.]] Secondly, this Commission has proved that it is possible to prove responsible, and I would identify three lines of responsibility, each with a sentence that characterized its statements. In the first responsibility, which is that of the administrators who made these decisions, I would stress a sentence by Armando Vara, who, when asked why it was that a certain decision had been made, replied, and I quote: "Send who can! » In fact, anyone who was able to send to the General Deposit Box during this period, especially between 2005 and 2008, had a highly censored direct intervention in the granting of credit. Secondly, it would identify who chose and protected this administration. The then Minister Teixeira dos Santos told us several times that there was no interference in the granting of credit. I think it became clear that no interference had or worried about how the Box was managed. As the last line of managers, I would identify sleepy supervision and, we now discovered, a bit amnesia of the Consulate of Vítor Constance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u22	The way in which he disparately stated that he was dealing with monetary policy, and not that detail of supervision, and strangely agreed in the BCP crisis to prevent an administration but did not agree to prevent the administration of the General Deposit Box from granting financing to simply become the administration of the BCP, is well exemplified by the way in which the supervision worked and did not work, which has already been reported by the CDS. In addition, it was possible to detect standards: standards in the granting of credit in an unreasonable manner, standards in a public bank without mission, problem which, I must point out, still today is not solved, betting problems in the non-marketable sectors and, above all, in what I would call 'capitalism without capital', or capitalism with the capital controlled by the State and its interference in sound and free competition, making those who also had the most favorable conditions for political power. I ended up talking about the limits. There was the limit of inconsistent, unbelievable testimonies, some of them, I would say, unbelievably. Of course, we may not believe many of them and each one of us has formed his own convictions about what actually happened. But we must be able to distinguish between the facts and our conviction as to what has happened. Finally, I would like to highlight the short time that this Commission has worked and a simple fact: it is that, having been established indications of the practice of crimes, which have been sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office, this Commission is not in fact the police or a court. We will render a bad service to justice if we turn politics into justice and justice into politics. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u24	Parliament competed to ascertain facts, find responsible and draw conclusions, and that is what we did. We now hope that the other sovereignty agencies will work. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Conceição Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the excellent work done by this Commission and, in particular, the valuable and important performance of our President, Mr Luís Ramos. The report submitted by João Almeida deserves our recognition and has therefore obtained the unanimous vote of all. If the version initially presented was of quality, with the changes introduced, it was even better overall. The disorientation of the Socialist Party is so much that it has not been noticed that two thirds of the PSD proposals have been approved or integrated into the compromise of the final text of the report. [[PSD applause.]] Both the hearings conducted and the documents we had access to showed that the PSD was right when it proposed the establishment of the I Commission of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u27	... Commission that some have been able to close before all relevant information is obtained. With this, almost two years were lost, two years that could eventually have allowed them to start acting early in the recovery of credits and to take care of responsibilities. The hearings and the report itself prove what was so many years hidden or hidden from the Portuguese: in Box, there was not always sound and prudent management, especially between 2005 and 2008, in the administration of Santos Ferreira and Armando Vara. Thus, it was possible to ‘separate the wheat from the juicy’ and to demonstrate that they were not all the same. The Banco de Portugal was too often negligent and sometimes even pleasing as in the Berardo case and in the famous assault on the BCP. Political guardianship in that period was irresponsible, insofar as several ministers, such as Manuel Pinho or Vieira da Silva, had political intervention in some cases that turned out to be ruinous, with the political manager of the finances from then coming to this Commission confess that he failed, but saying that he is not sorry about the choice of the most ruinous administration of the General Deposit Box. It was also clear to the Portuguese that in certain bad business for the State, the Box administrators opposed risk opinions, failed to meet the conditions required and delivered to a privileged set of entrepreneurs favor credits, without guarantees and without any control. thus, they have exposed the General Deposit Box and its depositors to unacceptable risks, which have forced taxpayers to a dramatic effort over recent years. For the PSD, and I believe that for the generality of Portuguese as revealed in this Commission in certain administrations, in particular between 2005 and 2008, the management of the Box was indeed harmful. This conclusion was not left in the final report, which the PSD regrets. There was malicious management, yes! The Portuguese know this and agree and, on January 24, the Socialist Party also felt the same, when Mr Paul Correia said, in this plenary, and I quote: « On this issue, the position of the Socialist Party is clear and well-winned: that the responsibilities and those responsible for mismanagement and harmful management in the General Deposit Box will be learned as soon as possible. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u28	But they didn't hurry? Oh, my God! Didn't they hurry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u29	This Commission only confirmed this, and it was even more serious. After that, we hope that in the financial system, particularly in the public bank, none of this happens again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u30	I still had time to talk about "the evil triangle of power figures"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u31	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2000 the Box was the largest Portuguese bank and a powerful public intervention instrument, which should have been used in the strategic orientation of the Portuguese economy. But it wasn't! The public bank did not counter the national economy towards the monoculture of construction and real estate, to PPPs (public-private partnerships), and above all towards financial speculation, to the taste of the interests of an elite who always frequented the corridors of power but who was questioned only after having fallen to rot. It's very easy now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why PSD's outrage now sounds fake, it looks fake and it's really fake. It is pure political disorientation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u34	This Commission of Inquiry concluded that, for years, the Caixa has been very well associated with wrong, irresponsible and negligent practices of granting, monitoring and recovering credits, practices that focused on the mandate of Santos Ferreira, with particular responsibilities of Armando Vara, Francisco Bandeira and Maldonado Gonelha, during the Government of José Socrates. However, anyone who says that the bad practices of the Box are exclusive of this period or of these administrators mind. Many names have been passed through the Boards of Credit. We heard Celeste Cardona, Carlos Costa, Norberto Rosa and many others, who left us a certainty: at no time, the most ruinous credit operations, be it Berardo or Lobo Valley, were questioned or criticized by those who had that responsibility. There are also examples of mismanagement before and after this critical mandate. The derivative known as Boat Caravela, which cost 340 million unexplainedly, was approved by João Salgueiro, in 1999. The negligent follow-up of the debts of the Imatosgil group or the benevolent restructuring of José Berardo's credits extended in the mandate of Faria de Oliveira and later. On many sides, we heard the same justification: that these were the market practices at the time. We are convinced that yes, and do not confuse the Box with the BPN (English Business Bank) or BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ). However, what was required of the Box administrators was to align them with best practices rather than worst practices, much less if they had placed themselves in the situation of financing an shareholder conflict in a competitive private bank. What was required for guardianship was to determine and evaluate the strategic objectives of the public bank, instead of focusing on dividends received or using Box in a case-by-case manner to support specific companies, however important the projects might appear. What was required of Banco de Portugal and Vítor Constâncio was that they had identified the bad management practices, that they had prevented the taking of equity positions in banks, purely leveraged in credit, was that they had identified the systemic risk that came from the Box had financed BCP shareholders and took 8 % of the capital of this bank as collateral. What was required of Banco de Portugal was that, already in the mandate of Carlos Costa, the audits carried out, which preceded many of these events, had had had consequences. However, none of this has happened and therefore administrators, guardians and supervisors share responsibilities. The supervisory model failed, self-regulation proved to be a fraud and Caixa was hostage to the conjugation of promiscuity between private and political interests that dominated the economy and undermined Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u36	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of this Committee of Inquiry is factual and balanced and therefore it has merited our firm vote in favour. In addition, I would like to congratulate Mr João Almeida and also the President of the Commission. It has failed, however, for us, not only a structural criticism of the political choices that have led the economy to a wrong economic model, and that are linked to privatization and liberalisation of the financial system, but also the recommendation of concrete measures for the future that increase transparency and scrutiny on the functioning of the bank, where the secret has been the best ally of impunity. However, this Commission has fulfilled its role: it has brought transparency, scrutiny and rigour and its report will be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office with a clear indication for the investigation of criminal practices. the political power now has another task, which is the definition of the role of the public bank. I'll finish the way I started. We are in 2019 and the Box is still the largest Portuguese bank; more than that, the Box is the only Portuguese bank. It is still a powerful instrument of public intervention and what we want and will defend is that it is used in support of the productive economy and employment and that it is an example of competence, transparency and defence of the public interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u37	Mr Duarte Pacheco now speaks for one speech, since the PSD Parliamentary Group still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD welcomes the approval of this Report on the Management of the General Deposit Box. I recall that when we proposed the audit to the Box, it was plunged into this Parliament. I recall that the First Committee of Inquiry was closed in a hurry so that the truth could not be found out, and when we proposed the Second Committee of Inquiry many opposed, within and outside this House, fear that the truth would come to the knowledge of the Portuguese. [[It's true! That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u39	But we did not hesitate, did not give up and fought until the end so that this could happen. That is why we are pleased with the report which has been approved and we are also satisfied, indeed, with the climate of cooperation and cooperation that all political forces have maintained throughout the work of this Commission. But on 25th. the time, it must be regretted that the Socialist Party wanted to save someone's face and wanted to hide someone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u40	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u41	So he decided to propose that, after all, the economic crisis was responsible for something that had happened in the Box, contrary to what we all had always understood throughout the work. Despite the 15 proposals that the PSD was able to see adopted — seven were not — i.e., 2 / 3 of our proposals were approved — the PS and the left did not give up the existence of harmful management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u42	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u43	I will finish, Mr. President. We know they wanted to protect someone. It was on 25. the time, it's true, but that corresponds to the one that was your initial posture. From the very beginning they knew and wanted to hide the truth from the Portuguese; at the last moment they missed it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u44	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u45	... the courage to go to the end, has failed them the courage to tell that there was harmful management in the General Deposit Box, and that is something that will remain in your consciousness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u46	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item on the debate on the report of the Second Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management. We will move on to the third point, which consists of the assessment of the Ombudsman's Annual Report. Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a first word to greet the Ombudsman for her rigor and clarity which she printed to the report which she sent to the Assembly of the Republic on the activity carried out by the Provedoria in 2018. from the analysis of this report, similar to what has been happening in the past years, it is clear the importance of this body guaranteeing the rights of citizens, constitutionally consecrated and designated by the National Institute of Human Rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u49	... recognized by all as making a difference in the lives of Portuguese, especially those who are most vulnerable to public authorities and sources of national and international credibility. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Ombudsman's activities should highlight some of the activities taken to completion in the previous year, from the very first way in which the Ombudsman dealt with the issue of compensation to the victims of the fires of 2017, a difficult and complex process but that the Provedoria, unlike the political leaders and the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u51	... carried out with great diligence and in order to minimize the effects of such a great catastrophe on people's lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u52	Also to highlight the commemoration carried out for the 70 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or cooperation with international counterparts. We also welcome, and with concern, the increase in requests to the Ombudsman during 2018, which received the largest ever number in a total of 36 113. The most common issues in the procedures were social security issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u54	... and with regard to these the Ombudsman has repeatedly been alerting to the problem of delays in the allocation of reforms, drawing the attention of the Government to, and I quote: « the deficiencies that persist in the realization of social rights, in particular due to delays in the payment of old-age pensions, disability and survival », even classifying the situation of « harassment »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u56	...calls of attention that the government has ignored: delays continue and citizens expect and despair. [[PSD applause.]] It is also with concern that the PSD is mirrored in this report the rise of complaints that target entities at all levels of the Administration and that reflect the degradation of public services, a situation for which we have been alerting throughout the legislature and that has always been denied by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u58	Finally, a word for the Report in the part concerning the National Mechanism for Prevention against Torture, established by the previous Government, in 2013, and entrusted to the Ombudsman. This is a mechanism which has been monitoring and monitoring the situation of prisons in Portugal, through regular visits carried out in 2018 and in previous years, independently, and which draws attention to a number of deficiencies, problems that persist in our prison environment and which urgently prevail because they have to do with rights, freedoms and guarantees. Finally — and it is even the last word — a word of greeting to the Providence for the work it has done and which continues to develop for the benefit of the Portuguese and fundamental rights, especially those who are weakest before the administration and before the State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u59	Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. But first, I ask the honourable Members — by chance, you are ladies — who are standing by to sit down. Mrs. Susana Amador, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The positive affirmation of institutions that democratically represent citizens is an essential factor of stability and confidence in State bodies. The strong link between the Ombudsman and the Community, as well as the unequivocal defence and realization of the rights of the human person, gives him the task of protecting and guaranteeing the rights of the entire community. The report today in appreciation mirrors, with undeniable quality and density, this relevant activity developed in 2018 and shows an unequivocal sign of confidence in the reception and treatment of citizens' complaints and consequent guarantee of their rights. In 2018, Provedoria was still responsible for a competent, extraordinary and demanding function, which was associated with an extrajudicial mechanism of voluntary accession, regarding the payment of losses and damages to the families of the fatal victims of the major fires of 2017. The data presented in this regard show that none of the 300 proposals for demining have been refused and, among them, 46 propose demining for property damage and 254 for non-patrimonial damage, reaching a total of around EUR 31 million. In turn, the 48 129 requests, which gave rise to 9333 procedures, denote that same trust, credibility and consolidated prestige of this institution over 44 years old. It should also be noted that about 51 % of the procedures filed were due to the repair by the services of the reason for the complaint, and more than half, 64, in less than 90 days, which shows the good cooperation of the services referred to in the complaints of the citizens. The Ombudsman's Annual Report is still a key tool for us to understand the functioning of our Public Administration in its relationship with citizens, which is an indispensable dimension, since the Public Administration has the aim of making life easier for citizens rather than vice versa. hence the importance of the modernisation, simplification and administrative innovation that Simplex plays so well and to which the government has given absolute centrality, and well. In the specific considerations which the report now introduces, we should pay particular attention to the issues raised concerning the rights of children in the context of institutionalization, which we will continue to follow. The most common issues in 2018 were social security, public employment, taxation, administration of justice and foreign law. In relation to social security, an ambitious plan was drawn up, which aimed to increase the response capacity in this sector, which in 2015 had fewer than 4000 employees, more than 600 placed in requalification by the previous government. This strengthening has already been translated into human resources, into the Social Security Institute, with more than 600, and into the National Pension Centre, with 157, as well as in the training and modernization of the computer park. We cannot, however, deviate from what is essential. It is that with this government they have increased all social benefits and poverty has declined significantly, with fewer than 328 000 people in severe material deprivation. Through the National Prevention Mechanism, visits were made and also wanted to highlight issues related to children held in temporary centres, which had already developed in 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Member. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u62	...and the conditions of access to the prison environment. Finally, Mr President, we could not fail to appreciate the Ombudsman's activity as a human rights institution, where the link between the national and the international level in the defence of human rights is relevant and where Portugal affirms itself as an example for the international community in welcoming refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u63	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u64	Furthermore, Mr President, the international recognition of Portugal by the UN with regard to the excellence of public service in the national centres for support for immigrants well reveals what is the prestige of Portugal and how imperative it is that we all continue in this march of light which illuminates human rights in Portugal and which we must always monitor so that this light remains on for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u65	Mrs. Member, it is 3 minutes for each parliamentary group and not 4 minutes. If we wanted it to be four minutes, we had it established at the Conference of Leaders. Mr José Manuel Pureza, for the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ombudsman's report does well the portrait of the distance that goes from the discourse of easy apology and the surface of human rights to its effective practice there, where it is most difficult to do them. The report therefore has an essential merit, which is to disregard this reality and I give two examples taken from this report. The first concerns the prison system and protection. The report refers to a clear picture of disinvestment in social reintegration, with the disheartening of its professionals and with what the Report calls « the shortage of programmes specifically aimed at the problems of each person under security regime ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u67	Mr President, I ask you to wait for only one second. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing behind the Bureau, please sit down so that we can continue our work. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. The report also refers to the depersonalization of prisoners, people who are treated by a number and not by their name, people who are condemned, in addition to deprivation of liberty, to live this same deprivation under conditions that are offensive to the dignity of any human being. Finally, the report refers to the conditions for the provision of health care in the prison environment. While appreciating the gradual internalization of these care in the frameworks of prison establishments themselves, the report notes that this is still an incipient change. The second example is that of temporary installation centres and similar spaces, i.e. for immigrants who are in an irregular situation and arrive at Portugal at their airports. I quote what the report says, to record: "They have no personal good besides the clothes they bring and another that is drying out in the yard and some hygiene products. They do not have access to luggage, food is individual food packages, usually used by airlines on air trips. Free time occupation is a TV. Contact with the outside at airports is almost null, because there are no visits or they can have mobile phones for security reasons. They can only speak 5 minutes by phone throughout the detention period, which can reach 60 days, which gives an average of 5 seconds per day. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is what the report portrays as a condition for people coming to Portugal and who deserve to have their dignity respected. This happens in Portugal, a country that likes to say that it is fulfilling human rights. Caetano Veloso sang Haiti is here to show that denial of rights dwells in the midst of societies that say they respect them. If this Ombudsman's Report serves to ensure that it is also with us, then this Report is of the greatest importance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u69	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of the report by the Ombudsman in the Assembly of the Republic must not fail to be an opportunity in this House to recognize the preponderant, primordial and even undisturbed role that the Ombudsman represents in our constitutional system. In fact, it is in the Provedoria of Justice that those who generally find no answer in any other institution, find the ability to hear, debate, analyze and try to solve their problems. This Report, for 2018, realises exactly that. But if the Ombudsman's Report reflects something, if it reflects some reality, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this report which we are discussing here gives us a reality that is no better than the previous years. On the contrary, this report gives us a reality that has worsened with those who need help and who have been precisely to the Ombudsman for help. In 2018, there was an increase of 20 % of the procedures and in relation to the procedures under investigation there was an increase of about 15 %. There has been a growth of about 70% of foreign and prison rights issues. As far as social rights are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2018, there was an increase of 39 %. The situation in the National Pension Centre regarding the delay in the allocation of pensions should be highlighted, a situation that has been identified as a priority. In addition, this report gives us two aspects to highlight. On the one hand, the Government’s response — the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Secretary of State — to the many requests of the Ombudsman was non-existent. Therefore the Government has not heard the cry of the Ombudsman. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government has not heard, it is true that the reality that has been reflected is very, very serious and must deserve a widespread alarm and concern. See the words in the Report : « These are appeals of people who, in the face of such delays, are deprived of any income(...) ». She said: « Experience this type of situation in a year in which it was celebrated so well deserved and profusely 70. the Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (... ) is ominous to the community of citizens». It is disturbing for us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! She also said: « The lack of human resources cannot serve as an adequate basis for years to justify failure to fulfil the duties of the State (... ) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u72	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hear the appeal of the Ombudsman at a time when we already know that the government has failed in relation to the commitment to see this situation overcome by the end of the first half. Once again, the government failed and failed to speak. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u73	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u74	Mr President, Secretary of State and Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Members: First, it is due to a greeting to Prof. Dr. Lucia Amaral, current holder of the position of the Ombudsman, for the way he has, in fact, followed his predecessors, prestigious this position, which is an important unipersonal organ of Portuguese democracy. As Prof. Lucia Amaral rightly points out in the introductory note to the report she sent to the Assembly of the Republic, this is a work which, being played by a single-person body, has a valuable team of collaborators who have contributed much to prestigious this body. There is a great appreciation of the people who work in the Ombudsman's Office. It should be noted that there is a great novelty in this Report which relates to the special liability assigned to the Ombudsman in respect of compensation to the victims of the major fires in 2017. Initially, compensation was planned for the families of the people who died in those fires, but then compensation was also provided for those who, having not died, were seriously affected in their physical integrity by those fires. This intervention was not provided for by law, it was exceptionally attributed to the Ombudsman's Office, which was dismissed in an exemplary manner. We must therefore all appreciate the fact that the Ombudsman has performed this task without prejudging all the functions of the Ombudsman. Another important point in this report is the question of having reached the maximum number of complaints made to the Ombudsman's Office, which means that there has been a long time to improve public administration in Portugal at all levels, but also means that it is a prestigious factor for the Ombudsman's Office. People believe that, by intervention by the Ombudsman, it is possible to repair injustices committed in our country and, indeed, the way in which the Ombudsman's recommendations have been increasingly accepted is elucidative of the prestige that this institution has come to grow. It is important to value the Ombudsman's report, particularly when it comes to critical aspects of the administration's operation in Portugal at various levels and in sensitive situations of respect for human rights, such as the prison system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u76	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is also important that in the future, in the near term, so in the next Parliament, because this is ending, the very important recommendations that this report presents — it has been presented to us at the time when the House's legislative intervention is being exhausted — are being reviewed. The challenge remains for the next Parliament to comply fully with what is recommended in this Report by the Ombudsman. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u77	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point on our agenda, which is contained in the discussion of the 2018 Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ). To open the debate, I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and the Internal Administration, Isabel Oneto, whom I use to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. I should like to present the Annual Internal Security Report with the data on crime participated in 2018. As in the public domain, Portugal continues to see a decline in crime from 2008 to now. Last year, crime again fell by 2, 6 % with respect to general crime and 8, 6 % with regard to violent and serious crime. This means that there has been a policy of proximity and resolution of the most pressing issues for our community, which makes Portugal, as you know, considered the third safest country in the world. This does not, of course, lead to the lowering of arms; on the contrary, it leads, above all, to enhance the work that has been carried out by men and women serving security forces and services and to pursue the policy of investment in security forces and services, so that they can continue to carry out their mission of protection for our citizens. I would also like to point out the particular attention that this Government is giving to the issues of domestic violence, precisely so that this real scourge of our society can have adequate answers and that women are free and citizens in all its fullness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u80	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: It is not the time that has been devoted to this debate to an in-depth discussion, but only two ideas. The first is to say that although the data of RASI ( Annual Report on Internal Security) 2018 continue to confirm Portugal as one of the most secure countries—crime in general goes down, but also violent and serious crime—they also confirm that Portugal is not a safe country for all. And it's certainly not for women. The violations increased by 3, 2 % compared to 2017 and domestic violence, despite the slight reduction, remains the third crime with more participations and the second in the type of crimes against people. And it continues to affirm itself as a crime with a gender brand: almost 80% of the victims are women and more than 80% of the reported men are men. There were close to 70 % of records, 21,000 cases filed, 4600 charges, i.e. only 14 %, despite the overwhelming majority of risk assessments being medium or high. This reality will not be beyond the difficulty of collecting and preserving evidence, to which the proposal of the Left Block for the collection of victims for future memory may give some answer, as indeed suggested by the Attorney-General of the Republic. In fact, Portugal remains a safe country, except for women, and this is a fight to which one cannot turn his back. I would like to draw attention to the fact that domestic violence is not treated in RASI as a violent and serious crime, but rather as a general crime, which makes no sense. Domestic violence is defined as a violent and serious crime in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but this is not understood in RASI. If this were to be considered, the violent and serious crime that, without domestic violence, would be very prominent. Why does RASI continue—is the question I ask—to treat domestic violence as a minor crime? The second idea I wanted to bring here with regard to the 2018 RASI refers to the number of security forces and services officers. What you realize is that the exits continue to overcome admissions and not to cope with the aging of the police elements, and this is a problem that will worsen in the future. Mr. Minister, in the Commission, had already taken account of the admission of 950 elements of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) in 2018, but we also know that much has been referred to the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ) rather than to the operational functions of the GNR. It is not surprising, therefore, that we have somewhat for all the country teams which are outnumbered by human resources with schedules and secretary services. In the PSP, the scenario is more or less the same. The fact is that, in these four years, the balance sheet of admissions and exits results in less effective, a situation in which it becomes impossible to restore those who go out and face future exits as well. How is the government's inability to solve this problem in four years' term of office explained? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u81	Mr Luís Marques Guedes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u82	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: When we talk about RASI in a year in which, in statistical terms, crime has come down again, the year 2018, of course it must begin by thanking the men and women of the security forces and services, who are the first responsible for protecting the people and goods of the Portuguese and tourists who visit us and who, in the front line, fight this same crime and ensure security standards that place our country at the top of the safest countries of the world. This word of gratitude will never be too much for all those who, with their availability, put their lives at constant risk to defend our security. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, having said this, I must say that it was with some surprise that I heard the intervention of the Left Block when it referred to the security forces' effectors. In fact, we have reached the end of this legislation with less effective security forces than at the beginning of the legislation. The RASI 2015 and 2018 are clear on this matter. The extraordinary thing is that during these four years the Left Block has consistently supported the policies and budgets of this government that have led to this situation. However, they now give a walkover as if they were opposed and as if they were very concerned about what they have fostered and supported for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u83	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u84	There is at least a bit of decorating on this matter. And the same is true, Madam Secretary of State, on the issue of domestic violence. It is true that the Government, still yesterday in the Council of Ministers, approved or, at least, announced a set of measures to combat domestic violence further. It is a little weight in your conscience, because for four years little or nothing have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u85	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u86	It took the abnormal, lamentable and dramatic peak, at the beginning of this year, with more deaths of women than usual, if one can speak normally about a drama, such a tragedy as this, for the government to wake up and begin to announce measures. The fact is that during the four years of the legislature it has systematically disinvested in terms of, inter alia, the training of police and officials of authority, as well as judicial magistrates in the fight against domestic violence. I give the floor, Madam Secretary of State, to also regret the very low degree of implementation of the Law on the Programming of Infrastructure and Equipment for Security Forces and Services, supported and approved by a large majority in this House and which, unfortunately, has left our authorities and our security forces in a deplorable situation of lack of and degradation of resources and resources that any day calls into question the security that we all cherish and we want to defend. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u87	Mr António Gameiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u88	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: Today, when we look at the Annual Report on Internal Security, we have the opportunity to see that the downward trend of crime in general, of violent and serious crime and domestic violence, of group crime and juvenile crime, which are already a departure from our collective behaviour in Portugal, once again, had a significant decrease in 2018. This is not by chance. There is a set of public internal security policies that, more than a decade ago, has been consolidated with broad partisan, political spectrum and which has helped create three essential elements. The first is the idea that internal security itself is an intrinsic value of the Portuguese economy. Portuguese security attracts tourists, companies, capital and therefore each euro invested in internal security is a euro invested in increasing the Portuguese economy, employment and quality of life. Secondly, the increasing capacity to install this sense of security in Portuguese was also due to the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for Security Forces and Services, which in 2018 was implemented more than 60 million euros. I would like to stress that in Santarém a few days ago, we were able to see the opening of a GNR headquarters and visit another one this week that is in works. We now have the competition for the launch squad virtually ready to be launched. We have seen hundreds of cars, weapons and other equipment being distributed to security forces, and that contributes to this feeling of security. This government looked at security policy further, in a comprehensive way, resolved the problem of police regulations, but at the same time brought to this House, in a complementary way, a new legal regime for private security. With these results, we are seeing, in the long run, a new law of arms passed with great scope in this plenary which will be taken out of the market in the next 10 years, between 500 and 700 000 weapons. That's how it's planned. We can continue to work there to visualize even better borders, year after year, with a government that is aware of the sense of security for the Portuguese and the added value it has for the Portuguese economy and society, for the quality of our citizens and for their quality of life and for the confidence we must have in our society, as a collective that wants to improve its social condition every day, its socio-economic condition, but above all, from a civilizational point of view, or to see that we are a country where we can say 'Come to Portugal, welcome', because here you can live well, more safely and with a government attentive to all the security phenomena. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u89	Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The first consideration that the 2018 RASI raises is that Portugal has low levels of crime registered. Portugal is indeed a safe country, despite a perception of security that is different from the data that are recorded, much the result of the excessive mediatization of crime in our country. After mentioning this, it is important to highlight two others: first, he fired the number of injuries recorded. We have succeeded in this question of the wounded among the security forces and services, i.e. among the professionals, with the Minister and it was clear that there was a change in the methodology, now being recorded injuries in service that were not previously, which leads to concern regarding safety and health measures at work. A second fact that we want to highlight and that it is relatively consensual is that the data recorded in the RASI and those we have checked in our country are the result of the commitment, the work of the agents, the personnel of the security forces and services. These are the aspects we all agree on. Once mentioned, if we move on to the concrete plan of valuing professionals, then there is no consensus. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to point out that, in spite of much rhetoric about valuing professionals, there is a determining aspect, which is that of the concrete vote of diplomas. I highlight two very important diplomas, presented by the Portuguese Communist Party, which were rejected. I speak of a basic law of safety and health at work that was so lacking to the professionals of the security forces and services and that it was rejected by the PS and PS, and the CDS-PP opted for abstention. The second diploma was that of the police condition for security forces and services, where the police condition, rights and duties inherent in this matter were defined, but there we did not have the favorable vote either of the PSD or of the PS and we abstained from the CDS. This rejection also contributed to the lack of appreciation of the security forces and services professionals. The CFP Parliamentary Group will of course continue to insist on these initiatives. Without any hesitation, the CFP has placed itself in this legislature and will continue to stand alongside the professionals. The sympathetic words of appreciation of professionals do not arrive, they are effectively needed very concrete measures. It is appropriate to say: move forward, here, it is also necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u91	To conclude this item on the agenda, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u92	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: With regard to this matter, I would like to say, as I have said several times, that the fact that Portugal is a global safe country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u93	Mr Telmo Correia, I apologize for interrupting. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing behind the Bureau, please sit down on a matter of respect for the colleagues who are speaking. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. To say that Portugal is a globally safe country is a fact that we have recorded for many years to this part. That's positive. A global decrease of 8, 6 % of violent and serious crime is a fact that must obviously be recorded as positive. However, and nevertheless — it should be pointed out that we have not, from this point of view, the Government's response — in spite of this globally positive trend, there are specific crimes which in this Annual Internal Security Report have increases that in some cases are very significant. I am thinking, for example, of homicides, that the increase is "only" of 34, 1 %. What reading do we make of this? What reading does the government make of this? What kind of response does the government have? Anyway, that we don't know and maybe it would be useful to know and understand. This huge increase in the number of homicides has a reference, which is that many of them will potentially be involved in a family context, which continues to be contradictory to the alleged decrease in the domestic violence crime. There is a contradiction here: murder increases immensely and domestic violence supposedly decreases. This doesn't make much sense. On the other hand, this report also gives us a clear sign of a failure, for which the CDS has been alerting. The CDS has made proposals, as the Government has made some of them absurd: from drones to control motorways, to mobile signal control to reduce road-trafficking which, year after year, has been increasing without, for example, adopting other solutions and without the government having a response to this. More than 2, 3 % is recorded in the previous year, almost 2 % is recorded in this year. There are other issues, such as violence in sport, for which a committee has been set up, but that we have no answer. I also highlight the signs of serious threats such as the increase in cybercrime or even terrorism, particularly those related to the return of those in conflict zones, for which the CDS also presented several proposals, and some of them did not receive the Government, the majority and this House. This report also alerts us to some worrying phenomena, radicalization and extremism, on the one hand and on the other, with reflection on Portuguese society and, on which, it is important to have a reading. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that if security numbers are globally positive, there is another essential contradiction to which the CDS has warned over the past four years. It is very good for some parties to say here « we are on the side of the security forces», but where was that side?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u95	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u96	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. This side was, year after year, in the Budgets that were voted on and that the majority approved and that make us today have the lowest number ever...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u97	And where was the CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u98	... of PSP elements without risk subsidy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u99	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude,
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u100	I shall finish, Mr President, by showing a headline today that is old PSP computers without access to the database." This is reality and security forces perform miracles to ensure a safe country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u101	Mr, you do not have 4 minutes, but 3 minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u102	This is a country where the government does not do what it should have done! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Luís Marques Guedes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u103	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u104	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by the various parliamentary groups. Mr. Marques Guedes, regrettable is the de-investment that the previous government has made in the security forces and services... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u105	...and not see the investment that is currently being made! Look, I'm starting with the individual protective equipment, the increase of which is 228 %. More: equipment for specialized functions increased 182 % and the Programming Act currently has a degree of implementation of more than 60 % in two years of its duration. I do not want to acknowledge what is being done at the moment — the delivery of cars to security forces and services in terms of armaments and personal protective equipment and investment in infrastructures — is, in fact, not wanting to recognize what is actually happening. You will have your position, but I must say you don't know what's going on in the country. About domestic violence, there is a concern in this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u107	I shall now conclude, Mr President. With regard to domestic violence over the past four years, there has always been training in the security forces and one of the main measures taken by the Government and accompanied by this Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u108	Madam Secretary of State, I say the same thing to the parliamentary groups. It had 3 minutes and no more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u109	I will now finish, Mr President. I said that one of the main measures was to reduce the number of weapons with the approval of the arms law, because most of the murders that Mr Telmo Correia has just talked about are crimes committed with weapons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u110	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You're really going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u111	Fortunately, we have been able to implement this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u112	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 474 / XIII / 3. a ( Association ANIMAL - Rita Silva ) — By a circus free of animals in Portugal. [[Pause.]] If there are no inscriptions, we move to the next point, because the time we are waiting for is a totally wasted time. [[Pause.]] Mr Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to begin by welcoming the almost 20,000 petitioners who brought us here this proposal. I also want to appreciate the mobilization that has been made by a wide range of associations, which have been the spokespersons of requests for advance respect for all animals and which have been making the public service of awareness for the need to change our relationship with animals for decades. In 2003, some of the subscribers of this petition, including Rita Silva and the ANIMAL Association, raised the veil and denounced the abuse of animals in circuses. In 2009, they also actively participated in the configuration of the legislation that if it had been implemented accordingly could have already led to the end of the use of wild animals in the circus. Since then, it is not allowed to acquire new creatures or animals or, yet, new animals are born there. In 2009, the Left Block, in close association with the associations and the circus workers, presented a project to end the use of wild animals and to support this transition in circuses. By then, many circuses felt it was necessary not to allow the use of wild animals and society already asked for another type of treatment for animals. At the same time, there was still no majority in this House to ensure a firmer position that it would not be necessary to discuss this issue again 10 years later. Today, we are discussing this petition which entered the House before the legislative procedure we made this year and which led to the existence of legislation which, taxfully, prohibits the use of wild animals in circuses. It was also these 20 000 petitioners and the mobilisations for animal respect which ensured that there was finally a majority to approve this amendment. However, this majority of us will have to wait six more years to see the end of the use of wild animals in the circuses, which is more than half the time we have been waiting for. This legislation will enter into force 16 years later — I repeat, 16 years later — of the Assembly of the Republic and the society decided that it would be time to put an end to the use of wild animals in circuses. Now, 16 years is too long for an adaptation and there we see how social intervention is necessary to ensure that there is a majority here and that this majority is fulfilled, too, by each government. on our part, you can count on every effort to anticipate and shorten these impasses. We'll be here for the missing job. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u114	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the subscribers of the petition under discussion, a petition which deals with a matter which has been the subject of a legislative process, but which has already been discussed and concluded in the Assembly of the Republic. This legislative process, for which the CFP has made its contribution, constructively and seriously, in order to strengthen animal welfare, without taxes and ensuring the possibility of conversion of circus art to ensure its continuity, had an extended set of hearings of various entities and associations. And, on animal welfare, it is important to remember that the CFP was the first party to follow and present an initiative on this subject, stating that it is not with prohibitions, immediacy and impositions that achieve the objective. In the discussion and reflection on the animals used in the circus activity, we proposed that a national voluntary delivery programme be created; we proposed that the State create a line of financial incentives for the conversion of circus shows, including the conversion of circus workers to develop their activity in other circus arts; we proposed that the State create animal shelters, taking into account the characteristics and needs of each species; we proposed strengthening human resources to ensure the monitoring and enforcement of animal welfare legislation; we proposed the creation of a national register of circus animals. This is not our perspective on this matter, so many of these proposals are based on solutions found for various rules that are now contained in the law. We cannot forget that the circus is an art, an art that has been maintained by communities, families, over the years, that art that has to be respected and that we have a duty to preserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u117	We will continue to intervene in the protection and protection of animals and their well-being, always taking into account that this objective is only possible if we establish a harmonious relationship between humans and animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u118	All right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u119	We defend that the way to a circus without animals cannot be forced, it must be done in a natural and gradual manner, with the greatest respect for both circus activity and animal welfare. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u120	It is the turn of Mr Joel Sá, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the act of citizenship of some 20,000 subscribers by bringing this petition to this Parliament. The PSD recognizes the importance of animal rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Animal Rights, proclaimed by UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), in 1978. We emphasize both the respect, cultural and social, which we have for the circus companies, their professionals and protagonists, and our concerns about the protection of rights and the welfare of animals, of which we have given abundant evidence in the previous and current laws. The PSD followed the need for a paradigm shift with regard to circus shows, particularly in the replacement of animals by art, a global and irreversible trend. For us, circus and circus activity are culture, from ancient Rome to today. Portugal, in 2009, took an important step in this direction through legislation prohibiting the acquisition of new animals by the promoters of circus activities. In addition to preventing the purchase of new specimens, the diploma also prevented the reproduction of specimens that the circus companies already owned. As a result of the legislation in force, the maintenance and use of large symmes — chimpanzees, oranges, gorillas — in circuses, shows and numbers with animals were immediately prohibited. The circuses were forced to register them and prevent them from reproducing themselves, in addition to being forbidden to acquire new animals of these species. The PSD considers that this is the principle of ending the use of animals in circuses in Portugal and the truth is that animals have gradually disappeared from circus shows, with the arrival of the end of life of each of them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We stress that it was in a government led by the PSD that significant progress has been promoted in improving the legal framework for the rights and protection of animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u123	The PSD thus monitors the developments that have occurred. As is well remembered in 2018, a diploma was approved which strengthens the protection of animals used in circuses, in particular as regards their detention, and the end of the use of wild animals. To this end, a working group was created, which was pleased to coordinate, and, with the commitment of all and with a very decisive contribution from the PSD, we arrived at a very balanced text for both the defense of animals and the circus activity. Thus, we understand that the object of this Request has been achieved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude my last intervention in this Legislative Session, I would like to say that it was an honor for me to represent my council, Barcelos, my district, Braga, and my country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u124	I now give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by congratulating the petitioners and saying that on this topic there were already bills approved initially in December 2017 that gave rise to a working group which culminated in the approval of Law No 20 / 2019 and which deserved the vote against the CDS. The petitioners claim that Portugal has legislated in 2009 in this respect — which is true — but that the practical results for animals have been very short. Now, with this, we can no longer agree, because they seem to want to ignore that animals have a certain period of life, because they have been born, in their large majority, but in their entirety, in captivity and therefore cannot be put at risk in the environment. The 2009 law already prevented the purchase of new copies and the reproduction of existing copies and therefore in practice determined the end, in time, of the use of animals in the circus. They also say that the use of animals in the circus perverts its nature and I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members, as well as petitioners, if pets were not also they, one day, wild, if they were not domesticated by man. Today, none of us hesitates to say that the dog is man's best friend. The petitioners also consider that, and I quote, "it is time to evolve" so that we do not have "a society that is less civilized and backward in time". I agree with the petitioners on one point: I want a more just and civilized country, but in the CDS we do not confuse priorities. This fairer and more civilized country that I desire is a country with health care for all people, in which each human being can benefit from the social elevator and fulfill his life plan, in which the discounts in social passes are the same in Lisbon, Porto, Santarém, Vila Real or Algarve. This is the fairest and most civilized country by which, in the CDS, we intend to fight. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u126	You have the floor for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the subscribers of Petition No 474 / XIII / 3. the, which has as first subscriber the ANIMAL Association and which brings to the Assembly of the Republic a concern regarding the use of animals in the circus, proposing the prohibition of such practice. I would like to say that in the X Legislation for the first time, the Greens presented in the Assembly of the Republic, just in 2009, a bill on this subject of regulation and also the prohibition of the use of certain animals in the circus. Just that year, it came out with a decree establishing the conditions of health policy applicable to the movement of circus animals, as well as to the movement of circus animals in the national territory and also to the conditions of health and animal protection for the use of animals in circuses. in this Parliament, through the presentation by several parliamentary groups of a set of bills on this matter — a legislative process for which The Greens also contributed, through Bill No 706 / XIII / 3. the, precisely on animals in the circus, opened a legislative process that culminated in Law No 20 / 2019, of 22 February, which seems to us to take important steps as regards the prohibition of the use of wild animals in the circus and in a gradual manner, is true. This law provides for the registration of animals used in circuses, the national register of animals used, a voluntary delivery programme of these wild animals, also the seizure of undeclared animals and also a recovery centre for wild animals. It was a legislative process where a number of entities have been heard, as has already been mentioned, and which has just culminated in this text. Mr President, this is the point that we would like to highlight in this debate, considering that there will certainly be more work to be done in the forthcoming legislatures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u128	To conclude this point, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate on the plenary day of this Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Group, Mr President, the Bureau, the sole representative of the party, the non-registered Member, the Secretary-General of State for Parliamentary Affairs who have served — Duarte Cordeiro and Pedro Nuno Santos —, all parliamentary officials, the officials of the parliamentary groups and the journalists who accompany our work, since this Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee has been held within one year. With regard to Petition, I would like to welcome the petitioners for the nearly 20,000 signatures brought together at the initiative of the ANIMAL Association and which brought to Parliament a subject which has already been discussed here, whose object has been included in legislation resulting from PS, Greens, Left Block, PCP and PAN projects, and which has allowed the approval of Law No 20 / 2019, achieving the fundamental purposes that the proposers bring here. Firstly, the guarantee that there is a register of all animals involved in circus activities, that there is a specific record of wild animals with a view to enabling the prohibition of their use in future, in circus shows, but above all, the creation of a sufficiently extended transitional regime, lasting six years, which allows the recognition of the value of this activity, allowing either a voluntary delivery programme or support for professional conversion, which, in fact, continues to support professionals who dedicate themselves to the sector, allowing their conversion and ensuring that this measure, which strengthens animal welfare, is accompanied by the recognition that this important cultural dimension that the circus carries out within the framework of cultural activities in our country should be supported. This legislation will certainly be recorded in the history of the evolution of legislation in this area, because, it is not too late and it is not too much to remember, it is in this Parliament that Parliament approves the amendment to the Civil Code, providing for a legal status for animals, which the PS has already tried to introduce into the previous legislation; it is in this Parliament that the abatements in municipal collection centres are prohibited; it is in this Parliament that the purchase and sale and transmission of pet animals are regulated; it is in this Parliament that they have access to commercial establishments; it is in this Parliament that the Government takes relevant steps in the regulation of the databases accompanying this matter. I think we can make a balance, and it is transversal to the various parliamentary groups: not all of us have been accompanying all the initiatives at all times, but I think it is undeniable today — and it is also something that petitioning and the work of citizens who, along with us, bring this issue, reveal — that animal welfare is, indisputably, a public policy inscribed in our work and it is also an increasingly important legal principle in what is parliamentary work, it is a concern of society and, above all, it is increasingly a civilized requirement that we must continue to pay attention and that it must be developed in the forthcoming legislatures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u130	There was a great entry movement of Mr. and Mr. Members, but just to clarify, we will still have a debate before the vote, as well as a number of others on the agenda without due time. In the meantime, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on a legislative initiative that has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr. President has admitted Bill No. 1248 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) — First amendment to Law No 23 / 2011 of 20 May 2011 That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u132	It is exactly this bill that we have as the seventh point on our agenda, right after the sixth point, that is the report of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board, both of which are timeless for discussion. Equally with no time allocated for discussion, the following initiatives are scheduled: from the eighth item of the agenda there is Bill No. 1240 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the name « Union of Freguesias de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá » in the municipality of Viseu, to « Freguesia de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá », which follows the ninth point, with the Draft Resolution No 2108 / XIII / 4. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered as priority within the framework of the European Commission's 2019 work programme. of the tenth point is draft resolution No 2261 / XIII / 4. a ( CAE ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2018 ; of the 10th point, there is motion for a resolution No 71 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the withdrawal by the Portuguese Republic of the Convention on the Use of Women in Underwork in Mines of Any Category adopted on 19. the Session of the General Conference of the International Labour Organization in Geneva on 4 June 1935 ; and of the 10th point, there is motion for a resolution No 86 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities, open for signature in Utreque on 16 November 2009. Now, yes, we turn to the third item on the agenda, with the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 311/ XIII — Approves the transparency rules applicable to private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the veto of Mr. President of the Republic, which was read at the beginning of this session, in which some reservations were expressed regarding the project on representation of interests presented by this House, approved a few weeks ago and returned without promulgation, the parliamentary groups of the Socialist Party and the CDS - parliamentary groups that presented initiatives that were adopted following the work in the Committee on Transparency - sought to meet the concerns expressed by Mr. Ex. the President of the Republic. Basically, and first of all, we have the question of the scope of this diploma. The President of the Republic stresses his understanding that the same should also cover the services of the Presidency of the Republic and the representatives of the Republic, which we do not consider to be worthy of any controversy. In fact, it was discussed in the Commission and perhaps only some reverential fear of not wanting to introduce this matter at a first stage of the legislation led not to the initial version of the diploma, but to generate a consensus and recognition that, since the regime exists, it should also have that scope. Secondly, we recognize that the transparency aspect of which the interests are represented should not be limited only to some, but rather seek to give the full picture in the act of registration of what this registration framework should be for those who are engaged in the activity of representation of interests, and also — in meeting the third concern of the President of the Republic — to note that the volume of income from this activity of representation of interests should also have some reflection in the registration. These are the three very synthetic proposals, very brief, which we seek to present, meeting the concern of the President of the Republic. This diploma is innovative, it will be the first time that we have legislation on this matter in the Portuguese legal order. It is important that we be able to take this step in order to keep in line with the European dimension on this subject. It seems to us that, with these three small amendments, we do not substantially change the positions of any parliamentary group and we will achieve, even if we do not have future development and further development, a goal that this House has set itself in the framework of its activity to strengthen transparency and strengthen the quality of democracy and its institutions. We therefore appeal to the parliamentary groups present to be able to address these three small amendments with this philosophy, seeking to respond to the concern expressed by the President of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u134	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have concluded a long process, which was, moreover, initiated by a proposal from the CDS, in the sense of Portugal, similar to the other States of the European Union — and even Europe — to have a specific regulation concerning what is commonly referred to as « lobby activity ». It was a timeless process within the Committee on Transparency, which, I repeat, was initiated by a proposal submitted by the CDS — to which the other parliamentary groups then joined — which was widely debated, widely discussed, with many heard entities, and already at the end of the legislature, it was possible to reach a minimum common text between the various parliamentary groups or at least part of them. Having been sent, as is the case, by Mr President of the Republic, a message — which we are seeking to meet today — on the return, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 311/13, would highlight at least two types of repairs or, better speaking, two types of comments. First of all, he refers to the message from the President of the Republic, but he would like to see Parliament's initiative to impose transparency on organized pressure groups — that is the first comment — that is to say what the CDS has always said about the importance of this activity being regulated — but he would prefer that it could not have only a greater scope and application, in particular, apply to the Presidency of the Republic itself and also to representatives of the Republic of the autonomous regions and, at the same time, have a more rigorous record from the point of view of the declaration of interest. Well, what we presented, together with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, was a set of proposals that aim, no less, and prudently, realistically, to meet the concerns of the President of the Republic. So we can have the regulation due to this activity, so we can have, with the inclusion of the concerns of the President of the Republic, that same activity and that for the CDS, it is essential that Portugal, from today, the last day of this Legislation, becomes a country of the European Union, like all others, which has a specific regulation on this matter. We do not see, in fact — as has been said here, and indeed by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves — any substantial amendment that changes the meaning of the various parliamentary groups, which is why we expect, at the end of the Legislative Session, at the end of the Parliament, to have greater transparency, greater supervision and, finally, a regime that can regulate the lobby, as from the beginning — and for more than two years now — the CDS proposes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u136	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the decision not to promulgate the bill on the regulation of legitimate representation of interests, known as the law of the lobby, today we discuss the way forward. We always believe that the opinion of the President of the Republic must deserve this House's respect and weighting. We always understand, then, that the legislative process must deserve the same respect and weighting, because all the precipitation, all the mistakes that can be made here are not meaningful here, but, yes, there it is for all the Portuguese people. The first question you have to ask here is whether, at the end of the Legislature, when there are little more than two months left for the legislators, this is a moment of action or reflection. For PSD, this is the time to stop thinking. We'd rather wait three months and be sure to decide better than to run the risk of deciding wrong because of the rush and the elections. It is not by chance that many of the major problems in the country are to be solved. This is due to decisions justified only by voting hunting, by the concern of some to do and tell people only what they think they like to see and hear. PSD is not like that! [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] On the eve of elections, one cannot move in structural laws, literally on the knee, without time to weigh or hear anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u139	Moreover, the draft amendments submitted do not satisfy the criticisms of the President of the Republic. It has failed 'all' in the obligation to list the interests represented, making no distinction between those who represent interests for profit and those who do so institutionally. UGT ( General Workers Union ) or CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ) may not have the same treatment as any company by quotas. The identification of annual incomes, now proposed, does not correspond to the suggestion. In order to see a lobbying regime established in the Presidency of the Republic similar to that of the Assembly, it remains in the way: the Presidency of the Republic is included in the legal forecast, including the Civil and Military House, the Office of the President and the representatives of the Republic for autonomous regions, but it is intended that they have to make the registers of transparency in a single system, common to all other holders of political positions. The PSD doesn't get into populism and nobody's tow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u141	Because "it quickly and well does no one" — and the draft amendments submitted by the PS and the CDS are well proof of this — we assume the responsibility to say that this is no longer the time to make changes to the lobby law. We will be available to return to the process at the beginning of the next legislature, but now, as it has been time to reflect again, the PSD will vote against the proposed amendments to the lobby law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u142	I now give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Just a short time ago, Mr. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Nuno Magalhães said, and it is true with regard to the Left Block Parliamentary Group that these amendments raised by the President of the Republic would not deserve any change in substance in relation to the position of the parliamentary groups. On the side of the Left Block is exactly like this: we do not change our position. Despite the great respect we have for the comments and requests for assessment made by Mr President of the Republic, we maintain the strongly critical view on this legislative initiative. In fact, we believe that this is an initiative that is far from achieving the attempts that you say you want to achieve. In fact, the legislative footprint that is intended to be obtained through this law is something that is very much beyond what can really be achieved, because, we have no doubt, the ability to influence decision-making in Parliament and in political power does not, most of the time, pass by formal meetings, by formal contacts, and therefore all this ends up being a surface treatment that has no relation to the substance of things and we are, after all, with this law, purely and simply legalizing a business area that is interconnected between interest groups and political power. That is what it is and not something else, and therefore the Left Block maintains its absolute reservation in relation to this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u144	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP maintains its opposition to the approval of the legislation on the so-called lobbying for substantial reasons which are beyond the reasons for disagreement which are invoked by the President of the Republic. In fact, this legislative process stems from an earlier claim by the communications agencies, which intend to see a market niche set up which can offer its potential customers with respect to the representation of their interests with the sovereignty bodies. The CFP, of course, considers that the transparency of the legislative process is a democratic requirement and, in fact, the Assembly itself has fought for this, by the way it has been advertising its work. Today there is widespread publicity of the legislative process, from the outset the votes and discussions in the specialty are public and, of course, the information mechanisms, both in the Assembly of the Republic and in each of the parliamentary groups, are widely publicizing the contacts that are made in the legislative process. Moreover, the entities themselves who address the Assembly of the Republic, expressing their views, are themselves interested in their positions being known and widely publicized. Therefore, this legislative process has nothing to do with this, in fact it has to do with the commercial interests of communications agencies, and then it has come about in an absurd way, when it is treated on an equal footing entities which have even legal rights of participation, as are the trade unions themselves, as if in fact they were communications agencies, which was, in fact, a little stressed, even by Mr Álvaro Batista. The result of this legislative procedure is that the proponents themselves did not understand the fundamental issues for the definition of what they wanted, which led to the fact that the text approved here, after all, had neither feet nor heads and was even vetoed by the President of the Republic. The CFP maintains its position of opposition to this legislative process and will not give its approval to the proposed amendments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u146	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very telegraphically, I would like to emphasise aspects which we believe are important in this final debate. This debate took place without precipitation, a reflection was made for three years, listening to civil society, organizing a parliamentary conference, welcoming contributions from European experience. This is a process that culminated in a veto and this is the normal assessment of a veto, in the final phase, with three surgical amendments to meet the concerns of the President of the Republic. There is no work on the knee, there is the culmination of a logical work which the President of the Republic himself stresses must be achieved and tried still in the course of this legislature. There is no different or identical treatment of what are different things. That is, UGT and CGTP have their object well defined, it is not about this universe, and the law deals differently, saying that they are automatically registered precisely because they have constitutional rights in this matter. It is therefore a missed opportunity at this end of the debate that we will have before us if we do not at least succeed in taking the significant step that would increase transparency, ensure control and, for the first time in the Portuguese legal order, follow the best practices in this area. We therefore appeal to the parliamentary groups—in relation to those who, consistently, have always opposed themselves, of course, respect their position—that they have realized that there is a way to begin to be traced that we can take this step at the end of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on the agenda. We are going to start the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to prepare the electronic system to proceed with the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 210 meetings, to which five are added — those of the MEPs Carlos Peixoto, Clara Marques Mendes and Cristovão Norte, the PSD, João Paulo Correia, the PS, and Francisco Lopes, of the PCP —, making 215 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin with the vote on vote No 871 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and PSD and subscribed by a CDS-PP member ) — Despite the death of André Jorge Dionisio Bradford. I call on Mrs Lara Martinho to read this vote, which I naturally associate myself with.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died yesterday in Ponta Delgada, André Jorge Dionisio Bradford. He was 48 years old and a life of civic surrender and commitment. Graduated in Social and Cultural Communication from the Faculty of Human Sciences of the Catholic University of Lisbon and Master in Political Science and Theory, André Bradford was a journalist of the Diário de Noticias and the oldest newspaper in publication, the Azorian Oriental. His disappearance, under such sudden and unexpected conditions, leaves the greatest dismay on everyone who knew him and on the Azorian people in general. It is an irreparable loss for your family, for your wife, Sweet, and for your children, the youngest of which is only two years old. Militant and leader of the Socialist Party, André Bradford began his civic contribution in public positions in support of the Regional Secretary of the Environment in the Azores, being appointed adviser with functions in the field of external cooperation and later political coordination of the then President of the Regional Government of the Azores, Carlos César. Among other subsequent functions, he was head of office of the current President Vasco Cordeiro. He was a member of the Government and a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Azores, where he chaired the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. It was recently elected and took possession as Portuguese Member in the European Parliament. It was always distinguished by its qualities of ease, intelligence and oratory, associated with a cultural and personal formation of great ethical demand. His contribution to his party, to the quality of the political debate, to democracy and to the valorisation of the Azorian political autonomy is all recognized and praised. The Assembly of the Republic thus shares the sadness over the death of André Bradford, expressing the greatest sorrow and solidarity for his family, his friends, the Azorians in general and his colleagues in the European Parliament ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept a minute's silence.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 861 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Congratulations on the recognition of the Royal Building of Mafra and the Sanctuary of the Good Jesus of Monte in Braga, as World Heritage Site of UNESCO and for the inclusion of the National Museum of Machado de Castro in the site University of Coimbra - Alta and Sofia. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 862 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Congratulations on the classification as a Cultural Heritage of Humanity of the Sanctuary of the Good Jesus, in Braga, the National Palace of Mafra and the Machado National Museum of Castro. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote jointly on Votes Nos 863 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings for the conquest of the world title by the Portuguese Hockey Selection in Patins and 868 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD members ) — Greetings for the conquest, by the National Hockey Selection in Patins, of the World Fashion Championship. In the galleries there are representatives of the federation. I am also taking advantage of these votes. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 864 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS Members ) — From condemnation of the repression and persecution of Christians and Catholics in China. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, 1 PSD (Rubina Berardo) and 6 PS (António Cardoso, Ascension Simões, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Wanda Guimarães), votes against the PCP and abstentions from PSD, PS and Os Verdes.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 865 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and signed by a PS Member ) — Sentencing by the persecution of Uighurs by China. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, 1 PSD (Rubina Berardo) and 5 PS (António Cardoso, Ascension Simões, Nuno Sá, Paulo Pisco and Wanda Guimarães), votes against the PCP and abstentions from PSD, PS and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u152	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u153	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present, on these last two votes, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães also asks for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u155	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make an individual statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u156	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the vote on vote No 866 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Condemning the maintenance and application of the death penalty by Equatorial Guinea. [[Submitted to the vote, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira of 1 PSD (Sérgio Azevedo) of 26 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Ana Passos, António Cardoso, Ascenso Simões, Catarina Marcelino, Maria Conceição Loureiro, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Edito Estrela, Fernando Jesus, Francisco Rocha, Helena Roseta, Hugo Pires, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joaquim Raposo, Jorge Gomes, José Rui Cruz, Marcos Perestrello, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miguel Coelho, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo, Renato Apalio, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Wanda Guimarães, and 10 colleagues from the CDS-PP, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Maria Pedro Bessa, Cecília Meireea, Púcia Mole, Filipe]] Mr. Paulo Neves asks for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u157	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr João Oliveira also asks for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u159	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u160	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Pisco also asks for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u161	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u162	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes asked for the floor. Is it for the same purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u163	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u164	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u165	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u166	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to the vote on vote No 867 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Of praise to Austria for the total prohibition of glyphosate use. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of BE, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from PSS, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on vote No 869 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Condemnation for discriminatory and xenophobic attitudes assumed by a representative of the NAP. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and 1 PS (Assumption Simões), votes against the PAN and PS abstentions, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 5 CDS-PP Members (Ilda Araújo Novo, João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo, Patrícia Fonseca and Pedro Mota Soares).]] Mr. Eurídice Pereira asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u167	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of other Members, we will make a devout statement on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u168	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asks for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u169	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u170	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 870 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Greetings for 50 years from Humanity to the moon. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 1248 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) — First amendment to Law No 23 / 2011 of 20 May 2011 [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Ascenso Simões asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u171	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u172	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote, in general, in the overall specialty and final, of Bill No 1240 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the name « Union of Freguesias de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá », in the municipality of Viseu, to « Freguesia de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2108 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2019 work programme. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were approved.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No 2261 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2018. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 71 / XIII / 3. a — Approves the withdrawal by the Portuguese Republic of the Convention on the Use of Women in Underwork in Mines of Any Category adopted in 19. the General Conference of the International Labour Organization in Geneva on 4 June 1935. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 86/ XIII/4. a — Approves the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities, open for signature in Utreque on 16 November 2009. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2248 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Declaration on the allocation of 1% of the State budget for culture as a goal towards cultural democratisation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u173	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr João Oliveira also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u175	Mr President, it is to inform you that on this and on two more votes I will indicate before, Mrs Ana Mesquita will make an oral statement at the end of the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u176	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u177	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u178	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u179	Mr President, it is to be announced that, on this last vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u180	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2186 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate and adopt measures to combat the impact of light pollution on the environment and that the NAP require its vote by points. Let us begin by voting on points 2 and 3 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote together on the remaining points, i.e. points 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u181	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u183	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Resolution No 2187 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a legislative framework for collective self-consumption and for renewable energy communities. With regard also to this draft resolution, the NAP called for the vote to be taken by points. So we started by voting on points 1, 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u185	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u186	Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote. Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u187	Mr President, asking for the discharge of the Bureau, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, for draft resolution No 2248 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ), our sense of vote is changed to abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u188	Until October 6th, there's a lot to change!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u189	Mr President, this is not very regular, because after that we have already made a number of votes. In any case, since it does not change the final outcome of the vote, it is recorded. It was a PSD mistake. We turn to the vote on item 4 of draft resolution No 2187 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the CFP, votes in favour of the PAN and abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u191	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u192	Mr President, I hope that this will help us solve all the guilds of the previous vote, but we call for the House's condescendence to correct two ways of voting. In the vote on draft resolution No 2186 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN), the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group votes against points 2 and 3 and in favour of points 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, which I believe substantially alters the meaning of the previous vote. in this last vote of draft resolution No 2187 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN ), the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, rectifying, voting in favour of points 1, 2 and 3 and against point 4. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u193	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask your understanding of the work of the Bureau, as we have for the work of the parliamentary groups. It is therefore necessary to repeat the vote on draft resolutions Nos 2186 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) and 2187 / XIII / 4. a (PAN), so that everything is clear. I therefore ask your understanding. Let us then re-vote draft resolution No 2186 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate and adopt measures to combat the impact of light pollution on the environment. Let us begin by voting on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote together on points 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] Let us now vote again on draft resolution No 2187 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a legislative framework for collective self-consumption and for renewable energy communities. Let us vote, firstly, together, on points 1, 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2251 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Consultation with representative entities of fisheries professionals in the development of programmes, plans and projects with an impact on coastal areas. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 276 / XIII / 1. a ( The Greens) — Preparation and presentation of the White Paper on the State of the Environment ( text replaced by the author ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We move on to the Resolution Project No 1031 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — For the depollution of the river Lis river basin. The Left Block called for a separate vote on points 1 and 2 of this initiative. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u196	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1674 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening responses in the area of child health in primary health care. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2266 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that a previous study is conducted to assess the terms of the review of the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the PAN, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2221 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt legislative and regulatory measures aimed at Portuguese elderly people living abroad and immigrants who are in absolute lack of livelihoods or who show enormous fragility. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u198	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u199	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u200	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2233 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — The integration, without salary loss, of the procedural recovery supplement in the salary of the judicial officers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 133 / XIII / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the exploitation and extraction of shale gases and oils. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1388 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government cease the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Peniche basin. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 936 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — Implementation of the trace between Virela-Fornelo defined in the environmental impact study of the hydroelectric use Ribeiradio-Ermida. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1775 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — To protect and safeguard the Battle Monastery by eliminating tolls in A19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u203	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u204	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u205	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote on draft resolution No 2141 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Simplification of access to the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2201 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By setting up a national forage plan. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 2265 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that it proceed to a study on how the benefits set out in Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January 2009 can be attributed to the former local recruiters without contributing career records in the schemes provided for in paragraph 2 of that Act. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] By registering consensus between the banks for this purpose, we now proceed to the joint vote, in general, of the Draft Resolution Nos 2222 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 2240 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government reinstate the officials of the aviation pilots and pilots specialties who, during the period 1988-1992, have been slaughtered in the permanent framework of the Air Force, at its request, because they have not been granted access to the reserve situation or unlimited licence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 885 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government approve the legal diploma defining the cases, forms and terms in which administrative acts may be duly imposed by the administration, in accordance with Decree-Law No 4 / 2015 of 7 January, which approved the Code of Administrative Procedure. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the PSD.]] We will now vote on draft resolution No 1291 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government submit the report on the multiannual strategy for re-qualification and modernization of the prison system in September 2017 in plenary of the Assembly and submit a proposal for an investment programming law in the prison park. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1355 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government implement Article 182. that of the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals in matters of administrative arbitration. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN, and abstentions against the PSD and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1356 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the reassessment and revision of the Justice + Next Plan, taking into account the measures proposed in the Agreements for the Justice System document of January 2018. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the BE, in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1357 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a working group with the aim of studying the revision of the General Comptrollerships Regime, contained in Decree-Law No 433 / 82 of 27 October. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1362 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government set up a commission to review criminal legislation, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to study and implement a compliance control system that allows the criminal liability of the public to be defined. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2090 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Independent audit of the New Bank for the post-resolution period. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 225 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government provide guidance to the tax administration to interpret Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). that of the VAT code in order to consider exempt from the payment of this tax genetic paternity tests. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u207	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we follow draft resolution No 2205 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the sustainability of the Orchestra Generation project. At the request of the PS, we shall first vote on paragraphs 1 and 3 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote now paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed with the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 2217 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promptly decide to classify the building of the former Factory of Saboaria and Perfumaria Trust and 2237 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the early completion of the process of classification of the building of the Factory Trust. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2241 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedure necessary for the classification of the building set composed of the briquettes factory and the tilted plan of the Espadanal Mine in Rio Major, as a heritage of public interest. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2242 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedure necessary for the classification of the Salinas de Rio Major as a property of national interest. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2262 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the classification of the work of José Afonso as of national interest. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Ascension Simões and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u210	The PS was surpassed on the left by the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u211	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u212	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u213	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u215	Mr President, it is to be announced that this is one of the votes on which the oral statement by Mrs Ana Mesquita will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Edite Estrela, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u217	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u218	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Margarida Mano, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u219	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u220	Oral or written, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u221	Written, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u222	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 1693 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates on November 20 as National Day of Host Families. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Oh, really?The Block, the PCP and the Greens abstained?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u223	It's not national days that go there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u224	We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt positive action measures for workers with disabilities and oncological diseases. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Ascension Simões and votes against the PS.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2250 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of the school park. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1619 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Conducting a rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the PSD Member Paula Teixeira da Cruz and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1620 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Implementation of measures to strengthen the capacity of intervention of child and youth protection committees ( CPCJ ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u225	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u226	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u227	Mr President, the vote script indicates that the vote was requested by the Left Block by points of the following motion for a resolution, which did not happen. The CDS made this request, but on the part of the Block we have no doubt about how we will vote on our draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u228	Thus, with regard to the Draft Resolution No 2268 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Development of the deinstitutionalisation plan for disabled people, there is a request from the CDS to be voted on by points. We begin by voting on paragraph 1 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] The vote on points ( b) and ( c) of paragraph 2 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected and votes against BE and PAN.]] Finally, we voted points ( a ), ( d ) and ( e ) of paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u230	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u231	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u232	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2267 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Promotion and guarantee the accessibility of persons with disabilities to rail transport. At the request of the PSD, we shall first vote on paragraphs 1, 2 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were adopted and votes against the PS.]] We then voted on paragraph 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u234	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u235	It is to announce that on this vote too, the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u236	Be registered. We will vote on draft resolution No 2081/ XIII/4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the triangulation of agri-food markets in the outermost regions of Portugal. [[The vote was taken by the votes of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs Lara Martinho asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u237	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u238	Be registered. We shall proceed to vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 2220 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government compensate the Avelino Mateus Ferreira family under the same terms as the fire victims of the 15 and 16 October 2017 and 2236 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government compensate for the death of Avelino Mateus Ferreira in the same manner as the other victims of the 2017 fires, thus ending with a situation of extreme injustice. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 2234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the integration of Poceirão and Marateca in Palmela municipality as disadvantaged areas. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of the Deputies of PS André Pinotes Baptista, Catarina Marcelino, Eurídice Pereira and Sofia Araújo and abstentions from PSD and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u239	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u240	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u241	Mr President, it is to inform that the members of the Socialist Party elected by the Setúbal district will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u242	We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 624 / XIII / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of judicial costs. In the script, the previous diploma, Draft Resolution No. 2255 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) is indicated as having been withdrawn from the vote. So the announcement I just made remains true. Let us therefore vote on draft resolution No 624 / XIII / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] The vote on draft resolution 659 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the abstention of BE.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Let's vote on draft resolution No 666 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government review the system of access to law and courts and the Rules of Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] Mrs. Members, in view of the outcome of the votes that have taken place, having only been adopted, on the same subject, a resolution, it does not need to go down to 1. the Commission, as has been said, and what I ask you is that we confirm in a comprehensive vote this vote. If the result is equal to the above, the Resolution Project No. 659 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) shall be given as approved. We shall then vote in a global vote on draft resolution No 659 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure shall be given as approved. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the abstention of BE.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 2188 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — The situation of readers in Portuguese universities and 2247 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the integration of public higher education institutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u243	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u244	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u245	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u246	Be registered. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 303 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — By a public and inclusive school in all compulsory education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the PSD.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1673 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government study the possibility of introducing sex into pre-school education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u247	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u248	Mr Porfirio Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u249	Mr President, to report that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u250	Be registered. The vote on draft resolution 2084 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of dramatic expression and theatre. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 2116 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that the higher education assessment system be standardized, safeguarding the most favourable treatment principle. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 914/ XIII/2 shall follow. a (The Greens) — On the development of the national education programme for sustainability. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 913 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — Recommends implementation of a scheme similar to that of school library coordinators/ resource centres for Eco-school project coordinators. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The following is the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions No 2243 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Salary indexes of teachers of special techniques of artistic secondary schools and 2249 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Respect for the rights of teachers of specialized artistic education. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2151 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Promotes the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was something in the script that I can't explain, I'm just seeing. I wonder if, in relation to the matter of sleep, there is more than a draft resolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u251	Do the vote first!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u252	I am still speaking, if Mr. João Oliveira will allow me. We will vote on draft resolution No 2151 / XIII / 4. a and, depending on the result, we will see whether the result of the previous vote will have to be convolved, if any, to a possible drop to the Commission. We'll know soon enough. With no further initiatives on the same subject, we will proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2151 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Promotes the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking their places back. [[Pause.]] Let us then vote on draft resolution No 2151 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u253	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u254	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u255	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u256	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u257	Please, Mrs. Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u258	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u259	Be registered. Mrs. Members, if no one raises the need for the confirmatory vote of draft resolution No 1673 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government study the possibility of introducing the sixth in pre-school education, give as a definitive to that which has recently taken place and we will move forward in our script. [[Pause.]] With no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1609 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Guarantee of public and inclusive school throughout compulsory education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Then we will vote on draft resolution No 1621 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the prevention and safety of associative buildings, the text of which has been replaced by the author. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2258 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recognizes the strategic importance of the new public central hospital of Alentejo and the political commitment to the award of the construction work as soon as its competition is completed. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 2260 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen public health response in the Beja district. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and PS Pedro do Carmo and Norberto Patinho and PS and Non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u260	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u261	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u262	Mr President, it is to announce that on behalf of the CDS I will present a written vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u263	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2007 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government publish the diploma establishing the legal regime for the prevention of soil contamination and remedy. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Then we will vote on draft resolution No 1086 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, at the social level, a debate with a view to including the right to disconnect, either in the Labour Code or in the collective labour regulation instruments. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The following is the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 2227 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Promotion of training in the area of life support and resuscitation and 2252 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the teaching of basic life support in schools. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on European Affairs on draft resolutions Nos 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject the amendment of the European Union decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for qualified majority and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy in the process of building the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u265	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u266	Mr. President, your owner. Draft Resolution No 2005 / XIII / 4. it's assigned to the PCP but it's PSD and we don't want to keep other credits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u267	I confess, Mr Deputy, that, when I was reading the statement, I thought: « but what a new convergence». Everything is clear. For what it consists, urbi et orbi, the first Resolution Project is the CDS and the second is the PSD. Thus, convergence is better understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u268	Everything like you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u269	We shall then vote in a global final vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on European Affairs, on draft resolutions Nos 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject the amendment of the European Union decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for qualified majority and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy within the European Union's construction process. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote, in the overall final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on European Affairs on draft resolutions No 1887 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a contingency action plan to take urgent measures to mitigate the overall impacts of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union and 1928 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a contingency action plan to minimize the effects and consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 2134 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the National Network of Resistance Museums and installation of the Museum of Resistance and Freedom in Porto and 2137 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the relocation of the Port Military Museum to implement the « From Heroism to Firmeza - Museum of Antifascist Resistance of the Port ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft Law No 1121 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing debt regulation mechanisms for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] We shall also proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft Law No 1173/ XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Legal Scheme for the Evaluation of Higher Education. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] In the overall final vote, we shall also vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 2172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a plan to combat territorial desertification, 2219 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to defend and promote the assembly as a system of great ecological and economic value and 2229 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government to promote specific measures for the defence of the mounting of envelopes and bearings. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PCP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u271	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u272	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall continue with the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 1870 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of urgent regulatory measures to protect species of seahorses in Portugal, 1934 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of monitoring and the definition of habitat protection measures of Ria Formosa, 2171 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify seahorses as protected species and raise shrines in the Ria Formosa for their recovery, 2180 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect the populations of seahorses and which constitute areas of protection of these species, 2209 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of safeguard measures for the populations of seahorses in the Formosa Ria and 2216 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government draw up and implement a management plan for species and habitats in the Ria Formosa Natural Park. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As we see in this case, as in so many others, in view of the way the script is drawn up, we know the titles of the draft resolutions that are withdrawn, but not the title of the replacement text that we have voted on. This must ever be perfected. We turn to the overall final vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions No 2093 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the implementation of measures to defend national milk production, 2175 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to support the Portuguese dairy sector, 2207 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Information campaign on the qualities of milk and its health benefits and 2215 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to support the dairy sector. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Les Verde, against the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 2208 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Development of a data collection system relating to the prices and market of the food supply chain and 2214 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government react to the Observatory on Agricultural Markets and Agri-Food Imports. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on European Affairs, on draft resolutions No 1269 / XIII / 3, follows. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promptly define the policy guidelines for the negotiation of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 and 1648 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 1783 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — For the extension of the maximum support period of the Salary Compensation Fund for Spouse Fishing Professionals and other locations where similar situations occur and 1806 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the maximum stop-over period from 60 to 90 days for payment of wage compensation to fishermen in the Esponende municipality and other areas of the country. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 1843 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently adopt a simplified procedure for supporting the victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which occurred in August 2018, 1856 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a simplified procedure to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018, and 1867 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and dissemination of simplified procedures to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 5 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça and Pedro do Carmo) and abstentions by the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft resolutions Nos 2020 / XIII / 4, follows. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination of studies on populations of wild boars in the national territory and damage caused to farmers and the development of a plan of measures to control populations of this species and 2031 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the territorial distribution of the population of boar in Portugal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote in favour of the CDS-PP and the CFP, the vote against the PAN and the abstentions of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u274	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u275	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u276	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u277	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1048 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Law on the basis of the human right to adequate food and nutrition. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the PAN and the abstention from the CFP.]] We also vote, in general, the Bill No. 918 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Determines the eligibility of feeding of errant animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u278	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u279	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u280	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u281	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the Proposal for a Law No 203 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the land structure regime. [[Subject to the vote, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira voted in favour of the PSDP, against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the Proposal for a Law No 180 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alteration of various tax codes. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u282	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u283	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u284	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u285	Be registered. We will now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 2071 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to the Government to deal with the crisis in the textile sector and 2098 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to defend the textile and clothing sector in the areas of Ave and Cávado. Although this is a final text, the PSD and the CFP requested the vote on paragraph 3 ( b ). There are several developments, but I suppose there is consensus on the indications in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u287	We will then proceed in this way. Let us first vote on paragraph 3 ( b) of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 2071 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 2098 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to BE and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall then vote on points (a), (c) and (d) and the body of paragraph 3 of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and CDS-PP abstains were adopted.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on paragraphs 4 and 5 of the final text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote on paragraphs 1, 2 and 6 to 8 of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention were adopted.]] In fact, when it comes to a vote in plenary, there should still be a comprehensive final vote if someone so requires. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we are voting for the vote that has just taken place. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions No 1752 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — By expanding and improving the operational capacity of the Horta Airport track, 1762 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Horta Airport, 1765 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the improvement and expansion of Horta Airport, 1766 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension of the Horta Airport track and 1769 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent re-qualification of Horta Airport. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then have the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on draft resolutions Nos 1952 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By defence, qualification and promotion of public inland waterway transport service in Transtejo and Soflusa companies, 1953 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the signing of a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflusa and the approval of a multiannual investment plan 2019 - 2022, 1957 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of a public service of quality and efficient in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa and 1959 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the improvement of the public transport service carried out by Transtejo / Soflusa. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the Proposal for a Law No 82 / XIII / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July regulating the allocation of social mobility allowance to the beneficiary citizens, in the context of air and maritime services, between the Continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between it and the Autonomous Region of Azores, pursuing objectives of social and territorial cohesion. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall then vote in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft Law No 956 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Promotion and development of ecotourism. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Education and Science Committee on Bills Nos 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education in public education and 1218 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Free school textbooks for students who attend compulsory education in the public education network of the Ministry of Education ( second amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u288	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u289	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u290	Mr President, this is the last of the three initiatives on which the oral statement by Mrs Ana Mesquita, which I announced at the beginning of the work, will cover.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u292	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the CDS board will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u293	Be registered. Mrs. Margarida Mano, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u294	Mr President, I would also like to state that we will present a written statement of vote on the final text that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u295	Be registered. Mrs. Margarida Balsairo Lopes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u296	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u297	Will the honourable Member present or will we present?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u298	Mr President, I shall make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. It is in order to distinguish between the declaration of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group and the declaration on its own behalf. We shall then vote, in a global final vote, on another final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 2051 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Higher education for children of Portuguese immigrants and 2055 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government clarify procedures for attracting Luso-descendant and emigrant candidates to Portuguese higher education institutions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 2019 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Fajões, of the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, Aveiro district, 2025 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Fajões in Oliveira de Azemés, allocating all the necessary financial resources and 2112 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Beans, municipality of Oliveira de Azemés. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] There are no requests for a word to support the request that we will then begin to appreciate, we will vote on this same request, submitted by the PCP, for the plenary of the vote, in the specialty, of the Bill No. 1120 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary temporary accommodation plan for students in public higher education. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the specialty vote, it may be as shown in the script, i.e. there are no amendments which have arrived at the Bureau. It is therefore necessary to vote on the block text in the specialty. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u300	That's right, it's for the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u301	Thus, we proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of the Bill No. 1120 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary temporary accommodation plan for students in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The legislative process of this initiative ends here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u303	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u304	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u305	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u307	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u308	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u309	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceeded to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 1030 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the Legal Regime of Replacement Management ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ). We shall then, in general, vote on this replacement text, since at the time the draft law fell to the Commission without a vote, in general. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, of the BE, of The Greens, of the PAN, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 21 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Álvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Antonio Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Emilia Cerqueira, Fatima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Germana Rocha, Laura Magalhães, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Regina Bastos, Rubina Berardo, Sara Madruga da Costa, Sandra Pereira, Susana Lamas, Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD, CDS-PP and PCP and 6 abstentions from PSD (Antonio Costa Silva, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Cristóvão Norte, Duarte Marques, Joana Barata Lopes and Teresa Morai).]] There is now a request submitted by BE for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 2. that of the replacement text which has just been voted on in general. We shall vote on this request for a lawyer by the plenary. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In additional indent I, we now have the speciality of Article 2. that of the said replacement text. I ask the parliamentary groups if they wish to sign up for the floor, and the Bureau will grant a two-minute period. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Parliament the Assembly of the Republic has been able to approve, and now confirm, a regime of substitution pregnancy, which is indeed the only opportunity for, for example, women without uterus to be biological mothers, to be able to access assisted reproductive procedures. This regime was brought to the Constitutional Court, which considered it in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, said it was consistent with the fundamental values and rights of all parties involved. However, he also said that it was necessary to change the period of revocation of the consent of the pregnant woman that was initially envisaged and, without that amendment, everything is suspended, i.e., the regime is legal, exists in the law, but it is not possible to access it. of the various amendments submitted by the Left Block to comply with this regime with the Constitution and with the Constitutional Court judgment and the various proposals which were discussed in particular, the amendment of the revocation of consent was not approved. Therefore, this replacement text, which we have now approved in general, does not contain this recommendation from the Constitutional Court and we fear that, without containing this recommendation from the Constitutional Court, the whole regime of the replacement pregnancy remains suspended, despite the law. For this reason, we now request the full appeal of the Left Block proposal, which amends the period of revocation of the consent of the pregnant woman, to be until the period of registration of the child, which is the interpretation of the Constitutional Court,... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ... so that we can have a regimen of replacement pregnancy, legal and accessible to all women. So we appeal to all the parties, to all the ladies and gentlemen. Members, to approve this proposal, which we advocate, to make this regime not only legal but also accessible to those who need access. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u311	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after years and years of a legislative course, today we are finally going to meet the Constitutional Court to end the nightmare of people who cannot have children, even though there is a scientific method to overcome this fatality. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I also appeal, because this is the last attempt they have to be mothers and parents. I appeal to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, because we're talking about birth, because we're talking about the right to happiness, which we're not waiting for tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u313	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the principle that governs this idea of the belly of rent or the pregnancy of replacement is a kind idea, it is a kind principle: to help in the project of having children who cannot, at all, have children, I have no doubt that we all here embrace the intention, in the thesis. And putting science to the service of man is a principle that has made mankind progress, and that is a good thing. But not always, ladies and gentlemen. Members, science can solve all problems, and often confront ethical issues that are absolutely insurmountable. That is exactly the problem in this case. The Constitutional Court, at the request of the CDS, said that the mother of replacement should be treated with dignity and therefore should be able to repent. Therefore, the Left Block has made the amendment which it has now tabled. There is only one problem that, too, is insurmountable: by protecting the mother of substitution we protect the child, who remains in a limbo, daughter of no one, until the time passes for the mother of replacement to repent. And leaving the child in this situation is absolutely unacceptable! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u315	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u316	Mr President, I would ask you to moderate the hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u317	Mrs. Deputy, you're absolutely right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the matter is relevant, you deserve sufficient consideration to hear all the arguments that have to be expressed. [[PSD and PS applause.]] You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u318	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's the tolerant left working! Open... I would say, Mr President, that leaving the child in such a situation is absolutely unacceptable from any point of view. She's a child, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither a doll nor the object of a contract that everyone can reject or that everyone can want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u319	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we repeat what we have always said: for many times they give, this law will always be unconstitutional. If we protect the mother of substitution, we protect the child; if we protect the child, we protect the mother of substitution; if we protect the parents, we protect the mother of substitution! And I could continue out there, ad nausea. Therefore, it is impossible to protect all interests in the presence, which are constitutionally protected. And they barre with each other in such a way that it's impossible for them to give in to each other. This is therefore an impossible institute that will never be viable. The CDS will never cease to submit this law to the constitutional clemency. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u320	Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regulation of the replacement pregnancy continues to raise a number of issues which cannot fail to be considered in all its dimensions. This is a matter involving those who resort to pregnancy of substitution, who accept to do so and the child. In the hearings carried out within the working group, besides having been corroborated doubts expressed in previous legislative processes, several uncertainties were raised regarding the solutions now presented. This was even assumed by the President of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, who said: « Solutions tighten the mesh », but « probably do not solve problems ». Or, moreover, what has been said by another Professor, saying that he continues to resolve the impossibility of monitoring — and I quote — «undeclared payments», even though the law prohibits the existence of contracts with economic motives. The pregnancy of substitution has physical and psychic implications that cannot be ignored and that require an added reflection: the direct intervention of a third person, another woman who intervenes deeply in the pregnancy process, introduces a set of potential conflicts and ethical issues that need to be considered and that, once again, in this process, have not been resolved. The CFP Parliamentary Group will vote against this initiative, not because of insensitivity to the legitimate desire to be a mother, by the universe of women to whom this legislative initiative is intended, but because it considers that the proposal does not resolve the central issues which continue to be important and essential and which make this legal instrument impossible. [[PCP and CDS-PP Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u322	Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft Law No 1030 / XIII / 4. the, of the Left Block, arose following, as we all know, the Constitutional Court judgment which declared the unconstitutionality of some of the rules of Law No. 32 / 2006 in the wording that is currently in force, in particular in the part in which it was consecrated the impossibility of the replacement pregnant woman to revoke her consent after the initiation of the therapeutic procedures for the production of assisted medicinal products. This project was generally discussed at the end of last year and was then downloaded to the Health Committee without a vote for the purpose of assessing the specialty. The Left Block has now proposed the admissibility of the replacement pregnant woman to be able to revoke her consent freely until the end of the legally scheduled period for the registration of the child born, i.e. within 20 days after the birth of the child. The PSD Parliamentary Group agreed to recognize the freedom to vote for its Members in general the rules contained in this Bill No 1030 / XIII / 4. the, takes note of the nature of the matter in it constants, as we have seen. However, the same cannot be maintained with regard to the new system of revocation of consent of the proposed replacement pregnancy. In fact, this proposal, to be approved, would allow the replacement pregnant woman to assume, herself, the motherhood of the child, thus legitimizing the possibility of frustration of carrying out the parental project of the authors, for the exclusive benefit of those who had intervention in the process on a purely gestational basis. That is, it allows the replacement pregnant woman to assume the maternity of a child whose genetic material does not belong to her.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u324	It's true! [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u325	As the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences has well warned, with this legal formulation — and I quote — «the ethical issues raised will be even worse, since the position of the beneficiary couple is totally disregarded and the fate of the child coming to birth will be even more uncertain».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u327	The same Council also warns that — and I quote — "the possible revocation of the contract, which requires the pregnant woman of substitution to assume the maternity of the child born, may open a conflict with the woman author of the project, who had been a donor of the female gaméta, thus confronting the gestational connection with the intentional and genetic pregnancy that does not find the solution in the project under consideration and is clearly detrimental, in our view, to the rights of the child". in this respect, the PSD Parliamentary Group does not intend to follow in particular the wording now given to the rules of Articles 8. o and 14. this initiative, which, on the one hand, call into question the best interest of the child who will come to be born, given the uncertainty that it is made around its destiny and, on the other hand, disregards its genetic link with the authors of the parental project, whose position is completely postponed for the sole benefit of the replacement pregnant woman. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u328	There has been little reference to Article 2. that of the replacement text, but it should be pointed out that this Article 2 is clear. it relates to the amendment of Article 14. Law No 32 / 2006. With this clarification we shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the Block on the Left, amending Article 14. the Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and with votes in favour of the PS, BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 Amendment to Law No 32/2006 of 26 July Article 14 of Law No 32/2006 of 26 July, as amended by Laws No 59/2007 of 4 September 17 /2016 of 20 June, 25/2016 of 22 August, 58/2017 of 25 July, 49/2018 of 14 August and 48/2019 of 8 July, is replaced by the following: ‘Article 14 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — (...) 4 — (...) 5 — The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall apply to the pregnant woman in the situations provided for in Article 8 and, in these cases, the consent of the pregnant woman freely revocable until the registration of the child born. 6 — (...).’]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the speciality in the Commission of the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us turn to the overall final vote on that text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, of the BE, of The Greens, of the PAN, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 22 PSD (Alvaro Batista, Ana Oliveira, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Antonio Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Emídio Guerreiro, Emília Cerqueira, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Germana Rocha, Laura Magalhães, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Regina Bastos, Rubina Berardo, Sara Madruga da Costa, Sandra Pereira, Susana Lamas and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the PSD, CDS-PP and the PCP and abstentions of 5 PSD (Antonio Costa Silva, Cristóvão Norte, Duarte Marques, Joana Barata Lopes and Teresa Moles).]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now interrupt our work, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that we still have a long line of votes ahead and, in the context of that script, there will still be votes that will require the electronic registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u329	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u330	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u331	Mr President, it is only to correct the vote of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which does not change the outcome, with regard to the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft Law No 1121 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) - Change Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing debt regularization mechanisms for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions. The PSD vote shall be abstention and not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u332	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's interrupt the work. [[It was 13 hours and 45 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u333	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is reopened. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public, please. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on the speciality and the overall final vote on this diploma will be adversely affected. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act ; [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP.]] The vote on the speciality and the overall final vote on this bill will also be adversely affected. The general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases Act and the Drafts of Law No. 914 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — New Health Bases Act, 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act, 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act and 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act. Mrs Jamila Madeira asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u334	Mr. President, to be precise, the title of this replacement text should be corrected because it does not understand the PSD bill and the CDS bill, which have just been rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u335	Madam Member, thank you very much for your legal and political accuracy. Therefore, we shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases Act and the Drafts of Law Nos 914 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — New Health Bases Act and 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on an application by the PS for a vote by the plenary of the vote on Article 3. that of that text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before that vote, and as required, speeches will be made on behalf of the parliamentary groups that have signed up to that end, each of which is available for two minutes. [[Pause.]] Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we discuss the Health Bases Act and this is an essential moment for the defense of the National Health Service ( SNS ) above all to change the paradigm that the current Basics Law brings us. The current Basics Act seeks to ensure that the State supports private development and creates the conditions for mobility between the public and the private. This paradigm has to change. Therefore, our proposal today aims to be the way to add all the true defenders of the National Health Service. The country, the Portuguese require us a new Health Bases Act, a Basics Law that places the focus on citizens, which places the financial reinforcement of the SNS as the primary, which involves the movement of human resources to the private. Throughout this legislative process, the Socialist Party has always sought to make an additional effort of construction, dialogue and, at all times, we have worked for a solution, and all those who have brought contributions to the table are very welcome. We have always sought to find the common denominator that allows us to move forward and see today a new Health Bases Act approved. This amendment proposal is another contribution in this sense that, waiting for Portuguese and Portuguese outside, they demand us, on behalf of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u337	Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block always knew that the National Health Service could not live with a Health Bases Act that obliged the State to divert public resources to support the health business, which obliged the National Health Service to abdicate its professionals to feed the private sector, which provided for the possibility of privatizing the National Health Service or that it placed the private in competition with the public. That is why in this Parliament we have opened a debate in the Assembly of the Republic for a new Health Bases Act. We said that the Health Bases Law of Cavaco Silva, the Health Bases Law of the PSD and CDS-PP, should be referred to its proper place, which was the trash can of history, and from which, in fact, it should never have left. But we said more: we said, for example, that the first project, which resulted from a working group appointed by the government, did not serve the purposes. In fact, this project was even assimilated by the right and has just been rejected in the previous votes. We have also said that the proposed law that was submitted by the Government to this House of the Republic was insufficient and therefore we have always committed ourselves in the debate, in the specialty, to create the Basics Law that the National Health Service effectively needs and deserves: a Law of Basics which has supplety of the private and social sector in relation to the public sector, a Law of Basics which includes the right to careers worthy of the professionals of the National Health Service, a Law of Basics which obliges the State to finance, with the necessary resources, the National Health Service, and a Law of Basics which repeals the decree of Durão Barroso that allowed the establishment of several public-private partnerships, a real challenge for the National Health Service. We have always been, in this debate, as we will be in the future debate, in favour of the implementation of all these measures and that this law, which will now be approved, is applied in practice and revitalizes the SNS we want in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u339	Mr Carla Cruz has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, throughout the discussion process of the new Health Bases Act, the PCP fought for the defense and appreciation of the National Health Service. We worked seriously and actively, putting the objective of a progressive review of the Health Bases Act in front of the claim of political-party gains and refusing media operations that put this work at stake. We fought for the best solutions to defend users and the SNS and, with this persistence, we also found the solution to the last problem that prevented the approval of a new Health Bases Act. The defense and appreciation of the SNS are inseparable from the public nature of its management. Not being the proposal of the CFP, the proposal now under discussion makes it possible to affirm the principle of public management of the SNS and its universal and general nature by repealing legislation on the public-private partnership regime. The repeal of PPP legislation (public-private partnerships) is not a detail, on the contrary, is a decisive element. PPPs have proved harmful for the use of public money, for patients and for SNS, subverting their nature. Consecrating the public management of SNS establishments is a central issue, as it is one of the pillars of defending the rights of users, professionals and the country. The implementation of this principle will require decisive action in the future, particularly with regard to the rules to be adopted. The Health Bases Act adopted in 1990, and still in force, opened the door to promiscuity between the public sector and the large economic groups operating in health. With the new Health Bases Act, which we will approve today, we strengthen the SNS, the rights of users and professionals and create conditions to advance the guarantee of universality of the right to health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u341	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time to revive the history that brought the Health Bases Act to the discussion and vote today. At this moment, we live the blackest phase of the history of the National Health Service with the degradation of users' access, a growing social tension of professionals and the dehumanization of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] And the united left, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block, everything promised and everything failed, and all Portuguese pay! The Block and then the PS and PCP began to realize, about a year ago, the sad state in which they would leave the National Health Service. So they began to generate how they would wash the face of the shame of misfortune in how they would leave the SNS and how they would divert the attention of the Portuguese. And here is the debate about the Health Bases Law, the perfect smoking curtain to avoid talking about the problems faced by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u343	Be respectful, be respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u344	From the moment the discussion was opened, the PSD, responsible for a law that lasted 30 years, could not miss the debate and presented a bill that allowed us to see the future of the SNS, a future with more than 30 years of this law: we strengthened the rights of the patients in our proposal, we put on policies to support aging, in mental health policies, continuous care, palliative end-of-life care, of rights for people with disabilities and in vulnerability, we proposed a change in the philosophy of the National Health Service with the commitment to prevention and health promotion, we put on reforms in management with financing models based on health outcomes. The united Left gentlemen voted against all the proposals of the Democratic Social Party. And it is this united left that presents today a final text that is legally worse than the previous law: in nothing modernizes the vision of the National Health Service and does not solve any of the problems that patients face in the National Health Service. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u345	And as for the issue of private people, which was the only thing they cared about, the text says neither one thing nor the other thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u346	It's not even meat, it's not fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u347	In the same sentence it prohibits and allows private management!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u348	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u349	I will finish, Mr. President. 48 hours ago, Mrs. Minister of Health said in this House that the private will continue to operate in the National Health Service. And what did the Block and the PCP do? They've lowered their eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u350	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u351	The Unified Left Health Bases Act does not address the needs of patients. They did nothing for the people, they did everything for the power. This is the brand that management leaves in Portugal, so PSD votes against! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u352	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Galríça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u353	Mr President, the adoption of the text before us today represents the closure of a case and a missed opportunity for the Portuguese. The text is clearly inadequate, it is insufficient to meet the challenges of modernity that are profiled for the health of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u354	For the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u355	It is a hand full of nothing that you come here to exhibit because, in fact, you know as well as we do that pushes for the regulatory process and for the next legislature a set of issues that are crucial. You don't say anything about that! The final result, which we are discussing here today, is a blanket of flaps without consistency, omits in matters crucial to the health of Portuguese. This was a law made to pressure, in a process in zigzag, sinuous and irresponsible, which will condemn the Portuguese to the worst results in the future, when we needed a document with vision, which would point to the future, a document with modernity. In fact, we said again that what you did here was to promote a missed opportunity, because you launched a smoking curtain, you made a scene, you created an illusion that you would bring the solution to the health problems of the Portuguese, which have worsened with you these four years. It will not be this law that will resolve access to health care and the quality of health care, and you, comfortably seated there, are responsible for what is happening today in the health of Portuguese. [[BE's protests.]] The approval of this text of the Basic Law, this version of the flap blanket is a scene, it is an illusion that harms the Portuguese, and with it the CDS does not compromise. The CDS will continue to defend access to health, from north to south of the country. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This bothers you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u356	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u357	I shall finish, Mr President, if you have the same tolerance as you have had with the interruptions of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u358	Same tolerance as ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u359	The CDS defends access to the right and protection of health. The CDS defends a broad-based social state in which everyone can contribute so that, indeed, there is no discrimination in access to health as there is today. That is why we will continue to fight and that is why we denounce this illusion, which is the approval of a pseudo Health Bases Act in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u360	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider today to be an important day for the country, for Portuguese and for the National Health Service. In our perspective, contrary to what the PSD says, this law puts an end to the black period of the National Health Service, which, in fact, reached its peak with the previous government, the PSD / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u362	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u363	In fact, on the one hand, there is one who cares about the users and on the other, there is one who sees customers, that is, who looks at a right and who looks at a business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u364	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u365	That is why we do not understand what Mrs. Deputy of the CDS Isabel Galriza Neto says when she speaks in « a hand full of nothing». [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] If it is « a hand full of nothing», why so much anger, so much grief and so much discomfort on the part of the PSD and the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u366	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u367	We understand why! We understand why! [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the consensus reached on the left, now hoping that this new Health Bases Act will respond to the concerns that have been expressed by the Greens since the beginning of this process. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] In other words, we hope that the new Health Bases Act represents an important instrument to reverse the trend of underfinancing to which the National Health Service has been subject for decades, particularly during the government in which the CDS has had many and great responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u368	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u369	... that can represent an instrument to respect and value health professionals and finally to take an important step to end the promiscuity that is installed between the public sector and the private sector with health interests. This means putting the private sector in the right place, i.e., having a merely residual role in relation to the National Health Service, and therefore we say that today is an important day for the Portuguese, the country and the National Health Service. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u370	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the special vote on the proposal tabled by the PS, amending Article 3. the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[(a) Law No 48/90 of 24 August in its current wording; 2 — The provisions of point (b) of the previous paragraph shall take effect on the entry into force, within 180 days of the development legislation laying down the terms of the public management of the SNS establishments, in accordance with Base Law, Base VI.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u371	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality, within the Commission, concerning the same replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote, in the overall final vote, on the text of the replacement tabled by the Health Committee on the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases Act and the Drafts of Law Nos 914 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — New Health Bases Act and 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[On the stand, applause from the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u372	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u373	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u374	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's bench will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u375	A written vote statement, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u376	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u377	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u378	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u379	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u380	Mr President, it is to announce that we will make an oral statement at the end of the vote by Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u381	Mr President, we do not know what time it will be, but it is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u382	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u383	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u384	Mr President, it is to inform you that Mrs Cruz will also make an oral vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u385	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u386	The honourable Member is asking for a word again for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u387	Mr President, I would like to correct my statement just now, to say that our statement of vote will also be oral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u388	The honourable Member, recently, has, therefore, been misled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u389	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u390	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u391	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u392	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u393	Mr President, I would like to say that we will also make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u394	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u395	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u396	Mr Nuno Magalhães also wants to announce that he will present an oral vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u397	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u398	Be registered. We then move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 555 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensure parental care for childbirth, 563 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — The second amendment is made to Law No. 15 / 2014 of 21 March, in order to strengthen the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and puerpera woman after admission, 872 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Preconception protection regime, assisted drug procreation, pregnancy, childbirth, birth and puerperium and 1034 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The second amendment of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 strengthening the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth is adopted. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No. 997 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the autonomy of hospital entities integrated in the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1904 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the adoption of legislative and sensitization measures related to cardiac resuscitation, 1951 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Training plan in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, 1955 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government introduce compulsory training in secondary education on basic life support-external automatic defibrillation « SBV - DAE » and 2163 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Promotion of basic life support procedures. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[At this time, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u399	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 2190 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Extension of the free availability of insulin continuous infusion system to individuals aged 18 years and 2211 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the participation of the continuous infusion system of insulin ( SPCI ) for control of diabetes mellitus for older than 18 years. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1889 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of an integrated continuous care unit and rehabilitation at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, 1903 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, thus increasing the number of public beds on this network, and 1956 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — The implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão (Penacova). [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members voted in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN and abstained from PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u400	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u401	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u402	Mr President, in order to correct the vote of the Socialist Party Members elected by the Coimbra electoral circle, who vote in favour of this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u403	So which Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group are voting differently?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u404	Mr. President, it is Mr. Pedro Coimbra, Mr. Elza Pais and Mr. Cristina Jesus.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u405	So there are three Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group who vote in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u406	Mr. President, there is a fourth Member who was sitting here, but who is temporarily absent... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u407	Mr President, there is nothing I can do about this anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u408	Mr President, there are three Members who vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u409	Mrs. Members, to put a bit of order, I would like to summarize that there are three Members of the Socialist Party who vote in favour, Members Pedro Coimbra, Elza Pais and Cristina Jesus, as well as two Members of the Social Democratic Party. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour, please stand up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u410	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u411	Mrs. Deputy, please say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u412	Mr President, there are also three PSD Members, elected by Coimbra, who vote in favour of myself, Mrs Ana Oliveira and Mrs Margarida Mano, who have now gone away, momentarily... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u413	It's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u414	Mr President, I also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u415	Mrs. Members of the PSD parliamentary group therefore vote in favour of the honourable Members. Mr Ana Oliveira, Mr Fatima Ramos and Mr Mauricio Marques, which obviously does not change the meaning of the vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, of 3 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Fátima Ramos and Mauritius Marques) and 3 PS (Christina Jesus, Elza Pais and Pedro Coimbra) and PSD, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, we now have for a joint vote two requests submitted by the BE and the PCP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 2. the final text, submitted by the Health Committee, concerning the Bill No. 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote together, in the speciality, the proposals submitted by BE and the CFP, amending Article 2. that of the same final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD abstention.]] [[Article 2 Amendment to Decree-Law No. 113/2011 of 29 November. Article 8 of Decree Decree-Law No. 113/2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 was amended as follows: Article 8 Amendment proposal submitted by BE Article 2 Amendment to Decree-Law No. 113/2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 of the following Amended Amendment to Decree Decree-Law No. 2 Amendment to Decree-Law No. 113/2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November is replaced by the following wording: Article 8 Moderate rate collection provision No. 2 Amendment to Decree-Law No. 113/2011 of 29 November Article 8 of Decree-Law No. 11 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November 2011 of 29 November is replaced by the following the following the following text: Article 8, Article 8 Moderated provision of moderate rates of moderater charging of moderate rates of moderate rates is exempted under the following Article 8 of Law No. Article 8 Article 8 of Law No. Article 8 of Law No. Article 8 of Law No. 2 Amended the following the following the following the following: Amend were the following amendment: Amendment: Amendment: Amendment: Amended amendment: Amendment: Amendment amendment: Amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment of the following amendment: Amendment of the following amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment: Amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of Article 8 amendment of 29 amendment of Article Article Article Article Article Article Article Article Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of 29 of 29 of Article 8 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of Article 8 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of the amendment of the amendment of 29 of 29 of the amendment of the amendment of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of 29 of Proposal for an amendment submitted by the CCP Article 2 Article 2 (...) Article 6 Article 8 Application for amendment submitted by the CCPCP Article 2 (...) Article 8 Application for the collection of moderate rates is hereby exempt from the collection of moderate rates in the following health care services: (a) (a) care, consultations, treatment and other health benefits submitted by the CCP Article 2 (...) Article 8 Disapps for the collection of moderate rates is exempt from the levy of moderate rates charged under the following health care services: (a) Care, care, consultations, treatment and other health benefits in primary health care, including the prescription of revenue; (b) Consultations, supplementary acts prescribed and other health benefits, if the source of reference for them is the National Health Health Service, including the requirements resulting from emergency service requirements; (g)(g)(i)(j); (c)); (c) (c); (c) (c)(i)); (d; (d)(j) (c)(j)(j)(j)(j)(j)(j); (c)(j); (c)( n) (n) (n) (n) (n) ( ( (a) (a) ( (a) ( ( (h previous point (a)( l)( l)( l)( l)( l)( l)( l)( l)( l)(;) (()( d));) ((;) ((;) ( ( ( ( ( ( (()( d));));));));) ( ( ( ((;)); ((; ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( (((((()(i)( d)); n));)); n));));)); n));));)); ( ( ( ( ( ( (((((((((((((((((()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()());));));));));));));));));)); ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( (((((((((((((((((()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()(]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u416	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u417	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u418	Mr President, it is to correct the way the PSD votes in the last vote. In fact, we should have voted separately on the proposed amendments to Article 2. that of the final text, since, in the proposal submitted by the Left Block, we voted against and in the proposal submitted by the CFP, we abstained. We therefore do not need to join the two proposals in a single vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u419	Mr Adam Silva, we shall then proceed to correct the votes on the basis of that indication, which does not alter the overall outcome. The PSD therefore votes against the proposed amendment of the Left Block and abstains from the proposed amendment of the CFP. The point of vote is corrected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are now returning to the main script to vote on the final text, presented by the Health Committee on Bill No 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed to the vote on the application submitted by the Block on the Left, for the plenary of the vote in the speciality of the text of the Bill No 1122 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Approves the Charter for Public Health Participation and the terms of its disclosure, implementation and evaluation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then vote, in the specialty, the Bill No. 1122 / XIII / 4. a [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Two requirements are followed, one submitted by the Left Block, within the framework of Parliamentary Assessment No 115 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ), and another presented by the CFP under Parliamentary Assessment No 123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), by the plenary of the vote on the speciality of proposals for amendment to Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career. If there is no opposition, we will vote together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] At the request of the parliamentary groups, two minutes will be granted for the debate of these amendments. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you allow me, on this topic about the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians ( TSDT ), I began by complimenting and greeting these professionals, who today are on a strike day, many of them present in the galleries, thanking the work they do for the National Health Service. What we bring to the debate is the improvement of the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, ensuring that it is fair and dignified. For a long time, negotiations were held between the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and the government to ensure this career, which is more than just, but the government decided unilaterally to publish a career that effectively does not meet the needs of the National Health Service or of the professionals. The Left Block presented, in the Assembly of the Republic, a parliamentary assessment of this decree, which covers the career of TSDTs, and presented several proposals for changes to ensure that no one has a regression in his career and that the time of service corresponding to the various years during which these professionals worked is accounted for in the transition to the new career and for the new salary table. Therefore, we presented our proposals for amendment and, at the time, also the Portuguese Communist Party and the PSD presented their own. However, in the field of specialty, the PSD withdrew its proposals and voted against all the proposals of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, giving a walkover and attracting professionals. What we are doing is asking for the vote on these proposals by the plenary to give the Democratic Social Party the opportunity, of certainly, to meet its initial proposal. Therefore, these proposals are approved for amendment to the decree-law and the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, ensuring the justice that is effectively due to these professionals. [[Congratulations from BE and the public present in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u421	I know that today is the last day of the Parliament with regard to plenary meetings, but not so can the galleries enjoy bono to applaud or intervene in any way in the work. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u422	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin our intervention with a very special greeting to the superior diagnostic technicians present here and to those who, while not present, really expect the Assembly of the Republic to correct an injustice. For 20 years these workers have been fighting for a career,... [[PCP applause.]] ... a worthy career, a career that recognizes the work that, throughout these years, have been developing in behalf of users, in favor of the National Health Service. They fought for 20 years, started negotiations for years, but the PS government unilaterally interrupted the negotiation process, presenting a career that, rather than valuing, deepens injustices. in this sense, the CFP Parliamentary Group has presented a parliamentary opinion and today requires the vote on the proposals it made in committee, proposals that aim to correct these injustices. They are proposals that do not change the career thoroughly, in fact, as we have been committed, but we are sure that, if they are approved today, the superior diagnostic technicians, the career and the work they perform every day, for the benefit of the users of the National Health Service, will be benefited. What we are proposing, in fact, is: that thawing be carried out in the current career and not in the previous one; that, in the transition to the new career, all categories be filled; that there be an application to all workers, regardless of their link; that the change in remuneration levels be applied from this year, unless, of course, in collective bargaining there is a more favourable solution; and that the elimination of access quotas to higher categories.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u423	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u424	I will finish, Mr. President. What the superior diagnostic technicians require, and on the side of the PCP here have, is this commitment to continue to fight for the dignity of their career. The PSD already has the opportunity to correct the hand it gave the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u425	Before we proceed, I would like to take advantage of the circumstances to congratulate Mr José Carlos Barros, who today, the last day of the Parliament in terms of plenary sessions, celebrates his birthday. [[General applause.]] Mr José António Silva of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of the year, the Government approved Decree-Law No. 25 / 2019, establishing the remuneration regime of the special career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician, in which it imposed inadequate legislative solutions that caused serious injustices with regard to these health professionals, in particular in terms of category and remuneration position. in this context, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party presented on 12 March 2019 Parliamentary Appreciation No 125 / XIII / 4. the, in order to correct the aspects that appeared to be detrimental to the rights of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. It follows, however, that Decree-Law No 84 / 2019 has created an obligation on the Government to ensure the preparation of a prior study where the review of careers and the remuneration of employees of the Public Administration is concerned. This means that the Government has acknowledged that the processes of review of Public Administration careers should not take place without the relevant preparation of a previous study, contrary to what has clearly occurred in the case of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. However, this political retreat from the Government, despite conditioning the assumptions that led to the presentation of Parliamentary Assessment No 125 / XIII / 4. the, determined that the PSD Parliamentary Group now required the Executive to carry out a previous study to assess the terms of the review of the special career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. Therefore, the PSD submitted a draft resolution recommending that the Government ensure the implementation of the previous study in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u427	It was to do a previous study on a career that had already been reviewed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u428	Unfortunately, even today, the united left have plummeted this constructive proposal of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u429	The decree-law is already in force!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u430	... thus clearly demonstrating their total contempt by the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u431	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u432	The government's lack of seriousness and the political opportunism of its extreme-left appearances are clear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u433	Before giving the floor to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP, in order to proceed with her speech, she asked for some attention. Ladies and gentlemen, since today's plenary work is already complicated enough with the number of votes we have and things become even more complicated with the background noise. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this process concerning senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, the CDS is where it has always been, recognizing the merit and relevance of the work that these nearly 8,000 health professionals provide in their day-to-day work, recognizing that this government has contributed, and much, to generate injustices in what concerns their professional progression and expecting, from the outset, that the Government and the Socialist Party should find solutions to injustices that the government itself had generated. We said, and today we repeated, that we would never obstruct solutions that were found and, in fact, once again in relation to the health area, we can only point out that management has not been understood and that, with this, it has harmed health professionals who are effectively relevant in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u435	You guys voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u436	We have always said that it would lead the government to find solutions and overcome the problems created by it. What we expect is that in 25. the time, the Socialist Party can demonstrate that it is not with basic law announcements but with effective postures that solves the concrete health problems of Portuguese and health professionals in this country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u437	The Bureau no longer has requests for intervention, so we will then vote on these various proposals in particular. As there is no objection, we shall vote together, in the speciality, on the proposals submitted by BE, amending Articles 2. o, 3. o, 4. o, 5. o, 6. the Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February and Annex I and Annex II ( elimination) of the Decree, and the proposed amendments submitted by the CFP to Articles 2. o is 3. the addition of articles 4. o -A, 5. o -A, 6. o -A is 6. o-B to Decree-Law. [[PCP protests and PSD counter-protests.]] Mrs. Members, either silence or interrupt the work until there are conditions to resume it. It's just, if you want, I'll interrupt! I don't have a problem with that. [[Pause.]] Let us vote on the proposals set out above. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[These were the following: Proposals for amendments submitted by BE Article 2 (...) 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — (...) 4 — (...) 5 — The mandatory modification of the remuneration position in the category shall be made in modules of years in the category, with a positive performance assessment, to be defined in accordance with the scope laid down in Article 19 of Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August. 6 — The length of service and the points obtained in the performance assessment process, carried out at a time prior to the transition process to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, were fully relevant in this career for the purpose of changing the pay position, irrespective of the pay position in which the worker is placed by the effect of the transition. (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b)) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b)) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b)) (b) (b) (b)) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b)) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (c) (b) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c) (c)) is) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) the) is) is) thec) thec) thec) thec) thec) thec) thec) Article 4 (...) 1 — In the transition to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as resulting from Article 20(3) of Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August, workers shall be repositioned in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Article 104 of Law No 12-A/ 2008, of 27 February 2008, maintained in force by Article 42(1)(c) of Law No 35/2014 of 20 June in its current wording. 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following numbers, the transition to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy shall be effective on 1 January 2018, so workers shall be repositioned at the level of remuneration the monetary amount of which is identical to the monetary amount corresponding to the base remuneration they were entitled to on 31 December 2017. 3 — The remuneration valuations provided for in Article 18 et seq. of Law No 114/2017 of 29 December, which approved the State Budget for 2018, already take place in the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, approved by Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August, fully referring to the period of service and the performance assessment of the career of diagnostic and therapeutic technician provided for in Decree-Law No 564/99 of 21 December, irrespective of the remuneration position in which the worker is placed for the purpose of the transition. 4 — (previous paragraph 2). Article 5 (...) 1 — Until the repositioning of all diagnostic and therapeutic technicians has been completed, as provided for in the preceding article, the public employer entity may only propose to candidates approved in competitive procedures for the recruitment of workers required for the occupation of jobs for any category in which the special career of superior technician in the diagnostic and therapeutic areas is developed, the lowest remuneration which, in the corresponding phase-up period, is applicable. 2 — In the circumstances provided for in the previous paragraph, the employed worker shall, where appropriate, be subject to the rules of application laid down in paragraph 4 of the preceding Article. 3 —... Article 6 (...) Articles 15 and 20 of Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August shall be replaced by the following: ‘Article 15 (...) Article 20 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — — — — — — In the transition to the special career of TSDT as provided for in the preceding paragraphs, workers shall be repositioned in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Article 104 of Law No 124/2008 of 27 February 2008, maintained in force by Article 42(1)(c) of Law No 35/2014 of 20 June 2014 as amended by Laws No 84/2015 of 7 August, 18/2016 of 20 June, 42/2016 of the Remuneration Positions of 28 December, and 25/2017 of 30 May, with the adjustments contained in the diploma determining the transitional rules for the special career of TSDT and the respective remuneration scheme.’; Annex I... Categories Proposals for amendments tabled by the CFP. Article 2 Remuneration positions 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — (...) 4 — (...) 5 — The mandatory modification of the remuneration position for the category shall be made in a module of years in the category, with a positive performance assessment, to be defined in accordance with the scope laid down in Article 19 of Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August. 6 — The assessment of the performance performed at the moment prior to the transition process to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy is relevant in this career for the purpose of changing the pay position. Article 3 Transition of workers integrated in the career provided for in Decree-Law No 564/99 of 21 December. 1 — (...) (a) transfer to the top technical category of the main diagnostic and therapeutic areas workers who are holders of the 1st class technical specialist category; (b) transfer to the top technical category of the specialized diagnostic and therapeutic areas workers who are holders of the main technical category of specialist and technical technician; (c) transfer to the top technical category of the diagnostic and therapeutic areas workers who are holders of the 1st class technical category of the 2nd class. 2 — (...) (a) For the purposes of recruitment for the top technical category of the areas of diagnosis and the main specialist therapy, the period of service provided by workers who are holders of the category of specialist and main technical technician; (b) For the higher technical category of the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy, the time of service provided in the categories of 2nd-class and 1st-class technician. Article 4a Remunerations and remuneration positions 1 — For the purposes of remunerative valuation provided for in Article 18 of Law No 114/2017 of 29 December, the points obtained under the performance assessment process in the pre-earner career, irrespective of the transition of the career of the Higher Techniques of Diagnostic and Therapeutic and possible change of pay positioning, shall be recorded. 2 — The progress, remuneration and other financial benefits of workers involved in the higher technical career in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, including changes in remuneration levels and the monetary amount of each level of remuneration shall apply from 1 January 2019, unless the most favourable scheme is determined by collective bargaining. Article 5a Supplementary provision This scheme applies with the necessary adaptations to all workers who, regardless of the contractual link, are integrated into the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. Article 6 - Amendment to Decree-Law No 110/2017 of 31 August 2017. Articles 6 and 7 of Decree-Law No 110/2017 of 31 August are replaced by the following: ‘Article 6 Career structure 1 — (...) (a) (...) (b) (...) (c) (...) 2 — The annual forecast of the number of jobs on the staff map of the corresponding service or establishment, relating to the category of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy, is determined according to the functional content of that category and the organizational structure of the respective service or health establishment. 3 — The annual forecast of the number of jobs on the staff map of the corresponding service or establishment, relating to the higher technical category of the main diagnostic and therapeutic areas, is determined according to the functional content of that category and the organic structure of the respective service or health establishment. Article 7 Admission conditions 1 —... 2 —... 3 —... 4 — The requirements for the recruitment referred to in previous paragraphs are, in accordance with the law, subject to collective bargaining.’ Article 6b Amendment to Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August Articles 7 and 8 of Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August are replaced by the following: ‘Article 7 Career Structure 1 — (...) (a) — (...) (b) — (...) (c) — 2 — The annual forecast of the number of jobs on the staff map of the corresponding service or establishment, concerning the top technical category of the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy, is determined by the functional content of that category and the organizational structure of the respective service or health establishment. 3 — The annual forecast of the number of jobs on the staff map of the corresponding service or establishment, relating to the higher technical category of the main diagnostic and therapeutic areas, is determined according to the functional content of that category and the organic structure of the respective service or health establishment. Article 8 Conditions of admission 1 — 2 — 3 — 4 — The requirements for the recruitment referred to in the previous paragraphs are, in accordance with the law, subject to collective bargaining.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u438	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u439	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u440	Mr President, in order to announce that on behalf of Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares, Mr Carla Barros and myself, we will present a declaration of vote on parliamentary opinions on Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February establishing the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u441	Be registered. Mrs. Angela War asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u442	For the same purpose, Mr President, to announce that on my behalf and Mrs Teresa Morais and Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u443	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us return to the main vote script. We shall generally vote for the Bill No 185 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Sets out the forms of implementation of the safety and health system at work provided for in the Labour Code and legislation complementary to the bodies and services of the Public Administration. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of the same Bill No 185 / XIII / 4. a. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on the proposal for a comprehensive final vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on the Proposal for a Law No 174 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Reforms and expands the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u444	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u445	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u446	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote that we have just done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u447	Written, I suppose?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u448	Written, Mr. President. I don't have any other chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u449	Be registered. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1181 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the assets benefit on deferred tax assets covered by the Special Regime approved by Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August 2014. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the Proposal for a Law No 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other Code of the Tax on the Income of Collective Persons in the Field of Impairments of Credit Institutions and Other Financial Institutions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality, within the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the Proposal for a Law No 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the regime of Investment and Real Estate Corporations ( SIGI ) [ Parliamentary Assessments No 120 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 122 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the Proposal for a Law No 197 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), which ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2402, which establishes a general regime for ownership and establishes a specific regime for simple, transparent and standardized ownership. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), which establishes mechanisms for settling disputes involving the competent authorities of Portugal and other Member States of the European Union as a result of the interpretation and application of international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1852. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were approved.]] We now proceed to the vote on an application by the PCP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 875 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Technical Unit for the Recovery of Heritage resulting from the credits that have read the national bank. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote, in the specialty, the Bill No. 875 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Technical Unit for the Recovery of Heritage resulting from the credits that have read the national bank. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and the non-registered Member were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Given the outcome of this vote, the overall final vote on the same initiative is detrimental. I am not going to start a doctrinal debate here on this subject. I do not agree because the vote in the specialty is not exhilarating by nature, but I take it for granted. Having regard to the agreement of the House, we continue with the general vote on the text of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft Law No 581 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — Ban the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastics, 747 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastic and provides for the transition to new materials and practices, 752 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Determines the non-use of disposable plastic dishes in certain catering sectors and 754 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — determines the obligation to provide consumers with an alternative to the distribution of disposable meal utensils in plastics in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments. The tenderers withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 94 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of fire safety in buildings. The initiative was withdrawn by the author in favour of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 94 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of fire safety in buildings. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u450	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u451	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u452	Mr President, to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u453	Written, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u454	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u455	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Apparently, Mr. Bureau Secretary wants to give the House some joy and asked me to announce that we are in the middle of the script. [[Laughing.]] I don't know if anyone wants to present a congratulation vote to delay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u456	Or protest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u457	Ah, protest! All right. So from now on, I'll slow down...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u458	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u459	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u460	Mr President, in order to celebrate this fact, I would like to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the final replacement text concerning initiatives on disposable meal utensils in plastic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u461	All right. We will therefore not rule out that declaration of vote. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote on the final text, in a comprehensive final vote, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the Draft Law No 1214 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the end to be attributed to the tips of cigarettes. Only at the tips, but not from cigarettes or cigars. It is therefore specifically limited to cigarettes. [[Laughing.]] Let us then vote for it. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u462	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u463	Madam Member, you will announce a statement of vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u464	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u465	... smoking in this case. Not written or oral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u466	Just writing, just writing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u467	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u468	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u469	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u470	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a written declaration of vote on the final text on Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u471	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u472	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u473	Mr. Smoker?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u474	Affirmative, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u475	I do not know whether there will clearly be a problem of incompatibility. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u476	I thought about it! And I would also like to make that clear, as Mr President has helped. I would also like to say that I will present a written statement of vote — to rest Mr President and the House — on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u477	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u478	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u479	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u480	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u481	Be registered. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 1467 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the resurgence of the profession of custodians by hiring and training at least 350 professionals and 1773 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — For the need to recover the profession of guardians, in the preservation and monitoring of water resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]] We turn to the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 2270 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 2271 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 2272 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 2273 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN), all relating to the cessation of validity of Decree-Law No 20 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the fields of animal protection and animal health and food safety[ Parliamentary assessments No 117 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 112 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 104 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were adopted and votes against the PS.]] The last vote means that Decree-Law No. 20 / 2019 will cease, of 30 January Following is the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No. 194 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Altera a Lei Antidopagem no Sport. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 146 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the scheme for access and exercise of sports coach activity. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on an application by BE for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 7. the draft Law No 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, we turn to page 7 of the Supplementary Screen I to vote on Article 7 in the specialty. the draft Law No 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE). No one wants to make an intervention on this matter, right? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]] Well, I thought so. Let us therefore vote on this Article 7. the draft Law No 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Bill No 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u482	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u483	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u484	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u485	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u486	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u487	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u488	Mr President, it is only to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u489	Be registered. We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April regulating the Cinema Law as regards measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities[ Parliamentary Assessments No 62 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 63 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 65 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) and 66 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Labour Procedure Code by adapting it to the Civil Procedure Code. I note that the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission is followed. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote, in the overall final vote, on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u490	Would you excuse me for the floor, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u491	Please, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u492	Mr President, on the following votes, I believe that we can jointly vote on the initiatives in the next seven pages of the script. [[General applause.]] I think we can vote together on Bill Nos 137 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ), 496 / XIII / 2. a ( BE), 508 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ), 550 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN), 552 / XIII / 2. a ( BE), 640 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) and 643 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u493	I would not say that you are a saint because this would violate the principle of separation between the Church and the State, but almost! Mr. João Oliveira, in order not to be mistaken, can we vote until what page?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u494	To page 73.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u495	We can vote together to page 73, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u496	Mr. President, no. But I'm not going to be very disappointed. We can vote until the end of page 71. The Bill No. 640 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) cannot be voted on here. Therefore, we can vote until Bill No. 552 / XIII / 2. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u497	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u498	Mr President, I would like to give my cooperation and that of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u499	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u500	Mr President, I remember that on page 68 there is a request.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u501	In my script, the requirement is cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u502	No, that requirement remains. The last point on page 68 is the vote on a request, which, above all, is from the CFP. If the PCP removed it, then we're comfortable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u503	Mr President, I propose that the diplomas generally be voted on one by one, and still save time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u504	It's better. Therefore, we will generally vote for Bill No 137 / XIII / 1. a ( CFP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers' rights. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] With the rejection, in general, of this bill, no votes will be made in the specialty or the global end. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 496 / XIII / 2. a (BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and to the social protection of work by shift and night. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Given the result of the vote, in general, of this bill, their respective votes will not be taken in the specialty and overall final. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 508 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] With the rejection of this bill, there is no room for votes in the speciality and overall finality. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 550 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Amends the Labour Code and the Labour Process Code by introducing amendments to the work contract presumption regime and to the contract after a certain resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] In view of the outcome of the vote we have just held, there will be no vote in the speciality and overall finality. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 552 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the duty of professional disconnection and reinforces the monitoring of working hours, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] With the rejection of this bill, no votes shall be made in the respective speciality and overall finality. We then generally vote for Bill No. 640 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, which enshrines the worker's right to professional disconnection. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the NAP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No 643 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Qualifies as a very serious counter-ordination the breach of the rest period( 15 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected and votes in favour of BE; the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] With the rejection of this bill, the votes in the speciality and the overall end are adversely affected. We shall immediately proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 136 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Labour Code and its regulations and the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive Social Security System and the Drafts of Law No 137 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights, 550 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Amends the Labour Code and the Labour Process Code by introducing amendments to the labour contract presumption regime and to a certain resolution contract, 729 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Alter the legal regime applicable to term contracts, implementing the commitments contained in the Government Programme and the recommendations of the « working group for the preparation of a national plan to combat precariousness », proceeding to 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 732 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability to 13. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 797 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed( 13 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code), 901 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — The rules allowing the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed, 904 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 905 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), and 912 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Amends the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers( 14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote together on two requests, one by the CFP, for the plenary to vote on the proposals for amendments to Articles 112. o, 476. o, 500. o, 501. o -A and 502. the Law No 7 / 2009, of 12 February, in its current wording, contained in the replacement text relating to the Proposal for Law No 136 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) and Law Projects Nos 137 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ), 550 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN), 729 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 732 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 797 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 901 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens), 904 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 905 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) and 912 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) and the other, submitted by BE, to the plenary of the vote, in the speciality, of the proposals for amendments to Articles 2. o, 6. a and 10. that of the replacement text. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] It follows the stage of interventions to discuss, in particular, the rules that have been the subject of the requirements now voted on. Two minutes will be allocated to each parliamentary group. Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u505	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the extension of the experimental period to 180 days cannot be the currency of exchange of the limitation of the term contract for young people and long-term unemployed. It does not fight precariousness with unconstitutionality, but this is the proposal of the PS, since it wants to fight precariousness with a norm that knows it is unconstitutional, since already in 2009 the Constitutional Court considered unconstitutional the extension of the experimental period unconstitutional. It is not possible to speak in a bet on collective bargaining while maintaining the possibility of unilaterally liquidating rights freely negotiated with trade unions. We therefore propose the end of the expiry of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Code should be the minimum limit and from there collective bargaining should confer stronger rights. However, what we have today in our country is the Labour Code as a maximum limit and from there it is worth all that the employers can impose on the workers. But this is the 19th century, it's not the 21st century...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u506	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u507	... and therefore we propose the elimination of this principle and the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. We propose 35 hours of work and 25 days of vacation for public and private workers. In our country, more than 700 000 workers work in shifts. We propose the obligation to pay the shift allowance; the anticipation of the retirement age for shift workers due to physical and psychological wear inherent to this type of work; the limitation of the shift scheme to strictly necessary situations and the replacement of the nighttime between 20 hours and 7 hours. In particular, all of these proposals from the CFP were rejected by the right-wing policy. In the specialty, all these proposals were rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. We now have the opportunity to restore workers' rights! The PS said today, with regard to another initiative, that these are proposals for happiness and birth! Well, ladies. Members of the PS have here proposals from the CFP that are of happiness and encouragement to birth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u508	Follow the PCP and they'll be on the right side of history! Workers' rights are not obstacles to the development of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u509	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u510	Workers' rights are mandatory conditions for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u511	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u512	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the activists and union leaders who are in the galleries attending the debate and say that what happened in recent weeks in the working group on labour legislation was significant and serious. There is nothing left of the left-wing proposals at the end of this process. The courts of the troika and the right in relation to holidays, dismissal or overtime remain in the law of work. The inequality between the public and the private remains in the law in working hours, in the meal allowance or in the follow-up to children. Expiration and degradation of collective bargaining remains in the law. Precautionary balances offered to employers are in the law: oral contracts for all sectors of activity; hour banks outside collective bargaining; and the experimental period with twice the duration, a norm that offends the Constitution of the Republic. Moreover: measures of the Left Block approved by the Socialist Party in general were plunged by the alliance between the PS, the PSD and the CDS, as well as the extent to which we presented about the dismissal. There are 750 000 shift workers who are without any right because of the alliance between the PS, the PSD and the CDS and who have been olympically disregarded in this process. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer have expectations of a rebate of consciousness that nullifies this regressive alliance in favour of the strongest and the patronage. However, Mr President. Members have a final opportunity here to stand in favour of labour rights and not in favour of precariousness. You have one last chance here, gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, to honour in the field of work the spirit of the agreements made in 2015. You have here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a last chance not to adopt measures that are hostile to workers and which, in our view, violate the Constitution and shame this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u513	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with Mr José Soeiro's first statement that «there is nothing left of the proposals on the left». That's not true! The PS is on the left! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he's left, yeah! You left a deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u515	Let's see how they vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u516	In fact, we have a different view, which does not have to do with the «right side of history», even because the right side of history... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] When I was little, they taught me that the bad guys were cowboys and Indians and, after all, it wasn't like that. Therefore, this statement « on the right side of history » has much to say to you, Mrs Deputies. It's not exactly what you're saying. What is curious is that they divide society into good, on one side, and evil, on the other... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u517	Madam Member, excuse me. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make what's already complicated more complicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u518	What is curious, Mr President, is that they divide society into good and bad, as they wanted to believe, but it is unfortunate that the PCP and the Block have voted against all the proposals of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u519	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u520	... that he intended, with regard to the social agreement, to smooth it in some aspects which seemed more problematic to us. PS applause. I'm going to give you some examples so you don't have any doubts. For example, in relation to the experimental period, we had a definition of workers seeking the first job. What happened? Chumbaram! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] We had a proposal that the use of the contract complaint could be no more than three consecutive times. What did you do to the left? Leadou!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u521	The left one, say right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u522	What did you do to the other left, to the other... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It's because there are so many! I know that you sometimes find it hard to know what democracy is, but there is not only your left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In democracy, we are all important! There are no groups in this House that are more important than others. You have a concept of society which I think can be hurt and which you have proved here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u523	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for us to continue our work. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, has the floor. [[Continued protests of BE and PCP.]] Someone won't listen to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u524	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even before entering the concrete question in question, I would like to leave a note because, in fact, it is worth recalling, what Mrs Wanda Guimarães has just said about her coalition partners, who accuses them of having a painful view of society, who have helped them to be in government for these four years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to lawyers now, I wanted to leave some notes. Firstly, the PSD has always said, and reiterates, that the existing labour legislation has shown positive signs, from the outset with regard to employment growth and the reduction of unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u525	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u526	Therefore, the PSD has always said that this would not be the time to make changes to the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u527	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u528	But he also said that since there is a social agreement, the PSD respects it, because it respects social dialogue and because he understands that employers and workers, together, are able to find the best solutions that will apply to them. As we favour dialogue, we have always said that we would not prevent this social agreement. in this legislative process, there are three fundamental notes to be said. First, the proposals here by the Left Block and the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u529	They are just and necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u530	... do not appear at any time in the social agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u531	It's true! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u532	Thus, the PSD maintains the consistency of always and will not follow these proposals, as it did not accompany them in the field of specialty. Another point that should be emphasized, and it is good for the country and the Portuguese to know, is that the proposed law which was submitted by the Government in the Assembly of the Republic did not respect the social agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u533	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u534	They were proposed, in particular, by the PSD that made this respect happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u535	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u536	In short, Mr President, I wanted to say the following: the government has deceived the coalition partners, because it promised them that it would change everything, and only did it not deceive the social partners, because we do not allow it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u537	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u538	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the CDS has always been very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u539	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u540	We believe that this review of labour legislation was not necessary. It was you who have always said that the law in force would increase unemployment, but indeed it had the exact opposite effect, as we have always said. This was not the law of lay-offs, this was the law that allowed the recovery of employment in the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, the CDS does not consider it necessary to amend labour law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u541	But right now...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u542	... but since there was a social agreement, the CDS respects social consultation. The CDS respects this forum, especially when the social partners and the government meet and intend to make changes. As we respect this social agreement, we were particularly demanding with the government because we heard the social partners and we found that the bill did not fully comply with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u543	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u544	We therefore proposed the necessary corrections, and I am glad that they were approved. We were demanding with the Socialist Party, because it is not possible to say that we respect a social agreement when, after that, we resolve to go beyond or to fall short of that same agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u545	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u546	Of course, we are demanding with the parties that are on the left, which are parties that are against social consultation, who are against social dialogue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u547	Harmful!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u548	...that they think there should be no agreement. That is why we do not accept that in the Assembly of the Republic, if we seek to distort that same agreement. For this reason, the CDS will be in a position to enable the agreed reform, but do not have the CDS to bring in the standard window that was not the subject of negotiation,... [[PCP protests.]] ... because there are trade union centres, in particular the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), which always refuse to negotiate and sign any agreement with social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u549	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u550	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u551	They don't count on us for that! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u552	Finally, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u553	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we were informed by Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party, who ended up doing doctrine, that the right side of history is to be left-handed and join right-hand in labour matters. It's just that if it were in any other matter... But it's not weird anymore! [[Exactly!]] [[Protests by PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u554	Madam Member, it is not surprising, therefore, that the applause for your speech has come from the PSD and CDS bench. [[Don't! Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u555	That's why we say today is a bad day for those who work. And it is a bad day for several reasons that, I believe, can be synthesized in two great reasons. First, the Socialist Party lost the opportunity to strengthen rights, lost the opportunity to remove from the legal-laboral order negative aspects inherited from the previous government. I am talking about the need to revoke the expiry of collective bargaining, to change the amounts of compensation in the event of dismissal and to restore the principle of more favourable treatment for workers. Secondly, the Socialist Party not only lost this opportunity, as it joined the right to further weaken — not to say liquidate — collective bargaining, to hinder the reconciliation of personal life with the professional life of people, through the hour bank, finally promoting precariousness, curiously one of the flags of this legislature. Neither Mrs Wanda Guimarães nor Mr Prime Minister nor the Socialist Party have been able to explain to us how to combat precariousness by duplicating the experimental period. No one understands!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u556	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u557	Two and two are only five when the account is wrong. That is why the Socialist Party has not been able to explain how to combat precariousness with the increase in the experimental period. We must therefore regret the fact that the Socialist Party has proved insensitive to the appeals on the left — especially from the Greens — to remove the negative aspects of labour law and to turn right to make these changes when we know what is expected of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u558	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u559	I will finish, Mr. President. We will now hope that Mr President has not promulgated the diploma or, at least, asks for the preventive supervision of his constitutionality. If this is not the case, the Greens have already expressed their readiness to, together with other parties, proceed to the request for successive supervision of the constitutionality of this diploma. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u560	The Bureau has indicated that the CFP and the Left Block, the proponents of these amendments, are in a position to vote together, in the specialty, all the proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u561	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u562	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u563	Mr President, we want to vote separately on the two final items on page 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u564	Mr, on page 8 of Supplement I, there is only Article 2. that of the replacement text, in particular the proposal submitted by the CFP, to delete Article 112. o. Mr André Silva, do you mind identifying the specific article you want to vote separately?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u565	Yes, Mr. President. It concerns the proposals submitted by the CFP to amend Articles 502. o and 501. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u566	Articles 502. o and 501. o -A. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can everything be voted on together? [[Pause.]] Mr André Silva of the NAP called for a separate vote on the proposed amendments tabled by the CFP under Articles 501. o -A and 502. o. Are we in a position to vote together? And when I say 'all the rest' — they will correct - if I am wrong - I mean the vote on the following proposals: tabled by the CFP, for the elimination of Article 112. the Law No 7 / 2009, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text, submitted by the Left Block, which eliminates Article 112 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 7 / 2009, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text, submitted by the Left Block, of the elimination of Article 142. the Law No 7 / 2009, as set out in Article 2. the replacement text, submitted by the Left Block, amending Articles 229. o, 230. o, 238. is 366. the Act No 7 / 2009 ; submitted by the CFP, amending Article 476. the Act No 7 / 2009 ; submitted by the CFP, amending Article 500. the Law No 7 / 2009, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text, submitted by the Left Block, amending Article 6. the replacement text ( addition to Article 262 ). the -A to Law No 7 / 2009 ; submitted by the Left Block, amending Article 10 ( a ). the replacement text ( elimination of Article 208 ). o-B of Law No 7 / 2009 ). Is this it? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote together...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u567	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u568	For the sake of the Holy One! Open... Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u569	Mr President, I need to vote on Rule 112. the first, but we can vote together on the proposals of the PCP and the Left Block. Next, we can vote on Article 142. the, i.e. the proposal to amend the Left Block, and the rest may be together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u570	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, or to vote separately on the proposed amendment to Article 112 of the CFP. o?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u571	Mr President, it may be in conjunction with the proposal from the Left Block, because they are in the same direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u572	All right. To begin with, let us then vote together in the speciality, the proposal submitted by the CFP, which eliminates Article 112. the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and the proposal submitted by BE to eliminate Article 112 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the remaining proposals in the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u573	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u574	You have the floor, Mr. Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u575	Mr President, I just need to vote on the next proposal from the Left Block alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u576	It refers to the proposal for the elimination of Article 142. the, presented by the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u577	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u578	All right. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to delete Article 142. the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] To ensure that there is no doubt, we shall now vote together in the speciality of the proposals submitted by BE for amendment to Articles 229. o, 230. o, 238. is 366. the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February amending Article 6. o ( addition to Article 262. -A to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February and Article 10 ( a ). the replacement text ( elimination of Article 208 ). oB of Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and also with regard to Article 2. that of the replacement text, the proposals submitted by the CFP, amending Articles 476. o and 500. Law No 7 / 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] [[They were as follows: Proposals for amendments submitted by BE Article 2 (...) (Article 229 (...)) 1 — The worker who performs additional work on a working day, on a supplementary or on a working day, shall be entitled to paid compensatory rest, corresponding to 25% of the additional hours worked, without prejudice to paragraph 3. 2 — The compensatory rest referred to in the previous paragraph shall be paid in respect of a number of hours equal to the normal daily working period and shall be enjoyed in the following 90 days. 3 —.... 4 —.... 5 —.... 6 — Paragraphs 1 and 2 may be removed by a collective working regulation instrument establishing additional work compensation by reducing work time, payment of money or both. Article 230 (...) 1 — (...) 2 — The additional work compensatory rest provided on a working day or on a holiday, with the exception of paragraph 3 of the preceding article, may be replaced by an increase of not less than 100% by an agreement between the employer and the worker. 3 — The compensatory rest referred to in paragraph 1 of the preceding Article, in micro-enterprise or small undertaking, on an appreciable basis related to the organisation of work, may be replaced by an increase of not less than 100%. 4 —.... 5 —.... Article 238 (...) 1 — The annual holiday period shall be at least 25 working days. 2 —.... 3 —.... 4 —.... 5 —.... 6 —.... Article 366 (...) 1 — In the event of collective dismissal, the worker shall be entitled to compensation for one month of basic remuneration and allowances for each full year of old age. 2 — In the case of a fraction of the year, the compensation is calculated proportionally. 3 — Compensation may not be less than three months of basic remuneration and diucturities. 4 — There is serious counter-ordination of infringements of the provisions of paragraphs 1 or 2 of Article 6 (...) ‘Article 262a Food allowance 1 — The worker is entitled to daily subsistence allowance of value not less than that determined for public service workers. 2 — Except as part of a more favourable collective regulation instrument, the allocation of the food allowance presupposes the effective provision of work and the daily fulfilment of at least 5 hours of work. 3 — Part-time workers are due to the payment of food allowance of value proportional to the hours worked. (a) Articles 5 and 10 of Law No 7/2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code. (b) Article 63(3)(d), Article 120(2)(d), Article 143(2), Article 208a, Article 208b, Article 268b, Article 120(2) and Article 340(2)(f), Articles 373, 374, 375, 376, 377, 378, 378, 379, 380 and 385, Article 486(2)(c), Article 491(3) and (4), Article 492(2)(h), Article 492(2), Article 497, Articles 508 to 513 of the Labour Code, as amended by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February 2009, as amended. (c)[Registration of point (b) of the PPL.] Proposals for amendments submitted by the CFP Article 2 (...) (Article 476) The most favourable treatment principle The higher law sources prevail over the lower sources except in the part where they, without opposition to them, establish a more favourable treatment for the worker. Article 500 Complaint of the collective convention (Delete.) ...’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u579	Let us go back and, at the request of the NAP, we shall, in particular, vote on the proposals submitted by the CFP, amending Articles 502. the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as set out in Article 2. the replacement text and 501. the -A of the same Law, as set out in Article 6. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PAN and the PS Helena Roseta Member.]] [[They were of the following content: Article 2 (...) ‘Article 502 (...) 1 — The collective convention may cease only by way of revocation by agreement of the parties. 2 — (Repeat.) 3 — (Repeat.) 4 — The rules concerning the deposit and publication of a collective convention apply to the revocation. 5 — The revocation prejudices the rights arising from the Convention, however, by continuing its regime to apply to individual employment contracts previously concluded and their renewals. 6 — (Repealed.Article 6 Addendum to the Labour Code, as annexed to Law No 7/2009 of 12 February (...) ‘Article 501A Arbitration for the suspension of the period of survival and mediation (Delete) ....’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u580	As we have finished the supplementary script I, we return to the main script. Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes in the speciality at the Commission on the replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 136 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Labour Code, and its regulations, and the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive Social Security System and the Drafts of Law No 137 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights, 550 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Amends the Labour Code and the Labour Process Code by introducing amendments to the labour contract presumption regime and to a certain resolution contract, 729 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Alter the legal regime applicable to term contracts, implementing the commitments contained in the Government Programme and the recommendations of the « working group for the preparation of a national plan to combat precariousness », proceeding to 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 732 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability to 13. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 797 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed( 13 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code), 901 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Repeal of the rules allowing the conclusion of the contract for the right term only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed, 904 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 905 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code) and 912 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Amends the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers( 14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Who votes against? [[At this moment, a part of the public in the galleries rose and stood.]] The public cannot, in any way, manifest itself and stand up during a vote. This is a manifestation! Either you sit down or I'll clear the galleries! Sit or get out! The elements of the public that remained standing began to leave the Chamber and shout « victory » and « the struggle continues ». The gentlemen. Officers of the authority will quickly have the galleries evacuated! As the galleries left, those elements of the public continued to cry out « the struggle continues ». The struggle certainly does not continue with disrespect for democratic institutions, as is the case with the Assembly of the Republic! [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, please evacuate the galleries quickly! As I have not yet announced the result of the vote, I shall now: the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, was adopted in a comprehensive final vote with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u581	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u582	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u583	Mr President, I would like to point out that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will make an oral vote at the end of the vote on this last vote. Mr Soeiro will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u584	Be registered. Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u585	Mr President, in the same way, I announce that Mrs Rita Rato will make an oral vote on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u586	Be registered. Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, I assume you are asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u587	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u588	Be registered. Mr Adam Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u589	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. an oral vote will be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u590	Be registered. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u591	Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u592	Be registered. Mrs. Margarida Balsairo Lopes, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u593	Mr President, I shall deliver a declaration of vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u594	Be registered. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u595	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u596	Be registered. Mrs. Helena Roseta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u597	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The declaration of vote shall be made on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u598	Be registered. Are there any further announcements of vote statements? [[Pause.]] That is not the case, I ask Mr José Manuel Pureza, who will now take the presidency and give me 30 seconds. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't hurt me by taking 30 seconds out of your time. I just wanted to tell you this: in October, when this Parliament is finished, I will finish my duties as a Member, ultimately. by doing so, and because it is the last session of the Plenary to which I have the privilege of presiding, I would like to thank you, of course, the honour that was given to me when I was elected to be Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. I would also like to wish that, during the course of my duties as President or Member of Parliament, it has always been up to what my colleagues thought was necessary. Finally, I would like to wish everyone, without exception, in political life and outside it, the best future happiness. Thank you very much! [[General applause, having PSD, PS and CDS-PP applauded standing.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u599	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Since no one opposes us, we shall vote together, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 569 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications indispensable for the performance of their functions by amending the fourth General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 651 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Liabilizes the public employer for the costs arising from the vocational training and certification of the worker. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Since the bill has been rejected, the votes in the speciality and the overall end are adversely affected. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on drafts of Law No 648 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — The second amendment is made to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities, amending the scheme for the allocation of professional ballot papers, and 652 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Extends the transitional period for the assignment of a certificate for the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities to whom it has completed its training after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 1949 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centres operator, strengthening of right to rest, rest, hygiene, health and safety at work, 1985 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Establishment and regulation of the profession of call center operator and 2001 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on working conditions in contact centres ( callcenters ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on draft resolutions Nos 2138 / XIII / 4, follows. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government rectify the working time count of local and coastal fishing workers for the purpose of pensions and reforms and the proper replacement of their rights, 2178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, for the purpose of accounting for social security, equip each day of unloading of local fishing vessels and coastal vessels with 3 working days, 2179 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government review the process of returning the retroactive pension taken by the masters/owners of the Association of Masters Owners of Craft Fisheries of the North Zone and 2192 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Harmonization and enforcement of rights in access to reform for fisheries professionals. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 1271 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the Metropolitan of Lisbon and an expansion plan that truly serves populations, 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By an expansion of the Lisbon Metropolitan Network articulated with the mobility needs of the Metropolitan Area, 2124 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — For the suspension of the project of expansion of the metropolitan line ( Carrossel ) in Lisbon and 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the priority expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 147 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Public Prosecutor. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of BE, the NAP, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of the Member of the CDS-PP Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u600	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u601	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u602	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u603	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u604	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u605	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u606	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u607	It is duly registered, Mr. We then move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 167 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u608	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u609	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u610	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will deliver a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u611	It is duly registered, Mrs. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 168 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other procedural arrangements within the administrative and tax jurisdiction. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 192 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — implements Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, implementing enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of BE and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We are now entering the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime of the European arrest warrant. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We are voting in general on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the arrangements applicable to the inventory process and drafts of Law No 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code, establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the pawnage and the execution of mortgages and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Change the legal regime of the inventory process by strengthening the general control powers of the judge. I note that the Government and the CFP have withdrawn their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the text of the replacement text by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We also vote, in a global final vote, on that replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) and Law Projects Nos 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1232 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Determines the amendment of the Legal Regime of Judicial Costs in order to ensure greater access to the courts by workers, precarious workers and the generality of citizens (14 ). the amendment to the Rules of Procedure ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The overall and special votes on this initiative are thus detrimental. Thus, we proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1233 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access to law and courts. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Since it has been rejected, the general and final votes relating to this bill are also affected. The general vote of Bill No 399 / XIII / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]] In this way, voting on the draft law in the speciality and overall finality will be adversely affected. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 408 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Ensure access to law and courts by making the benefit of exemption from judicial costs more comprehensive. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Having been rejected, the general and final votes relating to the draft law are adversely affected. We now vote in general on Bill No 409 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensure access to law and courts by introducing amendments to the Rules of Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] In this case too, we shall not vote in the overall speciality and finality on this bill. The general vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bills 436 / XIII / 2, follows. a ( BE) — Alter the Civil Code, eliminating discrimination between men and women in matters of international time, 472 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, reviewing the time limits applicable to the celebration of marriages, and 474 / XIII / 2. a ( NAP) — Ensures the individual freedom of each person to enter into marriage by eliminating the international period provided for in Article 1605. the Civil Code. I inform you that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PAN have withdrawn their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. Can we make the three votes together? [[Pause.]] Since no one opposes us, we shall, in general, vote on the text of replacement, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CDS-PP.]] With regard to the replacement text we have just voted on, we shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out, in particular in the Commission... [[Pause.]] They tell me that we have already made the three votes. You're right. It was distraction from me, so I'm sorry. We move on to the general vote of Bill No. 783 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u612	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u613	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u614	Mr President, I believe that there is a possibility of voting together on the Lein Projects 783, 784, 785, 786, 787 and 788 / XIII / 3. a, all CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u615	I ask whether there is consensus in this regard and, if so, whether we can vote on all these bills in general, in specialty and in global final vote. [[Pause.]] Since there is no consensus for us to proceed to the three joint votes, we shall vote jointly, in general, on Bills Nos 783 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June, 784 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace - Competition, Organization and Operation ), 785 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), 786 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters, 787 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, and 788 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals — Establishment of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u616	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u617	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u618	Mr President, with regard to Draft Law No 783 / XIII / 3. we can vote together, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote; then we would move on to the next bill and vote-CL - we would also - jointly, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote; and so on. from my point of view, we cannot vote together all the bills that have mentioned in general, in specialty and in global final vote, i.e. there can be no groupings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u619	Mr President, what we are talking about is whether we can vote, in general — and only in general — on the initiatives I have just announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u620	No, Mr. President. My proposal is that voting generally, in the general specialty and global end of Bill No. 784 / XIII / 3 should be done. a. If this is not possible, then I propose that the projects be voted on one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u621	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u622	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u623	Mr President, what we are talking about is the general vote, which can, by voting in a package, preclude the need for the vote in the specialty and the overall end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u624	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u625	I also raise the question of whether all parliamentary groups agree, and I therefore think that another agreement with other individual Members is indispensable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u626	So that's how we do it. We shall therefore proceed to the joint vote, in general, of Bills Nos 783 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June, 784 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace - Competition, Organization and Operation ), 785 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), 786 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters, 787 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure and 788 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals - Establishment of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u627	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, did not express his sense of vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u628	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u629	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u630	Mr. President, I will be very brief. There is perhaps a misunderstanding in the interpretation made by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. It is that in the House there are parliamentary groups, there is a single representative of a party and there is a non-registered Member. Therefore there are no « individual Members». I am opposed to voting jointly, in general, on the diplomas that have just been voted on and I will declare my vote on all of them so that the vote does not have to be repeated. In general, in relation to the Bill No. 784 / XIII / 3. the, I voted against; in relation to Bill No. 785 / XIII / 3. the, absive-me; and in relation to the Bills Nos 786 and 787 / XIII / 3. I voted against it. This is a right which assists me, not as an individualised Member, but as an unregistered Member. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u631	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, the Bureau fully respects your point of view. There is no attempt on our part to ostracize and, therefore, this is a dialogue which, eventually, Mr Delgado Alves has to do with Mr Alves. Of course, the Bureau can only respect its point of view and we note its sense of vote, which does not alter the general meaning of the vote on these matters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution. The text of this diploma was replaced by the author. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Votings in the speciality and overall finality of their diploma were therefore adversely affected. We proceed to the general vote, in general, on the overall speciality and finality of the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos.1047/XIII/4.a ( PAN) — Amend the Criminal Code, in particular the crime of rape, adapting the legislation to the Istanbul Convention ratified by Portugal, 1058 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amends crimes of rape and sexual coercion in the Criminal Code in respect of the Istanbul Convention ( 47. the amendment to the Penal Code), 1089 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact where there is strong evidence of the practice of criminal prosecution ( makes the thirty-ninth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure), 1105 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — It enables the application of the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution ( the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ), 1111/ XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of persecution, allowing the application of the preventive measure to prohibit contact with the victim, 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution, 1155 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recasts crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code under the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measure to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and prosecution ( stalking ) and 1178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crime of the crime of persecution, verified certain aggravating circumstances, as well as the possibility of applying preventive measures ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Penal Code and the thirty-first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ). The graduating parties withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. At the request of the parliamentary groups and Members, a joint vote will be held in general in the field of speciality by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission — and the overall end. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 1113 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Determines greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence crimes. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and votes in favour of the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Voting in this degree and its overall finality will therefore be detrimental. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1147 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, subject to the trial procedure the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence in cases of domestic violence and raising the criminal frame of this crime. The title and text of this diploma were replaced by its author. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected by votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on this bill is thus detrimental to the overall specialty and finality of this bill. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1148 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, prohibiting the provisional suspension of proceedings for domestic violence. The title and text of this diploma were replaced by its author. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] It is therefore detrimental to vote in the overall specialty and finality of this diploma. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 1151 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims. The text of this diploma was replaced by its author. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected by votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It is therefore detrimental to vote in the overall specialty and finality of this diploma. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1152 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen legal mechanisms for the protection of victims of violence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions against BE and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It is therefore detrimental to vote in the overall specialty and finality of this diploma. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1166 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It is therefore detrimental to vote in the overall specialty and finality of this diploma. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1183 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects children who witness crimes of domestic violence and makes it compulsory to collect statements for future memory during the investigation ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of their victims ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the BE and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Elza Pais.]] It is therefore detrimental to vote in the overall specialty and finality of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u632	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u633	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u634	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the vote on this bill, I will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u635	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u636	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u637	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u638	Mr President, it is also to inform that Mrs Carla Tavares and I will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u639	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u640	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u641	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u642	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u643	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u644	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u645	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u646	Mr President, the CFP Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u647	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u648	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u649	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u650	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u651	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will continue with the general vote on the text of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos. 1150 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008, of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), ensuring compulsory training for judges in domestic violence, and 1165 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the area of gender equality and domestic violence ( third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 1196 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Establishs cross-border limitations on appointments to the support offices for political office holders, public administration leaders and public managers. The title and text of this diploma were replaced by its author. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We will now vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, concerning draft resolutions Nos 2174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic and 1239 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic. The PSD and PS withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u652	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u653	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u654	Mr President, my speech has to do with the forthcoming votes. I suggest that the projects of lein.os 1198 / XIII / 4. a, 1200 / XIII / 4. a e 1201 / XIII / 4. to be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u655	Does anyone oppose the joint vote on these three diplomas? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u656	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u657	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u658	Mr President, I request that they be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u659	That is how we will do it, Mr President. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 1198 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January 2004 and the second amendment to the Statutes of the Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Committee, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 2011. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on the speciality and the overall final vote on this diploma will therefore be adversely affected. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1200 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007 to the second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August 2008 to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February 2008 and to the second amendment to the Statute of the Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Commission, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 2011. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on the speciality and the overall final vote on this diploma will also be adversely affected. The general vote of Bill No. 1201 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( Nsc. ) — The second amendment is made to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration, published in Annex A to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 2011. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on the speciality and the overall final vote on the diploma which has just been voted on will also be adversely affected. We shall now vote, in general, on the text of the replacement, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, concerning Bills Nos. 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the organisation and operation law of the entity for transparency and proceeds to 9. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ) and 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates an entity for transparency in the exercise of public office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u660	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u661	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u662	Mr President, I would suggest that we vote together in general and in specialty, since only the overall final vote does not have an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u663	It's true. [[Pause.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u664	Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, relating to Bills Nos. 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the organisation and operation law of the entity for transparency and proceeds to 9. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ) and 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates an entity for transparency in the exercise of public office. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and against the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indicative votes in the speciality at the Commission, with regard to the replacement text we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I inform you that this replacement text requires, in the overall final vote, an absolute majority of Members in effective office in accordance with Article 166 ( 2 ). Article 164 ( c ). Article 168 ( 5 ) and ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. I therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic voting system. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u665	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u666	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u667	Mr. President, I'm not being able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u668	The Bureau has the indication that there are more Mrs. Members who are unable to register. I ask the services to resolve these situations in good time. [[Pause.]] Today morning, the room clock indicated 7 hours and 10 minutes. It was an even worse problem than this one and it was solved. If the other one has been resolved, it will be, too, of course. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote on this replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 172 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira) and 33 votes against (CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes).]] Mrs. Members are in favour of the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series Nos 81 to 91, concerning plenary meetings held on 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 29, 30 and 31 May 2019. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We now have for the vote six opinions of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to report on these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u669	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz 4, Case No 9862 / 18.4T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Emilia Cerqueira ( PSD ) to intervene in the course of the proceedings under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u670	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u671	Also the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Judge of Criminal Instruction — Judge 1, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges ( PSD ) to intervene in the context of the referenced case.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u672	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u673	Similarly, the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Judge of Criminal Instruction — Judge 5, Case No. 2374 / 18.8T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, gave an opinion to authorize Mr. Feliciano Barreiras Duarte ( PSD ) to intervene in the context of the proceedings under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u674	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u675	Also the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Judge of Criminal Instruction — Judge 4, Case No 9862 / 18.4T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, gave an opinion to authorize Mr José Silvano ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u676	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u677	The request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Attorney-General of the Republic, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, issued an opinion to authorize Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the reference procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u678	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u679	Finally, the request of the Court of Justice of the County of Faro, Central Criminal Court of Portimão — Judge 4, Case No 127 / 16.7GCPTM, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, issued an opinion to authorize Mr Cristovão Norte ( PSD ) to intervene in the course of the proceedings under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u680	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we move on to additional script II and oral explanations of vote, I would also ask Mr António Carlos Monteiro to report on a diploma he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u681	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, the Draft Resolution No 2273 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Repeal of Decree-Law No 20 / 2019, of 30 January, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the fields of animal protection and animal health and food safety.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u682	We now move on to additional script II and to the vote on the amendments tabled in the context of the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 311/ XIII — Approves the transparency rules applicable to private entities which make legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic. We shall begin by voting in the specialty on the proposal submitted by the PS and the CDS-PP, amending Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP and Les Verdes were rejected, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD Member Margarida Balsairo Lopes and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 Scope For the purposes of this Act, the Presidency of the Republic, including the Civil and Military House and the Office of the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, the Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions, the Government, including their Cabinets, the Government's own organs of the Autonomous Regions, including their respective offices, the organs and services of the direct and indirect administration of the State, the independent administrative entities, the regulatory entities, as well as the bodies and services of the autonomous administration, the regional administration and the autonomous administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u683	We turn to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS and the CDS-PP as amended by Article 5. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP and Les Verdes were rejected, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD Member Margarida Balsairo Lopes and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5 Purpose of registration 1 — Without prejudice to the specific rules of each public entity, the transparency registry shall contain the following information on each entity to be registered: (a) [...] (b) Numbering of customers and the interests represented; (c) [...] (d) [...] (e) Identification of annual income arising from the interest-representation activity. 2 —... 3 —... 4 — Registered entities shall keep their data contained in the updated registry, requesting the introduction of information concerning any change to the elements referred to in paragraph 1, in particular the one set out in point (e). 5 —...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u684	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u685	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u686	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u687	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Since no one requires confirmation, this legislative process is closed in this legislature with the non-confirmation of the Decree. We now turn to the oral explanations of vote already announced on a number of diplomas that have been voted on. I request the services which make available their time in the electronic framework. First of all, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor to make a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 2248 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 2262 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on Bills Nos 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 1218 / XIII / 4. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u688	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, about the integral culture of the individual, the central problem of our time, Bento de Jesus Caraça said that "the acquisition of culture means a constant elevation, served by a flowering of what is best in man and by an ever-growing development of all his potential qualities", at the physical, intellectual, moral and artistic level. He said that "in a word it means the conquest of freedom" and that, in order to reach this high summit, accessible to all human beings and not just to a class or group, "there is no sacrifice that is not worth making, there is no fatigue that should be avoided. The purity that breathes on the top compensates well for the fatigue of the hillside’. It's like people say: it's worth fighting. And it's worth it! The intervention of the PCP brings forward these ideas, with concrete proposals so that it is possible to materialize the formulation of the individual's integral culture, beginning with education and ensuring compliance with the Constitution. For all this, and even more, putting in the letter of the law the freeness of school textbooks is a measure of enormous scope and importance which must be deepened and never neglected. At the initiative of the PCP, the progressive freeness of school textbooks for all compulsory education was included as an objective for this legislature. More than 1 million students attending compulsory education will benefit from this measure. We have been fighting and, with the proposal and intervention of the CFP, we have been breaking down the obstacles that have prevented it from being realized. We will continue to fight for the defence and full respect of this right and for its full realization, ensuring that public school is, in fact, free of charge, quality and for all. In fact, a valued public school is fundamental to advance. It is essential to advance in participation in everyday life, for individual and collective emancipation, to remove all the problems that prevent the human being from being able to trace the path of culture, so that it is possible to recognize and appreciate the immense artistic and democratic heritage of those who have given so much to the culture of our country, as is the case of José Afonso. The work he left was suitable for the feeling of the people, in a particularly vivid way, in the times of the fascist dictatorship and at the time of the liberation of the bites that condemned the people and the country in the long fascist night. The PCP project approved today does not intend to bring José Afonso to the lights of the roll, to which he was known to have. On the contrary, it is fraternal to point out that this work, which transcends man, is heritage of all, ensuring that it is estimated, valued, disclosed, protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u689	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u690	For this, it is also necessary to provide the country with a true public service of culture. On a proposal from the CFP, today the declaration of the 1 % allocation of the State budget for culture was adopted as a goal for cultural democratization. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to move from the role of practice in order to have a public service of culture that guarantees the access of all, throughout the national territory, to the experience of cultural and artistic creation and use. This 1 % for culture is even urgent to combat precariousness, hire poor workers, value wages and reduce working hours, increase public support for the arts, defend cultural heritage, develop cinematographic creation, increase support for literary creation, promote book creation and reading, defend and promote the popular association movement, guarantee the access of all to the whole culture. The next governments now have to respect this resolution and indeed have to take action. The PCP here will, as always, be in the struggle to make it a reality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u691	You then have the floor to Mrs Jamila Madeira for a statement of vote on the Health Bases Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u692	Mr President, first of all, I would like to begin by saying that this declaration of vote, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, was made by President Carlos César, but, because of the misfortune of life, as is known to all by the vote we voted at the beginning of this session, he had to travel to the Azores to follow the funeral ceremonies of our comrade André Bradford. However, President Carlos César wanted to keep track of this moment of so much importance on the Health Bases Act, leaving a testimony from the Parliamentary Group of the entire legislative process around the Health Base Act. This is a historic and materially very relevant legislative act, that of the approval, which we conclude today, of the Health Bases Act. It represents the repeal of an inadequate law, almost three decades old, and therefore represents the change of a postulate in the obligation to provide health care to people, proceeding to conform to the new challenges of the 21st century. It represents the reaffirmation of the founding principles of the SNS, to which we are closely linked, in the pioneering initiative in 1979, of the Socialist Party and its honorary President António Arnaut. The law we voted here today is for Portuguese and Portuguese, who have the right to health protection, and objectively holds the State responsible for this guarantee. It is a law that strengthens the SNS, defining the bases that reconfigure it and munition for a more efficient, more universal and more adapted performance to the changes that have occurred in the meantime. It is not a law designed to inhibit the initiative of the private and social sectors. It is a law made to affirm the primary responsibility of the public sector. It is also a law resulting from parliamentary consultation, much worked for which, to a greater or lesser extent, all parliamentary parties have contributed, without exception, as many organizations, entities and personalities have been heard. It is a law that has a little of them all and that is made to serve the Portuguese and the SNS. It is, therefore, a good law! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u693	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u694	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to repeal the Law on Health Bases of the right, which was one of the causes of the degradation of the National Health Service, to repeal the decree-law of Durão Barroso, which allowed public-private partnerships and greater promiscuity in health, which both affects the National Health Service, to strengthen the National Health Service as a guarantee of access to health and health protection in Portugal, to make it clear that health is a right and not a business, to meet the challenge that was left to the country and this Parliament by Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo is a good way to finish this legislation. The Left Block has been very committed to this final outcome and therefore we cannot help but remember who launched this discussion and we cannot help remembering those with whom we made this path, so many and so many health professionals that we have joined together, so many and so many activists for a strengthened public health system that have joined us on this path. We understand well the irritation of the right, there is still little exposed in their interventions. It is an irritation of those who think that health is a commodity and that the user is a customer, but to be very sincere, this irritation does not matter to the National Health Service or to the users. What matters today is that we have created the basis for the relaunch of the National Health Service in this Assembly of the Republic. What is interesting is that today we create the starting point for so many discussions that will be essential in the near future, namely to ensure public management throughout the National Health Service; to ensure the strengthening of financial and human resources; to implement the literature for health, which is now explicit in the Basics Law; to review and enhance careers that value and motivate professionals; to ensure the exclusivity of professionals and the complementarity of the private and the social in relation to the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u695	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u696	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that these are the bases we are laying today. The Block is full of energy to continue this debate around the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u697	Mr Carla Cruz has the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u698	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today is a very important day for the SNS, for its users and professionals. The intervention of the CFP was decisive for the approval of a Progressive Basics Act, which upholds and values the SNS, which ensures its public, universal and general character, which enshrines the principle of public management of the SNS institutions and which repeals legislation on the private public partnership regime. It was also crucial for the CFP to be included in the law in a basic principle for the separation of sectors, the principle that the State only resorts to private and social sectors in an alternative way, temporarily and while the SNS does not have the capacity to respond. It was also crucial to intervene in the PCP for the exemption of moderate rates in primary and self-referred health care and the integration of care, as well as for the appreciation of professionals, ensuring teamwork, their participation in monitoring and evaluation of health policies, career integration, the stability of the bond, the fight against precariousness and the walk to their exclusive dedication. The CFP's intervention was also decisive in order to ensure the higher and post-graduate training of health professionals, in order to ensure that SNS funding was made on the basis of the State budget, providing the necessary means for an adequate and prompt response, so that the multiannual planning of investments would be included in the law and in the creation of local health systems. The CFP will be here to monitor and also to demand compliance with what has been approved today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the adoption of the new Health Bases Act does not prevent, before it requires that budgetary measures be complied with and implemented that enable the problems remaining in the National Health Service, such as the hiring of professionals in need and the strengthening of public investment, which must be taken urgently. The PCP was today, as it is and will continue to be, next to the National Health Service, general, universal and free. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u699	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u700	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I shall make a statement of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party on the new Health Bases Act. at the end of four years of Government of the Left, the National Health Service — and I quote — « runs the risk of becoming a caricature of what its founders wanted ». By continuing to quote: "Today, unfortunately, the SNS is very close to a serious crisis" and "the confidence of citizens in the SNS has been shaken daily by complaints about waiting times for consultation or surgery, delays in emergencies and shortages of equipment, personnel, conditions of reception and treatment". Thus spoke the socialist suspect Correia de Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u701	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u702	In the face of these overwhelming criticisms, and not being able to counter the real degradation that brought to the National Health Service, in the face of such despair, what made the left parliament? The usual recipe: to find an external enemy that lightens its responsibilities so that Portuguese attention is diverted to the grave problems they face in access to public health services. [[BE's protests.]] The Basic Law adopted today is perhaps the most finished synthesis of the government cooperative given by the name « management ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u703	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u704	In its articulated, it is an ideologically sectarian law, manageably statisticizing, legally contradictory, legislatively mediocre. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] It is a law that ignores important realities, such as demographic ageing or continuous and palliative care, a law that undermines the health promotion aspect and devalues public and environmental health, a law that does not solve and all goes on and, for this reason, the PSD voted against. The PSD voted against because it believes in a health system shaped by cooperation between public, private and social sectors. The PSD voted against because it believes in an SNS based on primarily public management,... [[Protests by BE Members José Moura Soeiro and Luís Monteiro.]] ... but where recourse to third sectors can be found whenever necessary, advantageous and actually brings gains to the patient, both in terms of costs and quality. We believe in an SNS that is committed to obtaining health gains for citizens, especially for the most fragile and vulnerable. The PSD is, as it has always been, in the field of moderate democratic forces. Who changed was this Socialist Party! A PS completely stuck to the radical left, unable to dialogue to the center.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u705	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u706	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the left can change the Health Bases Act, but the truth is that the SNS has come to degrade itself and it is not this Basics Law that will change it and, at least, improve the life and access of Portuguese to health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u707	In addition to a statement of vote on the Health Bases Act, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u708	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without irritation, but with the right to democratically express our opinion — which, in fact, we also confer on others, although the reverse, unfortunately, is not always true — here I am, on behalf of the CDS, to say that today, in plenary, the adoption of the so-called new Basics Law represents a lost opportunity for the Portuguese, represents the triumph of a hand full of nothing, illusion, the stagnation that would be after this sinuous, hasty and irresponsible process that we would have a vision for the future of the country and a resolution of the serious immediate health problems in Portugal. Not at all! Not at all! Unfortunately, what prevailed were political games, it was the victory of ideological prejudice, subtracting solutions to Portuguese, but allowing each of the management partners to compete on television to say that victory was theirs here. This is very small and strongly harms the Portuguese! For us, of course, it was necessary to go further, of course it was necessary to have ambition and vision to bring new answers to areas such as support to caregivers, continuous and palliative care, new forms of management, genomics, mental health, public health, to say only a few. But no! I am saying again: today is not a historic day, today we do not honor the memory of the founders of the SNS, today there is no future to solve problems and create new solutions for the health of Portuguese. The CDS will continue to fight, as it has always done, for the protection of the right to health, from north to south of the country, to correct the injustices and social injustices that four years of socialist governance, with the support of the left benches, created the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u709	Injustice is taxpayers' money going to private hospitals! That's injustice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u710	In fact, we will continue to propose solutions and we welcome, finally, after so many contracts, the autonomy of the institutions today, on a proposal from the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u711	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u712	...to effectively find solutions for the SNS, which, unfortunately, this government is threatening. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u713	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the explanations of vote on amendments to the Labour Code. First of all, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u714	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for an amendment to the Labour Code which was adopted today in Parliament is, first of all, a "continuist" proposal for the PSD and CDS policy, which maintains all cuts made in labour law during the period of the troika, which maintains the degradation of collective bargaining due to its unilateral expiry, which maintains total deprotection of workers by shift. Secondly, this is a retroactive proposal, and it is a retroactive proposal because, after the negotiation with the left, in particular in the working group between the Government and the Left Block, for measures to combat precariousness, the Government was, in social consultation, negotiating with the employers' confederations a number of counterparties which annul and mitigate those measures which had been negotiated with the left. In fact, the Socialist Party retreated twice: the Government retreated, in social consultation, with respect to what had been negotiated with the left to have the agreement of the bosses, and the Socialist Party even retreated with regard to proposals which it had approved, in general vote, namely those of the Left Block. The final result is that we will have, in several respects, a law that not only keeps what was already bad, but that worsens the law that already existed, for example, with regard to very short-term oral contracts or the experimental period. Thirdly, this bill is contrary to the rights of workers and offends the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We have already said that the experimental period is that of greater precariousness, of greater vulnerability, in which the constitutional principle of safety in employment is suspended. In 2009 the Constitutional Court plummeted and considered unconstitutional the extension of the experimental period to six months. Now, the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS come, with this proposal, to approve the duplication of the experimental period for young people seeking the first job and for long-term unemployed. This is a discriminatory measure, it is an offensive measure concerning the constitution and stains this legislation and the way it closes, especially in the chapter on labour rights. This proposal therefore deserves the opposition of the Block, which will do everything to ensure that it does not pass the law and that the Constitutional Court does not allow it to set up a law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u715	For a statement of vote on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u716	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was not because of the lack of proposals from the CFP that there was no opportunity to decide on replacement and acquisition of rights. At all these times, the PCP proposals were rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. The extension of the experimental period cannot be the currency of exchange for the limitation of long-term contracts for young people and long-term unemployed. Don't fight precariousness with unconstitutionality...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u717	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u718	... and this insistence of the PS should be registered by the CFP and should require the request for preventive supervision and the performance of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u719	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u720	The CFP submitted proposals for the end of the expiry of collective bargaining and for the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle; for the replacement of the rules and values of redundancies; for 35 hours for all workers, the public and the private; for the end of the hours, adaptability and deregulation of the hours; for the replacement of the nighttime from 20 hours to 7 hours in the morning; for the replacement of the payment value of the additional work and on the working day and their compensatory rest; for the 25 days of the holiday; for a permanent job to be an effective contract; for the end of the very short-term work contracts; for the limitation of the use of overtime and temporary work, ensuring the integration of workers into the tables of the user companies; for the compulsory payment of the allowance; for the strengthening of the hourly credits of the members of the workers' committees, among other rights. Within the framework of the shiftwork scheme, we proposed limiting shiftwork to the strictly necessary situations; compulsory payment of shift allowance; early retirement age due to wear and penosity of this type of work provision; compulsory medical examinations with semi-annual periodicity. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to all these proposals, the availability of the PS was zero! The availability of PS to strengthen workers'rights was to find in the PSD and CDS the « hill » it needed to eliminate all proposals from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u721	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u722	That's why, sirs. Members, these proposals were rejected today in 2019, but they can count on the continued struggle of workers. The proposals were rejected, but at so many other times in the history of humanity, the rights were not offered to workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u723	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u724	... they were conquered with their courage, with their resistance and with their struggle. There we will be to live in a more just country, where the development of workers' rights is part of the day-to-day society. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u725	For a statement of vote, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u726	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has always been very clear throughout this legislative process. We understand that it was the law currently in force that allowed the recovery of employment and, therefore, we considered this bill, now approved, unnecessary. In the CDS, we respected the social agreement and what resulted from a tripartite negotiation between workers, employers and government. We know how to respect social consultation and, for us, that is a fundamental principle. It is true that labour legislation has confronted the majority that supports the current government with its own contradictions. There are parties that support the government that are against social dialogue and social dialogue and these contradictions have become too evident in the same legislative process. The CDS was demanding with the Government and the Socialist Party. We did not accept that the social agreement should be reversed in the proposal of the Government or in the proposals of the Socialist Party, and we always rejected all attempts by the Left Block and the CFP to destroy the consensus and agreement reached in social consultation in the Assembly of the Republic. The CDS, with its abstention, comes out of this process of quiet consciousness. We have not allowed that agreement to be distorted, we have been on the front line of defense of social dialogue and we have guaranteed the basic principle of good faith of any negotiation, which is that the agreements are to be complied with. We demand this very much from the Government and the Socialist Party, and I am glad that it was possible to achieve this same end. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u727	For a statement of vote, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u728	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has said and reiterates that existing labour legislation has allowed a recovery from the world of work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u729	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u730	... what has happened since 2013. Employment increases and unemployment decreases. So for us, PSD, this was not the time to change a law that has given positive signs. It happens that the Government and the social partners have signed an agreement in terms of social dialogue and the PSD has always said that it would respect that agreement and do everything within its power to ensure that it is respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u731	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u732	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, essentially, with our intervention, the agreement was finally respected. What we couldn't afford was that the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party used this process to introduce matters that were beyond the scope of the social agreement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u733	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u734	... single and simply flags for opportunistic use, on the eve of legislative elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u735	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u736	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u737	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, social consultation is the cornerstone of a consistent and solid change in labour law and therefore cannot be done on its own. It is in the dialogue that the best solutions are achieved, it is the dialogue that allows us the political and social stability necessary for the development of our economy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD abstained in this vote because, essentially, the result of our intervention, the agreement has been fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u738	Finally, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u739	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss labour laws, when we discuss the world of work, we necessarily discuss the introduction, preservation and promotion of fairer labour relations between two parties, always bearing in mind that we are not dealing with two equal parts. We are necessarily dealing with a weaker part and a stronger part, with no pure balance. We know this well and the PS and the socialists have given good signs of the path we have made in the world of work. It is very unfair to re-emerge certain walls when we see what has happened over the past four years. We have now heard the right to say that the labour legislation that has passed in earlier times has created jobs. Labour law does not create more or less jobs, but makes these jobs more or less fair, and it would be very important for the PSD to tell us exactly what the work laws passed in their time that allowed them to create jobs — eventually, cutting holidays or freezing wages. [[Protests by PSD Members Adam Silva and Clara Marques Mendes.]] We have made the reverse way, over this period, with the increase of the national minimum wage, the replacement of holidays, the law of combating harassment at work, the new law of transmission of establishment, the accountability of temporary workers and, in the public sector, the replacement of 35 hours of work, the plan of regularization of precariouss, the replacement of supplements in the business sector of the State. We've reached the agreement. For the first time, an agreement was possible which is not regressive and allows substantial improvements in several dimensions, such as the reduction of contracts to term, the rate which penalises excessive turnover, among many others. No deal is absolute. In fact, in this Parliament, the PSD has already led to a working agreement and, therefore, in respect for parliamentary autonomy, we present proposals for amendment. We regret that these proposals have not been adopted with the lead of the left-hand parties and the lead of the right-hand parties. We're sorry, but we're gonna keep going. We heard here today that fight continues. On the side of the Socialist Party, it will continue to respect the differences, without artificial walls, without artificial differences, placing the dignity of the workers at the centre of our intervention in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-19.u740	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our last plenary meeting. In principle, legislation will still last for three months, but also in principle, this is the last plenary meeting. Although I had the opportunity to say good-bye to the ladies. Vice-Presidents, particularly those who have already announced that they will leave Parliament, such as Vice-President José de Matos Correia and Vice-President Teresa Caeiro, of whom we all miss but who is well and will recover, would in any way welcome all those who will not be present in the Standing Committee, as well as those who do not know whether or not they will be in a next plenary session in the next Parliament. I therefore greet you all. I am grateful for the joint work that we have all done, the mutual trust that we have been gaining over the months. I wish you all, individually and personally, politically, civicly and democratically, the greatest happiness. [[General applause, stand up.]] The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 7 minutes.]]
