ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we get to the agenda, I would ask Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Pedro Alves, to announce to the House the entry into the Bureau of a set of initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by announcing the withdrawal of draft resolution No 2035 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the triangulation of agri-food markets in the outermost regions of Portugal through air cargo transport. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law Nos 191 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1981 and 1985, which falls to 1. the Commission, 192 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — implements Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, which implements enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which falls to 1. the Commission with connection to 4. the Commission, and 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the regime of the European arrest warrant, which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Bills No. 1180 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Organic structure and form of management of protected areas, which falls to 7. the Commission with connection to 11. the Commission, 1181 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates an asset benefit on deferred tax assets covered by the special scheme approved by Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August 2014 which falls to 5. the Commission, 1182 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Privilege the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1183 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects children who witness crimes of domestic violence and makes it compulsory to collect statements for future memory during the investigation ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims ), which falls to 1. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 129 / XIII / 4 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 36 / 2019, of 15 March, which mitigates the effects of the freezing between 2011 and 2017 on the teaching career. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of draft resolutions Nos 2056 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allocate the necessary financial resources for urgent work at EB 2, 3 D. António Ferreira Gomes, in Ermesinde, Hall of Valongo, 2057 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Requalification of School EB 2, 3 Mario de Sá Carneiro, in the municipality of Loures, 2058 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the People's Republic of China, 2059 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the protection of the common roll, through a temporary moratorium on its hunt, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2060 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government prepare an epidemiological and / or environmental study to assess the effects of economic activities, including industrial activities, as well as environmental liabilities in the village of Paio Pires, Seixal municipality, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and effective measures in the responses of day care centres and homes of elderly people to children and descendants of Portuguese and Luso-descendants returning or entering Portugal from Venezuela, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2062 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the activities of women, the immediate regularisation of social security lovers, under PREVPAP, the review of their regime and measures to combat false green receipts of the women framed in IPSS, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2063 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — potentiating tariff reduction for a strategic bet on the promotion of public transport, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2064 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a new environmental impact study in the framework of the Fridão Hydroelectric Development project, with a strict assessment of the risks to the affected territories and populations, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 2065 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government make available and disclose regularly the information related to the responses created in the context of prevention, contingency, regulation and support to farmers and livestock producers in drought situations, which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then enter the first item on the agenda, which corresponds to a PSD marking, with the joint discussion of the following legislative initiatives on the subject of higher education : Bill No 1172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — low-density higher education stimulus scheme, 1173 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the legal regime for the evaluation of higher education and 1174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Interpretational provision on propina, in general; Draft Resolution No 2051 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Higher education for children of Portuguese immigrants; Law Projects Nos 810 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the School Social Action Framework Law in Higher Education and defines specific support for students, 811 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Financing of public higher education, 1145 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ), 1179 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers, 1143 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers and 1177 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Alter the legal regime of higher education institutions strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime, also in general; Resolution Projects Nos 2054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the procedure for assessing the application of RJIES and 2055 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government clarify procedures for capturing Luso-descendant and emigrant candidates for Portuguese higher education institutions; and Draft Law No 1171 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Clarify the system of remuneration progression of higher education teachers, in general. in this circumstance, for the presentation of the initiatives, the order of intervention shall be the same as the structure of the agenda, with the precedence presented. Of course, for each intervention on the initiatives themselves, if any, there will be questions and answers. Having made this clarification, he drew attention to the House because, before giving the floor for the first intervention in the debate, he wanted to inform that a Helvetical Delegation is present in the Gallery of High Individualities, chaired by the President of the Council of the States of the Swiss Federal Assembly and composed of a group of Members, accompanied by our President of the Assembly of the Republic. I invite the House for a greeting to everyone. [[General applause, stand up.]] Having said that, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor to present the PSD initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u4	Mr President, Dear Colleagues : The PSD has marked today's debate with the aim of taking higher education further, with merit, autonomy and responsibility, to look at students, institutions, regions, the country and the serious problems that are being faced today and which are expected, in the future, to be unanswered. This is a debate of proposals that join the various that the PSD presented throughout the legislature, such as the appreciation of knowledge, the fight against abandonment, student housing, social action or special educational needs. Unfortunately, in this legislature, the government had, in higher education and science, an action marked by lack of ambition, disorientation, inability to carry out and demagogy. Lack of ambition that the legislative agreements are the best example! Only those who are satisfied with little will assume as a legislative programme the same as a government under financial assistance can give: the commitment that higher education institutions would receive in 2019 the same as they received in 2015. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u5	Lack of ambition and strategy combined the lack of speech. Today, we know that the government did not comply with the agreement in 2017 and 2018 and does not comply with it in 2019. The institutions claim insufficient expenditure already incurred and imposed by the Government. But it is also a disoriented government, which is an example of the cut of 5 % vacancies last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u7	When questioned, the Minister classified the result of this decision as, and I quote, "a great success". No one understood and the truth is that, a few days ago, the Minister himself came to say that he would go back to measure. After all, you need to look at the courses and not geography! The country pays for a minister's mistakes! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u8	This is a government with no capacity to carry out, which has agreed late to the housing problem, has made a façade plan and is now unable to compromise with numbers of beds available for the coming academic years; or, in scientific employment, with numbers far below those announced, just six months from the end of the Legislature. But it is, above all, a demagogic government which says that it is giving the possibility of doctors to politicians, deceiving public opinion and not altering neither the Basic Law nor the legal regime, as is required. And it is clearly a demagogic government that with a Minister of Science who now subscribes a manifesto against himself and against the politics of his government, now, a few months later, has a vision and claims that there is full employment among doctors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u9	For the PSD, taking higher education further means affirming a strategy for its growth, diversification and enlargement, focused on people and society. The PSD today focuses its proposals on creating opportunities in low-density territories and affirming the Portuguese language in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u11	Incentives are inserted here for the creation of double-titled study cycles and areas of scientific excellence and also programs + Superior for the interior and Erasmus + Interior. Public policies must be guided by the clarity of principles, the appreciation of merit and a strengthening of quality and autonomy associated with responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u13	in this context, we clarify the concept of propina, solving, in rates and emoluments, the less media injustices that do not interest the government, and we present the first amendment to the legal system of evaluation of higher education, in order to suit European standards of reference. Having marked this debate to take higher education further, now come, to six months of the elections, the parties that were united to govern, without great success, to show their differences. It is a pity that the works done do not prove the words said, but that a government does not make promises, hand grips or catapults. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u14	For PSD, knowledge is the basis of the value of modern development and for this it is critical to create in young people a culture of merit and responsibility, a culture of territorial cohesion in which everyone has access to the same opportunities. Every day, the country realizes that, while this government rules on behalf of an idyllic past that wants to recover — for itself and for no one else! — the PSD represents hope and development in the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u15	There are four entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u16	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u17	So that's how it's going to be done. You have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD today brings the debate to higher education and reveals particular concern about stimulating higher education in low-density territories. An always legitimate concern, but is it true, by the PSD, considering the past of bad memory, where the interior was so despised, abandoned and, I would say, closed with essential public services, like the courts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u19	That's the one! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u20	It says the PSD in its bill, and I quote: «(...) our population does not have all the same opportunities and living conditions. But if this lack of opportunities affects in particular the populations of these territories, it feels redoubled in the age range of the younger. (...) it is extraordinarily difficult for a young person to have life prospects in one of these territories(...) ». That's right! But if so, Mrs. Member, why did they close structures as relevant to young people as the Portalegre Youth Inn and existing services in the building when they ruled? Oh, my God! Why have these young people made life even more difficult? Oh, my God! On the days of the proximity of this Parliamentary Group, we visited, still this Monday, this building full of valences in the level of training, counseling, health and family planning, an equipment with an auditorium so relevant to that city, which is again re-emerging itself and gaining life,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... after degradation and abandonment suffered by the PSD's political option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u22	The space will now again be a hostel, which will form an integral part of the student accommodation plan, the result of the dialogue with the Portalegre Polytechnic. Yes! The polytechnic was also devalued and despised! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Student accommodation, youth hostel and valences that are already in progress: sexual health, counseling and training. That's what's happening. So I initially spoke in authenticity between what is proclaimed in the opposition and what is done when it is governed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u24	...or, better, when it comes to education, knowledge and higher education. The truth is that the Socialist Party has increased the allocation for public institutions of higher education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u25	They've increased the allocation, but they haven't paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u26	Behave yourself! Behave yourself! It's hard for you to hear, but listen! Look, instead of behaving badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u27	... which rose 10 % between 2016 and 2019, and the total number of students increased 4 % between 2015 and 2018. It was also an important measure to attract students to the interior, due to the increase in the number of vacancies in these territories, together with a set of incentives. It is therefore worth highlighting the increase of students placed at first option in institutions inside, especially in Tomar, Portalegre, Bragança, Beja, Santarém, Castelo Branco, Vila Real and Guarda. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, extending the social base of higher education and stimulating territorial cohesion and balance, through an equitable distribution of higher education students across the various regions, has been our focus. Your initiative therefore adds nothing to our ongoing strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u28	Strictly nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u29	The Superior + Program, whose model we modified and scope we expanded in 2016, has been a priority...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u30	That was the previous government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u31	...and has been central in government action, as evidenced by the growing evolution of awards. Comparing with the academic year 2015 / 2016, the number of active scholarships of the Program + Superior more than doubled, reaching, in 2017 / 2018, 3473 scholarships. The number of new scholarships increased by more than 50 % when compared to the beginning of 2015 / 2016, being available for this school year 1605 new scholarships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u32	More than 50%! Listen to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u33	It should be pointed out that by 2019 the value of these scholarships will be €1700, an increase and a reinforcement for these students. This programme, above all, aims to promote equal opportunities, so we disagree with the changes proposed by the PSD through this initiative when it removes the criterion of economic deficiency, distorting the model that we advocate and which is directed exclusively to students of economically weaker families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u34	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u35	In conclusion, does the PSD not consider that public financial resources should be primarily invested in students with the highest levels of economic shortage?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u37	Mrs Deputy, besides the social dimension of this option, does she not consider that these are the students whose decision-making process may be more induced by financial stimulus, so what should be the focus of support in this group? Oh, my God! by the sights, they do not communicate this vision and so we distance ourselves from your option. In conclusion, Mr President, good public policies always produce good results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u38	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u39	This was the case in the economy, employment and social inequalities. It will thus be with the appreciation of the interior and Portugal 2030, in the pursuit of a more balanced, more coherent and more convergent country, where knowledge has been central to our political action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to try to work together to ensure that the rules are complied with properly. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u41	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the PSD and Mrs Margarida Mano for bringing this issue to debate. The PSD presents a set of proposals that are generally targeted for candidates and for higher education students and I would like to focus on two of these proposals. The first, which has already been dealt with here by the Socialist Party, is envisaged in the diploma establishing the stimuli and incentives to the institutions of higher education of the interior. We generally agree with the PSD proposal, both with regard to dual titration and with the idea of the Higher + Programme, and in fact disagree with the view of the Socialist Party. The idea is not to push into the territories of low density the poorest or the most disadvantaged, but to ensure that the territories of low density become interesting for all kinds of students who want to drive there. Therefore, we do not subscribe to the criticism made by the Socialist Party. But on Article 7. the, in defining the Erasmus + Interior Program, we have some questions. The first of these concerns the fact that there are already two mobility programmes between higher education institutions: the Almeida Garrett Programme for Universities and the Vasco Program for Polytechnics. I would like to begin by asking the PSD whether it has any grounded data to somehow replace these programs or if, in fact, the proposal it makes with this Erasmus + Interior Programme does not replace them but is cumulative with these programs. We would like to understand this, because we could not find any information about statistics in any of the Ministry of Science's repositories, about the impact these programs have had. What we are told is that, if you have any impact, this impact is contrary to your spirit, because what they do is to bring students from the interior to the coast and not from the coast to the interior. Still in relation to this program, they propose a scholarship of 1000 € per semester. I remember that when the program was presented by Prof. Graça Carvalho, also from the PSD, it was mentioned in 400 € per month. Now, there's a slightly different value. I would like to know what the amendment was and what it justifies. The bill also states that it will enter into force in the year following the next State Budget, which means that it can only enter into force between 2021 and 2022. Do you confirm that this is the idea? Finally, to finish, the PSD presents another bill with an interpretative standard on the tip, which circumscribes the type of data that should be included in it. But, a month ago, we discussed here a draft resolution of the Block, which proposed, and was approved, that there was a centralized meeting between the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities), the CCISP (Coordinator Council of Political Higher Institutes) and the Ministry of Education, to define what should or should not be considered in the table of emoluments. It also provided that the financial impact that this might have had to be transferred by the Ministry. I wonder if the PSD has consulted the CRUP and the CCISP for this project which they present here, if they agree, and if there is any budgetary safeguard, given, above all, that the propines will expected to decrease by €200 next year, and that this will have an impact on what, from this point of view, universities will build. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u42	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u43	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Margarida Mano. I would like to share these concerns which, in fact, we also have in relation to higher education. Anyone who hears Mrs Margarida Mano's speech will be thinking that the PSD brings here today proposals to address the root of these many problems, which, in fact, still exist in public higher education. Only not, because, for lack of funding, the PSD brings nothing to the discussion. [[PSD protests.]] For the deep limitation of school social action, we also do not properly record any proposals that will solve the problems that are effectively felt by students in this area. In addition, there is even a proposal that, being applied to the letter, as it is, can even generate more inequalities, favoring those who already have more means, to the detriment of those who most need support at the level of school social action. They do not even defend the end of the propines, in fact, were at the root of the implantation of the propines and their successive increase. They are in favour of them and, therefore, it is one more of the problems of students that remains to be solved. They do not advocate the strengthening of the democracy of higher education institutions, nor do they bring this proposal here. It does not even come here to propose the repeal of the founding regime, in fact, until now it is not quite clear what the PSD's position on this matter is, but, by default, at least it will be the agreement. They also come here to present projects that speak in the appreciation of the interior, but PSD and CDS — we agreed that merit is distributed — in the last government, what they did best and knew how to do was to infernify life to youth, particularly within, because they closed public services, invited young people to emigration, demonstrated zero sensitivity to all those who had, then, immense difficulties and had to abandon public higher education or even the Country. Now, in fact, they present a package of palliatives just to mark the point. Madam Member, the question is this: instead of presenting proposals that do not solve the problems, will they follow the CFP in the substantive proposals, which can effectively improve public higher education in our country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u44	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Margarida Mano brings an important issue to today's debate, which is higher education, which is democratic and, at the same time, quality. If it is true that we should have an in-depth debate on social action mechanisms, funding of higher education, inclusion mechanisms for those coming from secondary education or even from outside the country for higher education, it is also true that we should look at the organic of higher education. When I say « for the organic of higher education», I do not speak directly to you about the revision of the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions (RJIES), I am speaking precisely of a topic which has been under discussion here, also in Parliament, and in all higher education institutions, which is that of the defrosting careers in higher education, more specifically of the so-called «remunerative progressions» of higher education teachers, university and polytechnics. We know that in 2018 this situation was thawed and the right to the progression of all these teachers was guaranteed. The truth is that we arrived at the end of March 2019 and there are still institutions that did not even make their assessment process and there are a set of outrageous injustices among teachers from the same higher education institution. I know well, and you know Mrs. Member, better than many people, because, besides being a Member, she had responsibilities in the Reitória da Universidade de Coimbra, she is a teacher of higher education and therefore knows the system and its functioning well than creating injustice among teachers and creating a war between directors of institutions and teachers with the right to progress is the worst thing we can do in an institution that wants to be democratic and that wants to be healthy. on our part, we have already had the opportunity to say: we have complete openness to approve the draft resolution presented by the PSD in Parliament on the issue of remuneration progress, regardless of the PSD that has not scheduled it for this debate. The question is very simple, Mrs. Member : knowing of your history of positioning and the history of positioning of your parliamentary group in committee, how will you vote today the bill of the Left Block to ensure, once and for all, the end of injustices in the progression of these teachers of higher education? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u46	To answer, you now have the floor to Mrs Margarida Mano.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u47	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put to me by colleagues Susana Amador, Ana Rita Bessa, Ana Mesquita and Luís Monteiro. I shall try, in summary, to answer or address the questions that have actually been raised to me. With regard to Mrs Susana Amador, I would say that no questions have been asked, some comments have been made, not certainly looking at the performance of this government but at the past of which I spoke, of which they seem to be hostages. A past that, as we all know, if we live it was thanks to the socialist governments that were ruling. What I would say is that those who do not seem to be at least aware of the policies and needs of the interior are this government, in the field of science, cutting vacancies by 5 %, increasing vacancies, watching courses and seeing geography, because it does not have the slightest idea what you are doing. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the issue of low density is clearly a very important issue. Unfortunately, as has been customary on the part of this Government, no information on existing programmes is available. In any case, the two programmes he referred to are mobility programmes between institutions. This is a different program, because it aims at mobility for low density and not in any way. And the 1000 € are per semester and not per year, since 1500 € is currently the annual value offered. With regard to rates and emoluments, of course, we were concerned to talk to the institutions that charge them. Mrs Ana Mesquita, we understand that the problems that the CFP sees in relation to higher education are not those that the PSD sees. On the other hand, we also understand the inability of the CFP to resolve the existing problems in this government solution. The issue of funding is a good example, because the Budget is approved in this House with the votes of the parties that support the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u49	...and, therefore, the financing which the institutions have is clearly the financing which the Government understands well. Moreover, returning to Mrs Susana Amador's questions, it is important to say that the appropriations have increased, but have increased less than 60% than the commitments which the Government has made with the institutions in respect of the charges. Finally, Mr. Luís Monteiro, of course, we are interested in taking higher education further and therefore we can understand very well the curiosity of the Left Block, but obviously at the right time you will have your answer. However, the situation that exists, of two aspects autonomously versus general law, is clearly unacceptable and is solely responsible for this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u50	To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP begins by greeting all students who, during yesterday's day, went out on the street, marking the celebrations of Student Day and in defense of their rights. We also greet the teachers of higher education and their unions, present here, in the galleries. The current architecture of the functioning of higher education is based on a triangle that little or nothing has virtuous: on each side, they are financing, social action school and legal regime of higher education institutions. Today, the CFP proposes the profound change in the structure which has expired and which does not give the proper response to the needs of students and higher education workers as well as the country. More than mere palliatives, what we propose is the necessary transformation, by valuing a public service essential to collective development and by ensuring that all those who study and work in public higher education have dignified and fair conditions. What the reality has shown is that the autonomy of institutions without democracy, without sufficient and valued workers and without financial means does not work alone. On the contrary, it only becomes a biombo of precariousness and exploitation, which contributes to the eternalization of difficulties and not to its effective resolution. I fear - I have seen it in the most unfortunate situations, such as the cases of the application of the Scientific Job or the Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), or in the question of wage progressions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u53	In the Scientific Job, the public funds bags continue outside. At the University of Algarve, there was, on Friday, a shameful episode, in which the institution requested the reassessment of requests for integration made by 19 researchers with precarious contracts, via PREVPAP. As for the progress made, only 3800 of the 13 000 teachers of higher education were able to make progress. On this last issue, we bring to the debate a bill that enforces the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers and aims at the application of the fairer regime, which considers most favourable to all workers, avoiding inequalities, without damaging career statutes with changes that would have to be negotiated before. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not with catavents that the fog spreads. It is necessary to intervene in legislation that pushes public higher education for the accentuation of injustices, a law that is the result of right-wing policy which has been played over the years by PS, PSD and CDS, a legislation that is a daughter of an old ambition of mercantilization and transformation of higher education into a business, furnishing it in the sphere of rights. Thus, we present an objective and non-discretionary basic institution financing methodology, ensuring the conditions necessary for the fulfilment of its specific mission with quality. We propose that the Government conclude with the institutions investment contracts for quality and multi-annual development contracts, assuming the need and advantage of meeting existing specificities. The disresponsibility of the State in public funding has been an increasing direct responsibility for families through the payment of tips, fees and emoluments, in a context where Portugal remains one of the world's most expensive countries to study in higher education. We want the end of the tips, we want the end of the fees and taxes and we advocate that investment through the State budget not only increases as it arrives in time. It is still necessary to end the deep limitation of school social action. Thus, we need more and better bags, more and better canteens, more and better residences, more and better indirect support, in general. This is what the CFP proposes, as a way of promoting equal opportunities in the frequency of higher education. As for the RJIES, we propose the elimination of the foundational regime, commercialist tool, privatization and attack on workers' rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u55	... and propose changes in the organisation and management of the institutions. We want to ensure the democratic participation and management required by the Constitution, involving teachers, researchers, students and employees; we want to eliminate the limitation of hiring teaching and non-teaching staff; we want the end of the imposition of external entities in the executive government bodies of the institutions; we want the incorporation of a progressive and democratic perspective for the development of the autonomy of institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u57	These are the proposals which the CFP considers essential for the transformation which takes place in public higher education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u58	Mrs Ana Mesquita, the Bureau records the entries of two Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. Does he answer globally?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u59	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u60	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u61	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I begin by congratulating the CFP on the initiatives brought by the debate and Mrs Mesquita for her presentation. I would like to ask you a few questions about some of the proposals and I will leave the rest for later because I do not have time to ask questions about everything now. The CFP proposes an extensive revision of the CSF, but there is one aspect of this proposal that deserves an extended debate—and we are available to do so in the future and whenever it proposes—which concerns improving the participatory and democratic nature of the management of higher education institutions. We believe that this democratic and participatory nature of the management bodies is always capable of being improved, and we will not look at this debate, but this democratization also goes through a concept of relationship between institutions and society. Now, there are some indicators in the CFP proposals that deserve us to question. For example, the CFP proposes the extinction of the body where, in institutions, more interaction is given between the representatives of those who study and work within the institutions and those who come from outside the institutions and who make this link between the social and economic environment from outside and the environment from within: the General Council. On the other hand, the CFP also proposes that there should be an end to the possibility of establishing consortia, both between institutions and other institutions of society, including those working in research and development. These indications, for us, are negative from the point of view of the inclusion of higher education in society. Of course we can also see this from a different point of view: the CFP makes proposals that will directly and directly oppose certain measures clearly stated in the Government's Programme. The Programme of this Government calls for the strengthening of the foundational regime; the Programme of this Government talks about encouraging the adoption of the foundational regime by public higher education institutions; the Programme of this Government talks about dedicating the responsibility of external members to institutions in their governing bodies; the Programme of this Government talks about encouraging the establishment of consortia and promoting ways of collaboration and sharing resources between institutions. The CFP proposes, for each of these items, exactly the opposite of what comes in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u62	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u63	Does the CFP await the support of the Socialist Party? Your parliamentary leader is already giving you an indication of how you can respond to this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u64	It's hard! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u65	... but, really, we are very interested in knowing whether it was now that the CFP understood that it was time to oppose the Government's programme in front of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u66	So many, it's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u67	What the honourable Member said was an ordinary man!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u68	This has several direct consequences, and on that I ask you a very clear question. For example, does the CFP want to end collaborative laboratories, which are precisely forms of collaboration between higher education institutions and other institutions outside the academy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u69	They're very important!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u70	Does the PCP really want to stop that? Oh, my God! I would like to ask you another question, Mrs Deputies. The PCP, in practice, ends with the number clauses. The CFP has a radical liberalizing measure with each institution itself: "Make the offers of vacancies that want the national and global management of vacancies nothing to do with that. Every institution you do as you wish! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u71	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u72	I'm done now, Mr. President. The question I ask you is this, Mrs. Member : you are aware that, by doing this, or if we had done so, in a few years, there would only be higher education institutions in Lisbon and Porto...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u74	...and there would be a desert in higher education in the rest of the country? Oh, my God! Do you know that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u76	Do you have the notion that it is the national regulatory mechanism that promotes the distribution of higher education throughout the national territory? Oh, my God! The CFP has definitely abandoned territorial equity, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u77	Mrs Laura Magalhães, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, has dropped the mask to the PCP! The mask has fallen! After voting four times in favour of the State budget? Oh, my God! Mr Deputies, the four budgets you approved, which voted in favour, had explicitly had nothing but the underfunding of higher education institutions. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u79	The honourable Member agrees with the fact that today Portuguese young people from economically disadvantaged family groups have many difficulties in continuing to attend higher education. In supporting this government, Mrs Deputy is an accomplice in the selection of students through her socio-economic background.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u81	It is complicit in the fact that 11 000 students, in the middle of March, have not yet had a final response to their requests for social action support. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] In the middle of March, 11 000 students still do not know whether or not they will have scholarships. And there is no need to change the Basics of Social Action Law to solve the problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u82	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u83	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u84	... it is necessary, yes, investment, that does not exist, and the PCP is consistent with that. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The PCP proposal does not solve or correct what is necessary: it does not solve the lack of accommodation, which is where the highest percentage of students' monthly expenses goes, nor does it correct the shameful delays in awarding scholarships. I recall that the honourable Member, in addition to having approved the four State budgets of this Government, did not accept a proposal from the PSD to vote against which she intended to increase the housing complement of students displaced by 40 %. So, Mrs. Deputy, I ask you, can you not be fooling the Portuguese people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u85	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u86	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Porfirio Silva and Mrs Laura Magalhães for their questions. Mr Porfirio Silva, what does the CFP want? It is easy to comply with the Constitution, to comply with everyone's right to access the highest levels of education, regardless of their social origin, and to ensure that everyone gets there. [[PCP applause.]] What we are doing today, Mr Porfirio Silva, is being consistent with what we have always presented. We have always tabled amendments to the financing law, we have always tabled amendments to the social action at school, we have always tabled amendments to the RJIES. It is not for today that the government is the PS that we stop doing, because indeed we will continue to work in defense of what is right. So we are here today to put forward decisive proposals for changing the state of things in higher education. And, Mrs Laura Magalhães, look, each one uses his own Members in the way you can. PCP Members have always served to defend the rights of students and higher education workers, while PSD Members have always voted against the country's progress,... [[PCP applause.]] ... in particular, against the rights of workers, penalizing workers, penalizing students, contributing to the worsening of the problems that are experienced and meanings in higher education. And, Mrs. Member, we have a wonderful opportunity here: it is today! Let's see how the PSD is going to vote today on the PCP proposals that respond to the hopes of workers and students. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u87	To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In October 2015, a set of agreements were signed that ensured the defrosting of careers throughout the public service. These agreements ensured, in turn, that, in the 2018 State Budget, this House approved, by a majority, the defrosting of the careers of university and technical higher education teachers. This news, which, in fact, has brought joy to unions and teachers throughout the country, has indeed proved ineffective until today. Ineffective why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Why isn't the State Budget Act of 2019 unlocking these money? Don't! Why does the State Budget law not guarantee this right to progress? Don't! Just because Rectors and Minister do not want to guarantee the effect and the right to progress of these university higher education teachers and polytechnic higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u90	Indeed, the role that rhetoric has taken in this matter is completely shameful. We have heard many times—and good! — that the rectors are not rectors, 'are' rectors! Well, then, if they are rectors, they are colleagues of those who are currently being highly penalized, but who divide their office, the classroom and the corridor of their college or higher school.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u92	In fact, what "are" directors are doing is just to ensure that this sort of leadership — very small of it — is making the overwhelming majority of the higher education class not entitled to access to their progress. It is regrettable that this happens and it is also regrettable that more than a year and a half after the adoption of the State budget to unlock this situation, it is exactly the same. Injustices were created, an objective injustice of the non-right to progression but also a relative injustice among teachers from various higher education institutions and also among teachers from the same higher education institution. In fact, in a clear breach of its own regulations, in a clear failure to comply with its own career statutes, in a clear failure to comply with the RJIES, sacrosanct in this House for PS, PSD and CDS, but in fact also in clear non-compliance with the State Budget Act of 2018 and the State Budget Act of 2019. So let's go to specific cases. It makes some sense, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a professor, who has been in a university since May 1984, has been associated with aggregation since 2006, was an assistant trainee between 1984 and 1989, hired as an assistant, with defenses of public evidence of scientific and pedagogical capacity soon in 1988, hired as an assistant teacher in 1995, after the defense of the doctorate, in 2017 he has 21 points in his assessment position, he has no right to gainful progress! But we can go to another case, even more scabrocious: between 2004 and 2006, it had « Very Good », which corresponds to 6 points ; between 2007 and 2009, it had « Good », which corresponded to 3 points ; between 2010 and 2011 it had « Very Good », which corresponds to 4 points ; in 2012 it had « Excellent », which corresponds to 3 points ; in 2013 and 2014 it had « Very Good », which corresponded to 4 points ; in 2015 and 2017 it had « Excellent », which corresponded to 9 points, does not have the right to gain! He has 20 years of home, he has several « Excellent», he has several « Very Good », he has more than 20 points, he has no right to remuneration progression. It is, in fact, a scourge for those who come here today—and well! — to present a set of initiatives to promote the quality of higher education. We cannot agree any more: this quality begins by guaranteeing career stability and the right to the progression of higher education teachers. That is precisely why we are presenting here today, in the Assembly of the Republic, a project that we want to see voted today at the end of the debate, in the vote, which harmonises an evaluation system where no one stays behind, where no one can stay behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It makes some sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a greater possibility of progress of teachers who have not been evaluated than of progress of teachers who have been evaluated, who have "Excellent", who have more than 20 points and, indeed, continue exactly with their remuneration value of 10 and 15 years ago? You don't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And it does not do just because in this legislature, and also in the past, the debate on the internal democracy of the institutions has been a real group of forces in the institutions and in Parliament itself. Today, we present here a thorough review of the legal regime of higher education institutions: we want a universal college in the election of the rector; we want parity in the management bodies; we want to ensure that the foundational model is not, in fact, more than a proliferation of a highly mercantilist modus operandi of higher education; we want to guarantee internal democracy, because we know that this internal democracy guarantees justice among teachers, justice between peers and does not put directions against teachers, nor requires teachers against directions. It is strange, in fact, that it is symptomatic of the democracy and health of the institutions that it is so often necessary for teachers and trade unions to come to court to solve problems of career status and progress when, in fact, what is on the table are matters taken to the court between colleagues, who, once again, I repeat, divide the portfolios of the institutions, who divide responsibilities into curricular units, who divide the corridors, who divide the cabinets and who divide the classrooms. It doesn't make sense! Higher education today combines the worst of the two worlds: on the one hand, a mercantilist vision, a nearly market, where, in fact, everything has to serve to guarantee production and profit, and on the other hand, the worst of a feudal system, where democracy is at the door and where those who are not friends of direction have no right to progress. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the time to unlock the situation of democracy and, at the same time, to unlock progress in higher education. We know well—and I look at all the benches and see that there are several higher education teachers, several professors who know the system well—that responsibility is political, it is party, but it is a social responsibility for those who today stand up as champion of the quality of political and university higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u93	Mrs Liliana Silva, from the PSD, wrote to request clarifications. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has brought about an important problem created by this government, so important that the PSD already has a proposal for an initiative in Parliament on this matter. In the PSD, we are well aware that a differentiation of methods used to define the progression criteria in different institutions leads to unfair excesses in progressions. Mrs. Members, how can the Left Block come here to act as a defender of teachers' rights of progression when they have approved the State Budget of 2019 without money for the institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u95	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u96	... apply the progressions as you here today require it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u97	The Left Block approved the State Budget Act for 2019. PSD warned that it did not meet the needs of a sector as vital to our country as it is the sector of higher education. Article 42. the State Budget Act, concerning the recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions, provides that they may enter into contracts, irrespective of the type of legal link to be established, provided that expenditure on staff in 2019 does not increase more than 3 % compared to the previous year. But what is presented as a measure of strengthening the autonomy of public higher education institutions is, in fact, a castrative measure of their ability to provide more and better services and their ability to generate more own revenue. With the exception of the application of PREVPAP, the remaining legislative amendments which have an impact on the expenditure of the institutions shall be counted as additional expenditure with staff, preventing the possibility of the additional 3 % provided for in Article 42. the, are used to open new competitions or progressions. It's just not enough! Much less is sufficient with the demands of the proposals presented here today. How can the Left Block continue again and again demanding changes when, over four years, it has approved all the articles of all the budgets that have been in force in this legislature? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u98	Given the time available to respond, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will not remind the honourable Member that in 2018 the PSD bench said that defrosting careers was a corporate attitude among teachers of higher education. I'm glad you're following the defrosting of careers now, that's a step forward. But I miss the PSD's position in this debate. The honourable Member was not here, it is true, and perhaps that is why she did not attend this Commission, but less than a year ago, we had here in the Assembly of the Republic, in the Committee on Education and Science, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, and the PSD was in favour of harmonising these two evaluation systems, particularly when the unions also came here to say this. I therefore find it strange that the PSD position, which now says that the resolution of the problem we are presenting here, is insufficient. This is a contradiction of the PSD, not a contradiction of the Left Block. I understand that the weight that the rectors have is too big for the PSD to vote in favour, we understand that, but do not put that weight on this bench, because this bench does not have the weight of the rectors. On the other hand, if you want to discuss the reason why the State Budget of 2019 does not have the money for career progression, ask why you are. Rectors sent highly wrong numbers about the money they needed for the progressions. What the CRUP did and what the rectors did was send a number well below their objective needs for these teachers to progress,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u100	You're not answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u101	...because, in fact, what the CRUP and the Rectors want to do is not guarantee the progressions to these teachers. The principals are sending the information to the government badly and the government is grateful! In fact, if the PSD were against the captivating, it was against sending this information from the rectors, because this is a true present to Mário Centeno, who doesn't need to be captivating, it's only thanks to the rectors. You don't need to captivate, you just thank me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u102	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u103	If the PSD wants to solve today, it approves the Block Bill, as we said we are highly available to approve the PSD resolution project, that, yes, between us here, harmless,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u104	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u105	... because it puts in the hands of the government the resolution of a problem in which, for a year and a half, it has not strictly done anything. I know that Mrs. Deputy wasn't here, but I invite her to open the ARTV website...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u106	Mr President, you have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u107	...to see the auditions we had. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u108	To present the legislative initiatives of the CDS, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings to the debate a set of initiatives related to access and frequency of higher education. The CDS accompanies this schedule with a recommendation to the Government to capture more Lusodescendants and Portuguese migrant students. This is because the current government's roadshow — the name used by the government — is a valid marketing instrument, does not solve issues that are often the real limitation to access these potential candidates, such as obtaining equivalences, knowing whether they should carry out tests — which and when — or simply where they should address themselves to have clear and decisive information. In the current international context, the CDS also believes that particular attention should be given to Venezuela's descendants in access to public higher education, since Portugal has an increased responsibility for these. Moreover, we have a good tradition in this area with the Global Platform for Support for Syrian Students, whose first two doctors, by Coimbra and by Minho, completed the tests in January this year. in another area, the PSD proposes measures to encourage the frequency of the institutions of the interior, at the time when the Working Group, appointed by Minister Manuel Heitor, concluded that the cut of 1000 vacancies on the coast, stubbornly applied, was not, after all, the appropriate solution. The CDS warned Mr Minister: the distribution of vacancies must be preceded by the analysis of courses that remain empty and by the existence of concentrated offers in certain geographical areas, rather than blindly conditioning the choices of students. What is worth it is that, as in other files, such as the end of the tips, the Manuel Heitor.2019 version will replace the Manuel Heitor.2018 version, expecting this bug to be fixed in good time. But this PSD marking, when there is little time for the scheduling of legislative initiatives, became the ideal ride for the parties supporting the government to mark positions, demarcation of the Socialist Party. Example of this, as seen here, are the projects on the framework law of school social action and on the financing of higher education, the PCP. Knowing in advance that this is not the time and that there will be no majority for approval, the CFP also knows that this is a vital opportunity to be able to claim, with its electorate, the left-wing credentials, which have not yet completely diluted by voting four years alongside the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u110	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u111	The draft laws of the PCP and the Block are also joined to amend the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, on democratic management of institutions and at the end of the foundational regime, on a resumption of the discussion we had at the plenary session of 20 April 2017 two years ago. On the foundational regime, I underline the conclusions, however known, of the evaluation of the Higher Education Coordinator Council, in the context of the OECD study. First, the Government did not allocate the agreed funding to the foundations, although the universities have fulfilled their share. Second, universities timidly explored the possibilities of creating their own careers and incentives for teachers and researchers. Third, the universities still consider that the option was very advantageous. Fourthly, the unions do not consider the option to be advantageous, for fear of'privatisation' of labour schemes, which has not occurred in any institution. These conclusions I have cited point out in order to relaunch the foundational model, correcting its possible failures. Moreover, the Universities of Porto, Aveiro, Miinho, Nova, and ISCTE never asked for the reversal of the model, well before they asked for their full compliance. In the CDS, we are available to reopen the RJIES file, but we consider it wrong to make any minor changes, such as the Bloc and PCP proposals, without a formal and reasoned prior assessment that includes a weighting of what needs to be changed or of what simply needs to be regulated. Therefore, today, we present the Resolution Project No 2054 / XIII / 4. a, recommending that the Government, after more than 10 years, apply Article 185. that of the RJIES, precisely that which stipulates its own evaluation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a word for the projects under discussion on the remuneration of higher education teachers, which understandably mobilize many of the people present here today in the galleries. We recognize that there is a problem, given the inconsistencies between the provisions of the 2018 State Budget, which refers to the General Law of Work in Public Functions, and that which is provided for in the Staff Regulations of Teacher Careers. This is a problem created by the government which has so far come out of any clarification or solution. In view of this, the vast majority of the institutions, within their autonomy, have applied the rules contained in their internal regulations and many teachers have already obtained the right gainful progression. However, injustice persists, adding to other limitations of career progression that the current statutes allow, but it does not seem to us that the proposals under discussion are the right and complete instrument, since they would lead Parliament to make the table of autonomy of the institutions, imposing a budgetary burden of dubious legal possibility. It is up to the Government to clarify, once and for all, what needs to be done, even if it has to recognise a legislative error. It is up to the government to discuss career statutes in order to solve the many limiting situations. And it is up to the CDS, in exercising its powers, to demand the same response from the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u114	To request clarification, Mrs Odete João, of the PS, wrote. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the recommendation to the Government that the CDS bring today the debate, on the creation of incentives to attract luso-descendants and migrants to Portuguese higher education institutions, shows total ignorance of the reality, of the measures being implemented and of the results being achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u117	I really believe you are. Members of the CDS were not at the last hearing in committee of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where this situation was detailed. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u118	They were distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u119	Otherwise, within the framework of the Education and Research Initiative in Portugal, promoted by the Government in cooperation with higher education institutions, a set of outreach actions have been developed in several countries with Portuguese communities. As a result of this strategy, the number of students placed, through the special quota, is growing sustainably — increased by 40% since the beginning of this Legislation. And, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, not only are these outreach sessions, the digital platform contains information, consulates, embassies, social networks, the Directorate-General itself, all this contributes to informing well all those who want to come to study for Portugal. The PS is gradually recovering the void left by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u121	We therefore miss the sudden concern of the CDS in this area, because when it was government, the number of students placed by this special quota was half the current one. In 2013 it was a third of the current. At the time, the CDS did nothing to increase the number of Lusodescendants or migrants. They now identify this need—lately we know—but they do not cease to be welcome to this cause that is of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u122	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the system of access to higher education by descendants or emigrants is already very simplified, since the possibility of candidates having a special quota, students also do not need to take the national examinations of access to higher education, are replaced by equivalent examinations of the country of origin. So, Mrs. Member, I don't know where the doubt is! Is that what you're talking about? The proof of this simplification is that the number of candidates practically matches the number of students placed. The PS will continue to work to increase the number of students in higher education by fulfilling the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 78 / 2016. But we can't forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the former government that forced thousands of young people to emigrate with the justification that they had to leave their comfort zone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u124	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u125	An adrabice? Oh, my God! Is it forgotten? Oh, my God! Are you out of memory? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u126	It was this same right-wing government, unable to create conditions to create jobs, which forced entire families to leave the country to seek better living conditions. Therefore, the recommendation of the CDS to attract candidates for higher education in Portugal in view of the current legislation and the ongoing strategy of the Socialist Government is at least redundant, nothing adds to the ongoing public policies of the Socialist Government. On the follow-up of immigrants and Luso-descendants from Venezuela who want to enter higher education or request recognition of the academic degrees obtained in Venezuela, the governmental areas of foreign affairs and higher education—it is good to say — they have implemented cooperation measures. The necessary efforts are being made to ensure that the automatic recognition of academic degrees obtained in Venezuela can be considered by the Commission for the Recognition of Degrees and Foreign Diplomas. We recognize the dramatic situation in Venezuela, but the existence of a specific programme in view of all the measures already taken by the current government does not make sense unless the objective aims at other purposes, perhaps the purposes of the listhead to the European elections by the CDS, and I quote: "We need people but not anyone". Question : Is that the intention? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u127	You are signing up, to request clarifications, a little late, we agree, Mrs. Angela Moreira, of the CFP. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, attending higher education for most students and families is an act of courage for the monthly expenses added to the family budget they are facing. And this to achieve a right which is guaranteed to them in the Constitution of the Republic and which is the responsibility of the State. A right that is guaranteed only with a school social action that works as a foundation for the student, who responds to the needs of the student who wants to attend higher education, regardless of their socio-economic situation. It is in this context that the CFP presents another bill, which aims to establish the guiding principles of school social action in higher education, defining the specific support to students. We know that this worrying reality is not inevitable. It stems from political options and its correction requires concrete and concrete political responses and measures. This reality requires that: if the PS is available to monitor the CFP in its proposals, which are intended to ensure the strengthening and expansion of the social action in higher education; if the PS is available to accompany the CFP and ensure the extension of the mechanism of direct and indirect social action, ensuring coverage for all students who need it; if the available PS is to follow the CFP and introduce fair criteria for awarding grants, in particular by extending the allocation of the maximum grant, considering the real economic conditions of families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u129	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u130	Mr President, replying to the question which, indeed, seems to me to have been addressed by Mrs Odete João, I must say that I have immense esteem for you and that I do not want to be unpleasant, but I think the numbers speak for you. You're right, there's a special contingent that has 3,500 vacancies and, if you want to be more graphic, you've got to fill out these 3,500, 3200.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u131	Ah! Great success!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u132	I would say that this is not really a great success. I would say that there is no growth boom here that this government has pushed in some way. So, I think very well that the government is delighted to make a roadshow for Europe, for South Africa...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u133	Take the family, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u134	I think I'm very good at doing it, like I said in my speech. I think it's a good marketing tool, as I told you, and I think the Study & Research in Portugal initiative has an extraordinarily well achieved website from a graphical point of view and I just had to gain in clear information for those who really want to apply and have no idea how to do it. Anyone who is browsing the site—as I was, moreover, because of complaints I have received—will not find a single information, no telephone number, no e-mail address—an e-mail would be good for those who in the 21st century live outside—to know how doubts about the application can be resolved. Madam Member, I also think that the PS of ancient times had the good tradition of welcoming, in higher education and in our country, those who would need it, as I also noted with the support platform for Syrian refugee students. I do not understand why it is now so uncomfortable for the honourable Member that we assume this responsibility with regard to luso-descendants, see, luso-descendants in a country that is experiencing a violent crisis—I do not know whether it has been accompanied — from a humanitarian point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u135	We do not politically exploit the Venezuelan crisis!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u136	Even more: Mr Foreign Minister was more cautious than the honourable Member, because in the committee he referred to, he said that it was important to consider this specific situation. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u137	It's true! You have to talk to your minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u138	But see that it also did not give us the understanding that there were so many concrete measures. Moreover, I was quite curious about what measures are being put into practice in the coming year, but surely the PS will be pleased to inform us about these. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u139	Mr André Silva has the floor to present the NAP initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most of the leaders of higher education institutions have expressed their doubts about the remuneration progression criteria applicable to teachers of those institutions. This is because, while the General Law on Public Works states that there is a mandatory change to the remuneration position immediately following that in which the worker is, when that one has accumulated 10 points in performance assessments, the Statutes of the University Teacher Career and of the College of Political Higher Education Staff determine that this change is mandatory only when a teacher has obtained the mention «Excellent» for a period of six consecutive years. There are doubts as to whether these rules apply together or not, the vast majority of the directors of the institutions have changed the remuneration position only in the cases provided for in the Statute, a situation with which we do not agree and we intend to resolve it with the project that the NAP brings to debate today. For the NAP, the mandatory change in the remuneration position occurs where the teacher has obtained 10 points in the performance assessment process during the period that remained in the same pay index or when he obtains the term ‘Excellent’ for a period of six consecutive years, irrespective of the category or rate of pay. The General Law on Public Works, on this matter, determines that it will only not apply to higher education institutions if there is a special law to the contrary, which, in this case, does not happen. We also believe that the provisions on the remuneration progression provided for in the Statute should be interpreted as awarding the most qualified teachers and not penalizing the generality of teachers or not recognizing them with a minimum standard which ensured the other public workers the right to progress when they reached 10 points in successive evaluations. The restrictive and penalizing interpretation of the legislation, carried out by higher education institutions, promotes negative discrimination against these teachers vis-à-vis all other public officials and has caused situations of unequal treatment among teachers themselves, placing teachers against teachers. As a result, the approval of the NAP project, which we are discussing today, is essential to end this injustice and to dignify the teaching career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u141	In addition to the presentations of initiatives that have already taken place, Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u142	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of my bench about some of the proposals that we have not yet had the opportunity to mention, because they obviously deserve our attention. But before I wanted to start with a theme that was mentioned here by both the PSD and the Left Block : the issue of mandatory changes in the remuneration position, more precisely the budgetary appropriations for it. Mrs. Members, the fact that this appropriation is not in the budget programme for higher education and science does not mean that it is not in the budget. As explained here at the time, these appropriations are in the budget and programme of the Ministry of Finance. This is how it was possible in 2018 for the institutions to have received EUR 7, EUR 4 million and to be in ceiling in 2019 in the budget for these institutions plus EUR 18, EUR 5. So you have to do the housework. We know that it makes a lot of work to read the State Budget, but we need to go to places where the headings are, so that they do not come here to invent that what is actually missing is there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u143	We have already discussed the issue of RJIES, in particular the proposal of the CFP. Of course, the CFP has always been well-structured proposals with which we can agree or not, but which fully express its views on matters, but here I would like to add a point on this issue that has to do with the CDS proposal to evaluate the application of the RJIES. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already voted in favour of completing the evaluation of the RJIES, but the law of the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions is a law of the Assembly of the Republic and, therefore, we cannot just turn to the government and say: « Review! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Moreover, the Government has already done its work: the OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) has been requested by the Government and is a contribution to this assessment. The Higher Education Coordinator Council has also made a specific assessment on the functioning of public private law foundations. They are contributions to this assessment. Now, the fact that the House approves a law which establishes that this law has to be evaluated cannot be a step-by-step to tell someone who evaluates it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u144	So who signed it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u145	We said there: « Let it be evaluated». For example, we can ask the National Education Council to help us make this assessment, which we cannot be guilty of!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u146	But what do you blame? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u147	Still on the issue of higher education remuneration, there are various proposals here, but there is one point on which we could not fail to say the following: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot agree in any way with proposals to apply to higher education teachers the model of performance assessment of general public administration careers. We cannot regulate essential aspects of the teaching career of higher education with the General Law of Labour in Public Functions, making this general law go ahead with the statutes of careers. That doesn't make sense, that's destabilizing, that's devaluation! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] this time, I am not answering you, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, despite having asked you questions about the position of the PS. We are making a collaborative parliamentary exchange here! We believe that higher education teachers do not want a performance assessment based basically on the passage of service time. What we want is that the budget appropriations which have been entered on time in the Budget, so that these advances are paid, are actually used carefully. We know that, initially, some institutions had not made the evaluation in time and time and that this delayed the process. We also spoke about it, saying: “The evaluation must be done! What we cannot do is benefit those who do not, to the detriment of those who do. Therefore, this should be clarified. I would also very briefly like to leave a word here on the PSD initiative entitled « Interpretational provision on propina ». The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been making an evolution in this area. Last February, we made it possible — partly by abstention, partly with some favourable votes — a draft resolution of the Left Block on fees and emoluments, which meant an evolution in our position as a bench. Now we are also prepared to take the same position on the PSD proposal. It is not our proposal, it is not in those terms that we have been discussing this matter, but it seems to us that, with the various contributions that have been made, perhaps in the field of expertise, we can get somewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u148	It's sensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u149	In conclusion, it is obvious that we will not favour proposals that say that what is already done must be done. We have already talked about the question of the Lusodescendants and the question of the interior and it seems to us that what the PSD proposes is what it is already doing. With regard to the legal evaluation regime, we also believe, as they say in the explanatory statement, that it is to do what is already being done and with good results. So that's why we don't line up. This is our contribution to this debate. Thank you very much, ladies. Members and Members of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u150	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, contrary to what has been said here, the action of the Government has been marked, in the areas of higher education and science, by the lack of strategy and the inability to mobilize and motivate the sector. The apathy caused in higher education is only overcome by widespread disarray in science, transversal to students, leaders, teachers and researchers. in these areas, there is no one who defends the action of this government, Mr. on our part, we have always stated that the budgets of recent years were lost opportunities and today we can reaffirm what is obvious: there is no future in the policies developed and that this is indeed a lost legislation. This was the illusory way of government and the irresponsibility of the parties that support it, in a total absence of strategy and accumulating tensions and disappointments. Today, it is increasingly clear that the strategy of this government is mere propaganda. The proof of this is not to make any commitment to the number of beds available at the beginning of the next school year. The failure of the Government in this area, a government that does not provide funding to the institutions for construction, nor does it provide funds in the context of social action to hire housing in critical situations. And it should be recalled, in this regard, that the left-wing parliament has led to the PSD proposal which provided for the increase in support of housing for displaced scholarship students.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u152	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u153	So I ask you, Mr Commissioner, how many beds will be available for the accommodation of higher education students in September at the time of the start of the school year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u154	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u155	Mr President, Mrs Rocha, I will reply very quickly to you, but I will not tell you how many beds we are going to have, because we have no responsibility to say things that we can only know when we get there. But we are doing something that the PSD has never done, which was betting on student accommodation, just like, in fact, we are betting on housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You just remember to criticize when the PS government does! It was good if you'd remembered before, because we'd be further there, and we'd have done more. Come here, on this side, to support what we are doing, instead of buying with what we have not done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u156	We're not from the same family!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u157	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak. [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Marques is not answering the call. You therefore have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Sá Carneiro said one day: "To restore the dignity indispensable to all, it is urgent to rebalance the Portuguese space, promoting regional development as the assumption and condition of national development itself." After 40 years, it is necessary to recognize the present state of this claim and assume that regional asymmetries have increased. Today, there is less purchasing power in low-density territories compared to the national average, and these territories are more impoverished, older, less young, less future. With this government, everything worsened in the low density territories in the Alentejo, in the Beiras, or in the Tres-os-Montes. It is said by the people who live there, because they see nothing different, and they say the statistics. Vila Velha de Rhodão, a socialist council of the interior, has today less than 3300 inhabitants and almost 800 elderly for every 100 young people. Penamacor or Idanha-a-Nova, also socialist municipalities, have: the first, for every 100 young people, about 650 elderly and the second near 500. There and in vast areas of the country, per capita income is only half the national average. There is no economic vitality there and until the future seems to have migrated or gone to work abroad, as has happened to people. It is not seen there, of the government or of the parties that support it, any concern with those people. The PSD does not comply and our initiatives are proof. Really putting hands to work will only be able to do so when the Portuguese want the PSD to rule the country again. However, we can and should show that, with us, everything will be different in promoting an effective territorial cohesion, in the conviction that Portugal will be, in its entirety, benefiting from the reduction of asymmetries. When it promises more justice and equality to territories, the PSD does not talk about things that no one sees. Inside, the king goes naked, but it's because they rule the left. On the other hand, when they rule the left, the king always gets naked and puts the blame on others. The PSD wants to promote greater use of the installed capacity of higher education in the interior, encourage the sharing of knowledge among the regions, support the balanced development of the entire national territory, and has proposals. The PSD wants to promote equality of opportunity and higher education, promote the establishment of population in the most impoverished areas. Because it is the party to national cohesion, the PSD wants to strengthen it with concrete measures, and that is why we presented the incentive regime for low-density higher education. And who's in charge, Miss. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have anything to see or just the usual trusted conversation?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u159	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In politics, as in economy, we have to make choices and choose the right instruments to achieve the objectives. of the great set of proposals that we are discussing today and that we are going to vote, I will only speak in two. I begin with the first proposal from the CFP, the only one I will vote in favour, which has to do with the framework law of school social action. In fact, the best tool to promote equal access, frequency and success in higher education is school social action. Therefore, reducing the tips universally, as was done in this State Budget, is not a good instrument. When there are scarce resources, we need to reduce and guide our options to those that have the greatest impact. Without prejudice to the fact that, if it is approved in the specialty, it will be improved, that is a correct instrument and will have my support. On the three projects relating to changes in the remuneration position of teachers in higher education, they focus on a problem that exists, which is a differentiated treatment of changes in the pay position of teachers in higher education, but their form of attack is incorrect. Maybe just me, here, I'm worried about the norm-rail, [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] ... but all these projects end with implementation the day after its promulgation. We cannot approve in the State budget a limit for remuneration valuations and then be during the year approving bills that have profound budgetary impacts. In conclusion, I would say that we actually have a problem, which is that of each faculty using completely different criteria. But this derives from laws, in particular from the Staff Regulations of Teachers of Higher Education and Polytechnics, which allow it to be so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u161	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Marques, who is already present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u162	Mr President, I apologize in advance for my absence recently. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PSD initiative aims to clarify a number of abuses that have been committed by some institutions, but above all to respond to what the government has not been able to resolve over four years. I must remind you here that soon in the 2016 State Budget, and also in 2017, the Government has undertaken to clarify the issue of fees and emoluments. As usual, this government announced a study, announced a reform and then did nothing. He asked the institutions, the Directorate-General for Higher Education and, at the end of four years, nothing is done. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] What the PSD is doing with this initiative is proposing a clarification of the frequency costs of higher education, which are, or are not, accounted for when a tip is paid. It is that if a student pays a tip, there is a set of documents, a set of exercises that the State cannot charge the student again. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] It doesn't make sense for a student to have to pay for a student's card, nor does it make sense for a student to have to pay for a diploma or a certificate of qualifications, because he has already paid a tip. So there are a set of initiatives, decisions, actions that should be included in the tip and there are others that make no sense that they are. There must be some freedom on the part of the institutions to charge or to charge. What cannot continue to happen is that the Government wants to clear its hands on a matter which is within its competence and which, for four years, has never resolved. It is therefore important to clarify what is the autonomy and competence of the institutions and what is fair to the student. When we go to a hospital and pay a moderate fee, then we're not paying for more exams or more decisions that doctors make. The payment of the tip includes a set of rights which students have and which cannot be changed by the institutions. The government didn't want to solve, it didn't want to make choices and always wanted to hide. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u163	The honourable Member has not read the PSD proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u164	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today focuses on higher education. This is one of the issues that has attracted the most international attention, which it does not admire, because many of the problems we are currently facing are gigantic and the associated little known risks. Numerous professional, trade union and political academic organizations promote discussions on the role and usefulness of higher education, how it should be organized and how it should be financed. The multiplicity of solutions and the speed of change is enormous and many ideas that seemed solid are being questioned again. When the PS formed government, the challenges were immense; many felt that the change was urgent. We were leaving a difficult time, when it was necessary to regain confidence in our ability to draw closer to Europe and the world. Near the end of this legislature, all the indicators suggest that we are clearly on the right track. That there is still much to do for no one to doubt, that the system still has weaknesses is obvious, because three and a half years is a very short period in the academy. Even looking at the extraordinary last 30 years, we know that we are still far from the desired goals. The draft laws and resolutions under discussion do not bring great surprises, but may have significant impacts. In this area too, Portugal is no exception. Several organizations, such as the COR (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities) and the CCISP (Coordinator Council of Higher Political Institutes), are promoting conventions, and many other organisations — faculties, trade unions, universities and politicians — are conducting debates on many of these issues. In the PS, we find it important that the results of these discussions can guide the necessary strategies in the medium and long term. There are many who continue to believe that the main objectives of higher education are three: training competent professionals, advancing knowledge borders and developing individual, social and environmental responsibility. But today, what the academic degree promises, but does not guarantee, is the ability to think and solve problems, to be able to dialogue with professionals from other domains and to start again if necessary. Higher education institutions are committed to achieving these objectives, but they sail in partly unknown seas, which makes it even more important, to achieve them, that the necessary investments — and always limited — are based on deep and robust reflection. This reflection takes time and it is essential for us to move forward with greater security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u166	You have the floor, too, for one speech, Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I reaffirm what my colleague Margarida Mano has just said: the Democratic Social Party here presents a number of proposals to make a clear contribution to territorial cohesion, I would say to territorial cohesion and human cohesion. We have a clear vision, which points out that Portugal is not limited to those who are here. Portugal is made up of those who are here and those who are scattered a little around the world. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u168	That's why they advised them to emigrate! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u169	from that we have presented, among the projects that are currently under discussion, a draft resolution that recommends the improvement of the current model of quota of children of emigrants members of the Portuguese communities at entry into higher education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u170	We need to consider whether the model we have is satisfactory or not. This does not close criticism to anyone, it is only the clear statement that there is, in fact, something to change. We are not satisfied when we find that, of the 3500 possible vacancies, there are more than 3200 that are not filled by these potential candidates belonging to the Portuguese communities. from there we recommend that the Government develop a model that already sets out, in order to disseminate these possibilities; that points out that certain incentives can be found, for example, through the relocation of candidates; and, of course, that points to the simplification of the conditions of access to higher education. It is clear that today we clearly realize that nothing needs to be changed for the Socialist Party. Mrs Odete João was very clear and Mr Porfirio Silva made clear his discomfort with the possibility of the opposition to present alternatives here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u171	Does that sound like you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u172	The Socialist Party is very bad with the contradiction, very bad. It has always been so and so continue the gentlemen, showing an isolationist stance of those who think everything can and knows. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party is satisfied with a model that makes more than 3200 vacancies of the 3,500 possible for children of migrants not to be occupied. The Socialist Party is satisfied, saying that the children of migrants and Portuguese communities are now clarified through the consular network. And I suggest, Mrs. Odete João, that you explain this to our communities, that they will give you the necessary answer. [[PSD applause.]] That is why the Social Democratic Party makes a contribution here on behalf of this vision that we have, which is an extended and inclusive vision, which it considers all Portuguese alike, regardless of whether they live in Portugal or are spread around the world. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u173	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD highlighted a constructive debate on the theme « To take higher education further with merit, autonomy and responsibility ». To this end, he presented three bills and a draft resolution, which aim to solve serious problems for students, institutions and their regions. To take higher education further means that higher education policies are the "wheel axis" in regions which are depressed demographically, where the issues of low population density are currently obstacles to development. And in this sense, both universities and politicians can be a lever to resolve, in a common way, these inequalities that have not been overcome until today. Cohesion between regions has failed! The Government of the Republic has failed sharply! We have an unequal Portugal. There continues to be, in conjunction, one Portugal with more opportunities and one Portugal in decline. A country where citizens of weaker economic regions are required to pay transport passes from the richest region, which is Lisbon, is an unequal country! Concentrating decades-old resources in Lisbon, but still planning the next years programming 80 % of the investment for capital is not fair, it is not socialist; this is to be irresponsible and conviving with irreparable delays. Taking care of the inside is something else. It is to value higher education, for example, by creating a system of incentive to higher education in those territories where the government has led to insecurity and forgetfulness. It is to create an incentive scheme for Portuguese or Portuguese emigrant students to attend Portuguese public higher education, valuing Portuguese language, strengthening our network and exporting knowledge. It is to encourage the frequency of higher education in the institutions located in the interior, through the creation of dual qualification courses with higher demand institutions. It is to recover convincingly the + Superior Program and the creation of an Erasmus + Interior as rural policies in the development of less-favoured territories. It is to have the merit of autonomy and responsibility, central values in public policies of higher education, which presupposes clarity of principles, appreciation of merit and a strengthening of the quality, autonomy and responsibility of institutions. in this context, we try to eliminate the incomprehensible disparities in rates and emoluments practiced in higher education, regulating rates and emoluments in public education, as well as the autonomy of institutions. Acts have been charged for a long time, which objectively should not be charged, and should be incorporated into the tip as the provision of the educational service. Keeping unregulated rates and emoluments, with exaggerated values, harms students, especially those who are outside social action. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the action of the Government has been marked, in the areas of higher education and science, by a prospective incapacity, weak mobilization and motivation of the sector. The apathy caused by inaction in higher education is overcome only by widespread disarray in science. It is necessary to save, as long as there is time, the values that can be transformers for the country. Our young people, their training and the creation of opportunities throughout the national territory must be the strategic path for a more coherent and developed Portugal. As Francisco Sá Carneiro said, «to restore the dignity indispensable to all it is urgent to rebalance the Portuguese space, promoting regional development as the assumption and condition of national development itself». [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on the agenda. The second point was only scheduled at the Leaders' Conference because the PSD excluded the royalty of having a power agenda. I would therefore like to thank this gesture, on behalf of all the parliamentary groups, which is an unrepeatable gesture. We then move on to the general discussion of the Bill No 187 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves contingency measures to be applied in the event of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement. To open the debate, you have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is presenting to the Assembly of the Republic a diploma which ultimately seeks to resolve the situations of British citizens living in Portugal and which also seeks to safeguard the position of our citizens in the United Kingdom in the event of the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement. in this sense, the diploma refers precisely to the safeguarding of the right of residence and the recognition of the full length of its duration in Portugal, as well as seeking to resolve, in addition to the question of the residence of the British, that of their family members who are third-country citizens, as well as to recognize the exercise of professional activities, the right to the status of a student of European citizen and the right of access to health provided by the establishments of our National Health Service. What we are looking for is that, in the context of the contingency plan prepared by the Portuguese Government, both the rights of British citizens living in Portugal and the rights of Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom, by precisely the principle of equivalence expressed here in the diploma, can be safeguarded. With regard to this proposal, I must point out that in the case of the citizens of the United Kingdom who do not present a list to the European Parliament by 12 April, of course, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity of electoral rights, we will also have to suspend the inclusion of British citizens in our electoral census. This is the proposal submitted by the Government to Parliament, hoping that they will understand the need to safeguard these rights if there is no exit agreement from the United Kingdom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u177	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u178	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we are 54 hours from the end of the Brexit deadline, which will be on 29, at 23 hours, and it is amazing that, at 54 hours we are now having the discussion—and it is true that it was with the announcement of all parliamentary groups, because otherwise it would not have happened—in general, in the specialty and global end, of a diploma that has a huge impact on the lives of British residents in Portugal — that is, of course, concerns us — but it has a far greater impact on the lives of the 400 000 Portuguese who reside in the United Kingdom and are waiting for this diploma to be approved so that equivalent conditions can be applied to them, even if it is not reciprocity, because the diploma does not talk about reciprocity — I think that the Secretary of State has made a mistake when she spoke about reciprocity — but, at least, to have an equivalent treatment. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question, which is the only question the Government has to answer at the moment: why did the government delay bringing this diploma here? Why did the government leave almost 400 000 Portuguese without knowing what their future life would be like today? Why did the Portuguese Government fail to trust those same Portuguese people? Madam Secretary of State, a resolution of the European Council of 23 March 2018 — 2018, one year ago! — said that the Member States should do everything in their power to avoid the consequences of leaving the United Kingdom but that they should prepare themselves for the same consequences. The fact is that the Portuguese Government has spent a lot of time, but even a lot of time saying that everything was okay, it has spent a lot of time saying that we were 00 meters from the end, it has spent a lot of time saying that 95 % of the problems were already solved, and that makes it difficult for the Portuguese people in the United Kingdom to live because they trusted the word of the government. And now the Secretary of State is coming here to ask that we quickly pass a diploma of this importance and with this importance in the lives of the Portuguese people. In fact, the government's initial diploma was wrong. I had, for example, the mistakes of not including political rights, not to say whether the suspension was total or partial, had a set of errors which Parliament had tried to correct. The question I am asking you, Madam Secretary of State, is the following: why did the Government take more than one year to present this diploma, making this legislative process in a very wrong way, but very fast and, in this sense, boosting a set of errors, and did not present it more quickly? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u179	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u180	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, quoted a decision of the European Council of 23 March 2018, but I remind you that until December of this year the European Union itself tried to make the contingency plan, and it was from December last year that we started our contingency plans in all Member States. Therefore, what the Portuguese Government has done was not to rush into this matter and to wait, together with the other Member States, for its contingency plan. I must tell you, Mr President, that the question of political rights was neither a mistake nor a forgetfulness on the part of the Portuguese Government. You have forgotten that there is legislation in this area that regulates electoral political rights and therefore I have called attention to the principle of reciprocity in the matter of elections, not because the principle of equivalence can be applied, but rather the principle of reciprocity. It was no mistake, sir. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u182	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Gonçalves has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill we are discussing here today, which approves contingency measures to be applied in the event of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement, is an initiative that we consider important. However, the decision of the United Kingdom, adopted in the referendum of June 2016, already nearly three years ago, justified that the contingency plan initiatives in the various areas had been submitted in a timely manner to allow adequate preparation to respond to an exceptionally exceptional situation. This bill, which seeks to safeguard the rights of British citizens residing in Portugal, assumes a very important assumption of treatment equivalent to the significant Portuguese community resident in the United Kingdom. It should be borne in mind that the rights of British citizens to reside in Portugal and the rights, I would say even the future, of a Portuguese community that lives in British territory and is estimated at about 400,000 citizens. Due to the importance of this matter, the Government should have taken care to present this proposal in due course so as to allow, in time, the discussion of this diploma in the Assembly of the Republic. Regardless of the rights provided for in the proposed law, it should be recalled that Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom must register to obtain the compulsory residence permit following the Brexit decision. Thus, the administrative support provided by consular services in the United Kingdom has an essential role in this whole process since Portuguese residents there need documentation in order to justify their rights with the British administration. Unfortunately, and despite being aware of the government the planned date for Brexit on Friday, appropriate measures have not been taken to enable consular services to be able to respond to the spectacular demand in the face of a situation which I have already mentioned is exceptional. Our community continues to have a huge difficulty in achieving a simple marking for the scheduling in consular posts and, when it does, the waiting time to be attended is, on average, more than three months. Yesterday in the Committee on European Affairs, the Government finally recognized this situation and recognized its seriousness by promising again and this time only 48 hours from the date scheduled for Brexit, which will now strengthen the consular network in the United Kingdom. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Apart from the question of citizens' rights, the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union can also make a huge impact on our economy, our agriculture, our tourism and even our foreign policy. However, there is still no official study to allow us to make a correct assessment of the impact of Brexit on Portugal and the Portuguese. We were expecting more, we were expecting much more from the Government of Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u184	Mr Vitalino Canas, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The proposal for a law on contingency measures—and not preparation, which they already see a lot behind—, as well as the replacement text prepared with a significant consensus in the Committee on European Affairs have as their main addressees British citizens living in Portugal and their relatives when they are not British nationals and are not nationals of other Member States of the European Union. But this legislative process, with these as main recipients, also aims to contribute to the care of the interests of other people not directly addressed here: Portuguese citizens living in the United Kingdom. With this diploma, we certainly want to send a strong message to the citizens of the United Kingdom living in Portugal, or family members—we have heard an estimate of 60 thousand. We want them to remain, as they are, well integrated and to maintain, without disturbance, their living conditions, to say about residence, to address health issues, social issues, educational issues, car traffic and professional activity, even if at some point an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union is to be found without agreement. For this reason, we are now legislating, without making it dependent — I stress — on the entry into force of the rules which we shall adopt on any suspensive condition. We will not, in particular, wait until we see what the United Kingdom itself will do about the Portuguese citizens living there. But the latter are also in our line of concerns, and it is also in them that we think when we legislate, approving these contingency rules. Because we hope to create favourable and encouraging conditions for the British authorities to treat our compatriots and families living in the United Kingdom estimated in a few hundred thousand. We have every reason to think so, because this guarantee has been given by the British authorities. If this does not happen, which is only put as a remote hypothesis, the diploma contains mechanisms that allow the government to cause its total or partial suspension. Mr President, in our life and politics too, it is not very common to devote significant time and effort, involving means and people, to produce something that we hope has no useful effect. We hope that this law will be one of the most useless laws of Portuguese democracy, either because it is possible to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom, or because Brexit itself does not happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u186	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u187	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we will discuss and vote on the Government's proposal for a contingency plan and, indeed, it is not the first time that we are talking about this plan in Parliament. Of course, we must not fail to mention that we are facing a rather abnormal legislative process and, indeed, yesterday we discussed and voted for a replacement text so that it would also be here today. Since the beginning, we have all learned that, given the outcome of the referendum, doubts would arise and here in Parliament many of us have often come to question how the Portuguese Government will deal with the situation. Not necessarily from a negotiating point of view with the United Kingdom, because this has never been placed on the table - this would be a task to be done between the European Union and the United Kingdom - but rather on a process that wanted more certainty than uncertainty and that has become a living wheel ; on the agreement and how it would be ; on whether the agreement would be accepted or not it would be accepted; now, on whether or not Brexit — today, in fact, there has already been the information that is being discussed, more seriously, on the possibility of a new referendum. Hence, from this point of view, politically, uncertainty remains. Regardless of these advances and setbacks, there was something that governments at national level could and should have done, which was to provide strong guarantees to their citizens on what to expect of this same process. And that, from our point of view, was the point where the government failed. The contingency plan, which we are going to vote on today, is the portrait of this delay, that leaves for the last hour, with the argument that we would have to see what would happen to know what we would propose. But several months ago it was more than foreseeable that the indecision would remain longer than that originally planned and we warned, on several occasions, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that these measures should be taken. More, in the Budget for 2019, we made a proposal, which was plunged, to ensure, of course, a reinforcement of consular personnel that is a key contact point for nearly half a million Portuguese and Portuguese in the United Kingdom. There is still a situation today — even yesterday we had the opportunity to check with the Minister for Foreign Affairs — that this will be a very serious problem. On the proposal of the replacement text we have for the vote today, several relevant amendments were made yesterday, some of which have already been outlined here, but it seems to us that the great importance of this plan lies with the question of reciprocity, which, in fact, did not remain as reciprocity, but as a principle of equal treatment. This has also been one of the major concerns raised by the Left Block with the Government since the beginning. We remember that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said several times in this Parliament that the rights of citizens were the high priority and that, even if everything went through the worst, Theresa May had the word about fulfilling this principle. At the time, we thought it was too naive to make it depend on such an important thing on the word of British Prime Minister. More recently, the Portuguese Government itself contradicted this in order to explain the importance of this contingency plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u188	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u189	In conclusion, Mr President, it is important that we now have a document that ensures the rights of Portuguese in the United Kingdom and it is important, above all, that the principle of equal treatment be absolutely clear, so that there can be security for Portuguese citizens. There is still a lack of — let us leave this call — of consular reinforcement, which is going to be very necessary. We'll keep fighting for him. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u190	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Contrary to others, who insist on continuing to do everything to avoid leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union and disregarding the legitimate and sovereign decision of the British people, the CFP, from the very first moment, understood that the decision, free and democratic, taken by the British people must be respected and complied with. We recognize that this is a complex process, but we also identify that it has continued in a large envelope with responsibilities both on the side of the European Union and on the side of the United Kingdom. On the one hand, the European Union has done everything to make this process difficult, with pressures and blackmails that are unacceptable, seeking, as I said, to make it difficult to make it an example and to ensure that others do not follow the example of the British people, do not hesitate to take a decision to leave the European Union. On the other hand, the British Government is more concerned with safeguarding the interests of its economic groups, in particular in which business opportunities with the single market are maintained. The concern about citizens' rights, people's rights, which should be the central concern in this debate and in this process, has been sidelined. The Portuguese Government, instead of being a hostage of the European Union, should have continued in this process two aspects which we consider absolutely essential and which we affirm from the very first moment: on the one hand, to defend the rights of the Portuguese community that resides and works in the United Kingdom ; on the other hand, to start bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom mutually advantageous and that indeed the interests of our country and our people were at the centre of national interests. That was not the option. In fact, the Government only initiates the process of preparing for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union when the European Union says that it is to do, when it could have begun this process long ago, to take the measures we are seeing today in practice. Moreover, in the various hearings we have held in the Committee on European Affairs, on the initiative of the CFP, either to various entities in various sectors, or to the members of the Government, what we have identified is that in fact there are a number of shortcomings in various services, either in consulates, or in the SEF ( Service for Foreigners and Borders ), which could and should have taken action in a timely manner, so that the services now have the ability to respond to the problem that is currently on the table and the outcome of which is still unknown. In any case, the CFP will follow the initiative under discussion today, because we consider, within the principle of reciprocity, not only the rights of the British citizens who are in our country, but also that it is important that there be a government intervention to ensure that the rights of the Portuguese citizens who reside and work in the United Kingdom are properly protected and safeguarded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u192	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by stressing the importance of the broad political convergence which has been verified here with regard to the adoption of this bill. I would like to remind you that this bill came to Parliament on 22 February, more than a month ago. It was possible to see that there was a broad convergence in what are the fundamental terms that guarantee British citizens in Portugal a set of social rights and also political rights that we consider to be of the greatest importance. The recognition of the civil rights and political rights of British citizens in Portugal has to do with the will already taken by the British authorities — particularly in the Policy Paper of 11 December 2018, which is worth being known and read carefully — to recognize also the rights of citizens of the European Union who reside, work and have their lives set up in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, this first statement by the British Government is the most important political guarantee so that from the moment the European Commission, in December, determined that Member States should move forward with the preparation plan and with the contingency plan, those same plans could be subsequently developed by each Member State. As you know, the Government has advanced with two resolutions of the Council of Ministers, one to protect citizens' rights and another to protect business rights, to accompany them, to inform them and to show the availability of State institutions to ensure that the United Kingdom continues to be one of the main destinations of Portuguese economic and business life and, at the same time, one of the main partners in the direct investment attraction to the Portuguese State. You know all the Members and all the Members. Members the content of each of these resolutions. I therefore congratulate all the parliamentary groups for the broad convergence which has been possible here in this proposal for a law which, by safeguarding the rights of British citizens in Portugal, also creates conditions for the rights of Portuguese citizens to be recognised by the United Kingdom under the treatment of equivalence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u194	You want to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u196	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the last item on today's agenda, which consists of votes. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 199 presences, to which 9 are added to the Bureau, of the Members. Carlos Peixato, Clara Marques Mendes and Margarida Mano, from PSD, João Castro, Jorge Lacão, Margarida Marques and Vitalino Canas, from PS, Joana Mortágua, from BE, and Assumption Cristas, from CDS-PP, performing 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 1172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — low-density higher education stimulus scheme. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We are going to vote, in general, on Bill No. 1173 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the legal regime for the evaluation of higher education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE and the PAN.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote of Bill No 1174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Interpretational provision on tip. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We proceeded to the vote on the request submitted by the PSD, asking the European Affairs Committee to be discharged without a 30-day vote of draft resolution No 2051 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Higher education for children of Portuguese immigrants. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 4. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 810 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the School Social Action Framework Law in Higher Education and defines specific support for students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 811 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Financing of public higher education. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1145 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 1179 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The general vote of Bill No 1143 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1177 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Change the legal regime of higher education institutions by strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and by extinguishing the foundational regime. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the procedure for assessing the application of the RJIES. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstains from BE, the PCP, the Greens and the Member of PS Ivan Gonçalves.]] This diploma goes down to 4. the Commission. We shall vote on the request submitted by the CDS-PP, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without a 30-day vote of draft resolution No 2055 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) - Recommends that the Government clarify procedures for attracting Luso-descendant and emigrant candidates to Portuguese higher education institutions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 1171 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Clarify the remuneration progression regime of higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u197	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u198	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u199	Mr President, it is in order to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on today's voting on various initiatives relating to higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u200	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u201	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u202	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u203	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Social Democratic Party will deliver a statement of vote on the votes of Bills Nos 1179 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1143 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1171 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u204	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. All right, get registered. We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on European Affairs on the Proposal for a Law No 187 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves contingency measures to be applied in the event of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement, which was withdrawn by the Government in favour of the replacement text. If there is no opposition, we shall vote together, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on a request by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in respect of the replacement text we have just voted unanimously. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We are almost at the end of the session, but Mr Pedro Alves will first take note of an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics refers to an application for the suspension of the mandate of Mr. Luís Moreira Testa ( PS ), a electoral circle of Portalegre, being replaced by Mr. Pedro Murcella, on 28 and 29 March 2019, 2 to 5 April 2019, 9 to 12 April 2019 and 15 April to 14 May 2019, all including. The opinion is in the sense of the request for a suspension and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u206	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-27.u207	I should like to make it clear that the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m., is called upon to the Government No 25 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — About health. I thank everyone for their cooperation and work. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 36 minutes.]]
