ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Before we move on to today's agenda, which will be filled with political statements, I respect the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and I ask Mr. Officials of the Authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will provide several information. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, wanted to take into account an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which was issued at this meeting today. « In accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, PSD Member Duarte Marques ( electoral circle of Santarém ) suspends the mandate, being replaced by Sonia Patrícia Silva Ferreira Quintino, for the period from 18 November 2019 to 6 December 2019, including. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it is found that the citizen indicated, Sonia Patrícia Silva Ferreira Quintino, is indeed the next candidate to take up the mandate, as presented in the list of votes in respect of the respective electoral circle. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. in this regard, the Commission intends to deliver the following opinion: the suspension of PSD Member Duarte Marques meets the legal requirements and is replaced by Sonia Patrícia Silva Ferreira Quintino, from 18 November 2019 until 6 December 2019, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mr. Secretary continues to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the following bills were entered in the Bureau: No 73 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Lobbying regulations, which fall to 1. the Commission ; point 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective bargaining by 16. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 75 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of the social protection of workers by shift and night( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 76 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates 35 hours as a normal period of work in the private sector( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; points 77 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation to carry out a monthly analysis of water intended for human consumption in order to verify the presence of glyphosate, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 78 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Visa for non-marketing herbicides with glyphosate for non-professional uses, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 79 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensuring the right to 25 days of annual vacation( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and No 80 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Disincentives the sale of food exceeding sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March 2009 which falls to 8. Draft Rules of Procedure No 4 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 extending the rights of the sole representatives of a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, which falls to 1. the Commission. The following draft resolutions were added to the Bureau: No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By the establishment of the solemn celebration of 25 November; paragraph 53 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government not introduce a system of incentives for the attendance of civil servants, which falls to 13. the Commission ; No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Termination of the procedure relating to the construction of the airport in Montijo and carrying out a strategic environmental assessment to measure the best options at airport level, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 55 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recruitment of more professionals for the National Health Service, according to the law for strengthening the autonomy of the institutions and the new Health Bases Act, which falls to 9. the Commission ; paragraph 56 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Publication of the portal for recognition of medical physics specialists; No 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need for the financing of the new hospital for Madeira ; No 58 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Action plan for water basin control, which falls to 11. the Commission ; No 59 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — By an integrated policy for childhood and family; paragraph 60 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all those who use EN225 ; paragraph 61 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of territorial cohesion in the districts of Santarém, Portalegre, Castelo Branco and Guarda, eliminating the tolls in A23, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; No 62 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of territorial cohesion in the districts of Viseu and Vila Real, eliminating the tolls in A24, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; point 63 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of territorial cohesion in the districts of Aveiro, Viseu and Guarda, eliminating the tolls in A25, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( L) — Granting of Honors of the National Pantheon to Aristides of Sousa Mendes, which falls to 12. the Commission ; No 65 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By abolishing tolls at A28 - Highway of the North Coast, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 66 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recruitment of more professionals for the national education service, with a particular impact on non-teaching staff, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 67 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government reorganise and strengthen the effectiveness of the security forces, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 68 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The abolition of tolls on the Via do Infante, which falls to 6. the Commission ; and finally paragraph 69 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Rehabilitation of the Fisheries House in the Quinta do Marquês, in Oeiras. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us now turn to the political statements. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Facilitation—this is the key word of this government's educational policy. As can be seen in any Portuguese-language dictionary, ease is to facilitate the execution of something that usually requires effort, commitment or discipline. In short, it's the opposite of demand.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u8	It is known that it is the government's will to eliminate retentions in basic education, to cover educational theories that devalue them, it is politically important to understand the reasons for this option and its true scope. It is that we are not faced with a purely pedagogical decision; on the contrary. This political decision no longer results from the conjugation of two things: firstly, saving money; secondly, achieving artificial numbers of excellence in school performance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u9	It is the government itself which quantifies saving of EUR 250 million per year to the end of the retentions, without taking into account the consequences of this decision. And with the end of reprobations the miracle of statistics of Portuguese educational success will certainly surprise the world. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in a perfect world all students learn everything and acquire the necessary knowledge, but unfortunately we do not live in a perfect world. Our students come from different family contexts, multiple social conditions and this systematic attempt on the left to treat equally what is not so reduces the possibilities of the most disadvantaged. [[PSD applause.]] When a student, because the school we have and your family have not given him the necessary conditions, he has not grasped, he does not know the subjects and he has passed by year, the State is not fulfilling its role of enhancing equal opportunities, he is robbing him of the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u11	This is what this is about the primacy of facilitation. To save and artificially improve statistics harm those who need the training that school gives to develop its potential and have a dignified life. This is not about making the 'lead' alpha and omega of the educational system; on the contrary, it is about, according to an evaluation that has multiple parameters, including the evaluation of acquired knowledge, allowing specific plans for each. How can someone who doesn't know how to spend the year? If you don't know why you didn't learn, you didn't have specific support, you didn't have a family to stimulate you to work, you didn't have a commitment. In the following year, if no action is taken, there will be even more difficulties and, in the end, it will go through again. Then comes the day when everything crumbles, where it is clear that the absence of knowledge is a discriminatory and harmful factor for its future. Let's get rid of hypocrisy: we're pushing our belly forward. We are fooling families and students who need a school most to prepare them for their professional life and to dream of the opportunities they need and deserve. [[PSD applause.]] Those who know the public school well know its virtues, know the commitment of professionals, know the growing problems of indiscipline, know, because, unlike many rulers, they have their children in public school, know closely the effort of teachers and employees, know that the social devaluation of the class of teachers has to stop,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u12	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u13	... they know that strengthening the authority within the classroom is essential for teaching and also know that the announced follow-up measures are only possible with investment, investment that does not exist in means, equipment, or even in human resources. Even this week, we have had schools closed because of the lack of employees — even today — and we all realize that the Minister of Education does not do anything but always announce the hiring of the same employees and, in the face of the cry of the schools, blames the same as the lack of employees and the chaos installed. At the end of the first period there are about 20 000 students without a teacher at least to one discipline. And here too the blame is always elsewhere, the responsibility is never of the government. It is a lamentable and irresponsible attitude. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, do not come with the history that the administrative purpose of the retentions will be accompanied by pedagogical measures. How? What means? With whom? With the existing teachers, flooded with bureaucracies and demotivated by systematic persecution led by this government? With employees who don't exist in schools? Of course, who has possessions, in the face of all this, puts their children in private school. But who doesn't? Stay at the mercy of the experimentalism of the Ministry of Education! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public school is an indispensable tool for equal opportunities, a school where retentions are intended to decrease and even disappear because students know, acquire knowledge and skills and never by decree. The public school must be a place where the curricular and non-curricular materials are taught and learned, where employees and teachers are respected and valued by all, where it is possible to have resources to accompany those who have the most difficulties and so that they also acquire knowledge and skills. Otherwise, we are making public school a mistake that the new generations will pay dearly in their future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u14	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u15	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The government wants a school where everyone is aware that they all know and, as such, they all pass, where facilitation is needed and not work and commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u16	You've outlived your time. I ask you to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u17	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The government once again calls into question the work and commitment of thousands of professionals who every day try to give young people knowledge and skills. This is not what we want! This is not what Portuguese families and young people need and deserve; they deserve a school that prepares them for a world in permanent change, where knowledge will be increasingly fundamental to fulfilling a dignified life. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u18	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u19	Mr President, I would like to reply to the first three Members. Members and then the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u20	Let us then begin by requesting clarification from Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, Portugal is one of the highest retention levels in Europe. According to the PSD perspective, a student who does not know should plumbar, which means that what the PSD is trying to tell us is that Portugal has the dumbest students in Europe. Therefore, students in Portugal do not know! That's what the PSD is saying. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] But that's not what all international data say, that's not what the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) says, it's not what the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) says, it's not, in fact, what is in all reports that even say that Portugal is above the average in relation to the number of students with sufficient performance in science and mathematics. So if we don't have the dumbest or most improvised students in Europe, why do students lead in Portugal? However, the OECD, the CNE ( National Council for Education ), the European Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u22	David Justino!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u23	... tell us that students, in Portugal, lead due to a culture of retention,... [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH laughter.]] ... due to a conviction that it is by retention that students' learning is improved. A retention is an administrative act that determines that a student repeats a year, but does not say that he will have alternative learning strategies, does not say that he will have reinforcement of tutors or teachers, does not say that he will take more attention in any dimension of his learning, does not say that he will be more or less well classified, does not say that he will have more or less teachers; says that he will repeat a year, that is what he says. He says that a student who, for some reason, failed to follow the pace of learning receives the punishment of repeating a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u24	It's not punishment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u25	If you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u26	All studies say that retention is not the most effective method to improve learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u27	So, what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u28	The PSD does not see this, because the PSD is not looking to see education as a method of improving learning, it is looking to see education as a race of horses, in which those who, for some reason— for their own fault, for family or other contexts—are not able to follow up are left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u29	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. That is what we want to avoid, that there are students left behind. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] The vision of the PSD that, purely and simply, lead...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u31	I would ask you to finish your speech, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u32	I want to finish, Mr President, but I am having some difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u33	Yes, he is! Clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u34	The vision of the PSD... [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u35	I'm asking the ladies. Members to behave with the speaker, just as the speaker's bench did with the honourable Member who spoke earlier. It's the least! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u36	So well-behaved they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, reducing a complex problem of learning to lead has a name: facilitation. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] What the PSD wants is to impose the primacy not of facilitation, but of obscurantism...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u38	You must conclude, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u39	...and deliberately restrict people's access to knowledge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u40	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u41	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, I don't know if you're going to fall, but one thing is right: you haven't studied the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u42	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u43	And I'm going to tell you why, sir. We have a problem with retention, mainly because retention, as a pedagogical measure, is inefficient, does not result, does not correct learning and often has the consequence of shooting for early school dropouts those who repeat the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u45	So we have a problem! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a problem that needs to be solved by two ways: by appropriate legislation and by appropriate practices. With the legislation, what's at stake? Decree-Law No 55 / 2018, approved by the previous Government on this issue, basically says that retention outside the terminal years is an exceptional measure, but you say that it is facilitation. I am going to give you something new: it is precisely that this criterion has existed since 2012 by means of a decree — Decree-Law No 139 / 2012 — signed by Prime Minister Passos Coelho and Minister Nuno Crato. Therefore, Mr President, on the first point, it has led, because it is accusing us of something that you have already done before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only that you did this with a lack of conviction and therefore did not do the rest that it was to practice, but we did. Therefore, the National School Success Promotion Program has results in view. I will give you a very concrete example, even to deny your idea that those who do not know go to the same. The Pedagogic Innovation Pilot Project, which gave schools enhanced autonomy to seek non-retention strategies, goes there to know why, has managed to reduce much of the retentions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u46	Six schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u47	... because there was investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u49	...but it didn't end with them. Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u50	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u51	I will finish, Mr. President. For a very simple reason: because there is nothing administrative here, there is nothing automatic here, there are no automatic passages, there are no administrative passages. Who doesn't know doesn't pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u52	After all, it's not over! What are we staying on?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u53	However, the school has to make the students know.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u54	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u55	Mr President, I advise you: ask the first Vice-President of your party, Prof. David Justino, what I meant when he accused the existence of a culture of retention and selectivity...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u56	Better go read!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u57	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u58	...because it is this culture of retention and selectivity that you suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u59	Mr Porfirio Silva, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u60	We need to study the lesson! We need to study the lesson! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u61	For clarifications, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u62	Mr President, I would like to begin by greeting Mr Emídio Guerreiro for bringing this issue to plenary, which the CDS also brought 15 days ago on the occasion of our political declaration. It is worth it, as you can see, to insist on the matter, because the ideas are clearly not arranged.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u63	That's right! Every day there's a version!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u64	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, of the Left Block, says that plumbar is a punishment. Madam Member, punishment is to pass without a chance to learn, punishment is to pass a student because yes and condemn him to a future in which, later on, he will find himself unprepared to deal with his future life. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Madam Member, do you know why a lead student was the question to which you didn't answer? A lead student, in our teaching system, whether public or private, because the system has failed him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u65	So the system's going down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u66	That's why the lead student, because he didn't have a chance to learn. Madam Member, for a student to have an opportunity to learn, there must be employees in schools to, for example, open the library, because, if it is closed, students cannot have access to books; there must be teachers in the classroom not only at the beginning of the school year, but also when there are replacements; secondary schools must not be followed years without Portuguese and mathematics teachers and then there must be a final exam and nothing happens; there must be schools with works done and students should not have to wear jackets and gloves to be able to attend classes;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u67	Conclusion : students fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u68	... there must be such a digital plan that would transform education to give body to curriculum flexibility, but none of that happens. I ask Mr Emídio Guerreiro whether or not he agrees with me when I say that the problem is the system to fail students, it is for this reason that they lead, and that none of this is solved by legislation, simply decreeing, in a written paper, that there will be no retentions until the end of the legislature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u69	You don't know what's going on? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u70	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u71	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have been raised to me. I would start by saying to Mrs Mortágua that it is you who systematically want the Portuguese to be dumb to hear them. Let's be clear! You are a complicity aware of the investments that have been made in schools. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u72	I am sorry that I did not listen to what I said, because it is not — I repeat the sentence I said from the rostrum — to « transform lead into alpha and the omega of education».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u73	It's better to explain that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u74	Yes, it is to create conditions so that each one can have his or her journey assured.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u76	That's it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u77	This is where the school has failed, because the government does not invest, and does not do it because you are complicit! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u78	No, you haven't failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u79	So the problem isn't chumbar? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u80	You have been pretending for four years that you are not part of the government on the second, fourth and sixth, and on the third and fifth occasions you are voting alongside them and making their proposals viable. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] That is why we do not accept, Mr Porfirio Silva, that the retentions, not being the single instrument, are completely devalued, because we do not see massively in schools the answer that is necessary, because there are not enough teachers, there are no employees and no money. But you continue to realize that it is true that it is enough to put all these conditions into a decree. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if all this were true, if this perfect world I also referred to existed, if it were all happening, we would certainly not have the number of restraints we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u82	Because the answers would be given, but they're not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u83	See the statistics!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u84	I am very sorry that the government and the parties that support this government do not take their heads out of the sand and do not realize that this problem is only solved with serious, serious and consistent investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u86	That is not what we still see today when we have schools closed for lack of employees and more than 20,000 students who still do not have teachers at least one discipline.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u88	Tell the Portuguese how there can be recovery plans if we don't even have teachers for normal curriculum disciplines! [[PSD applause.]] Get your head out of the sand! Do your responsibilities and share with your government in transforming what is in the role into reality! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The question is this, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa: it is not enough to say, it must be done; it is not enough to seem, it is necessary to know. What's important is that all students in schools learn to know. And, Mr Porfirio Silva, about this responsibility, which is yours, are completely failing because you are incapable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u89	It's the PSD running behind the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u90	To request clarification from Mr Emídio Guerreiro, Mr. Commissioner Mariana Silva, from the Greens, and Ana Mesquita, from the CFP. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u91	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, The Greens have taken up the defense of public and quality school for a democratic, plural and inclusive education as a condition for ensuring constitutional right to education and for recognizing, in education, the condition of sustainable development and the achievement, in the future, of a more just and supportive world. The withdrawal of hundreds of millions of euros from public school and the removal of thousands of workers during the PSD/CDS government should make the Members feel ashamed. Members who now come to "cry crocodile tears" about public school. It was this disinvestment that led us to this point, where there is a shortage of resources, leading to the booming of problems for students, firstly, and for teachers and all the employees who work in them, who thus see themselves disrespected and devalued in their role in building a democratic society. Every day, we watch school communities express themselves against the lack of conditions, especially as regards assistants, which are far from the minimum services for the operation of safe schools. We have already said here that these are not problems now and that the responsibilities are shared between PS, PSD and CDS, but exactly so require immediate answers. Investing in public school is investing in the qualification of Portuguese and in the future development of the country. Regarding the lack of educational assistants in schools, we now have the game of pushing between the municipal chambers that signed the decentralization protocol and the Ministry of Education, following the agreements between PSD and PS. On the one hand, municipal chambers say that the transfer of employees has not yet been carried out and much less have received their money; on the other hand, the Ministry of Education washes its hands, saying that it is no longer their personal responsibility of the schools of the municipalities that signed the decentralization protocol. Mr President, does the PSD not also feel responsible for this situation, since it has made it possible for decentralization? The PSD is willing to do its act of contribution, because it has drastically disinvested in education...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u92	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u93	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Is the PSD willing to make its contribution act, because it has drastically disinvested in education and reduced the number of school employees during its last government? [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u94	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u95	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, the CFP believes that teachers should have all the tools and means to pedagogically define and evaluate each case. If, in fact, we question what concrete measures will be taken by the Government in this area—because there is a problem that is identified, with regard to retentions—the question is the following: what measures does the PSD propose to strengthen, for example, continuous evaluation, for the elimination of social, economic and learning barriers in the pursuit of studies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u97	What measures does the PSD propose to ensure that the school is not a mechanism for the reproduction of all social inequalities? That's what it's like to talk about. The honourable Member may come here to golden the pill and talk about the underfunding, the lack of teachers, the lack of educational support staff, but, Mr Member, what measures has been taken, after all, the PSD has been taken throughout its history, whenever it has been in government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u98	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u99	... and what have they contributed, only and only, to raise more, and more, and more barriers to whom they study, especially to whom they have the most economic needs? In fact, what you managed to do was cut into the investment, it was to fire teachers and educational support staff in a barda — a scandal! —, it was to impose tests, and more examinations, and more examinations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u101	... was to increase the number of students per class and therefore the conditions for improving the teaching/learning process remained along the way, was to reduce the number of assistants and reduce the ratio, it was to make technical precarious specialized. Mr President, it seems to me that, here, there is a demagogy bath on the part of the PSD, because what you see is that the PSD wants to make more, more and more difficult, but the continuation of studies has to be a fundamental issue for which the PSD, over the years, has never contributed with solutions, only and only contributed to worsening problems. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u102	You have the floor to answer Mr Emídio Guerreiro from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u103	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Mariana Silva and Mrs Ana Mesquita. The measures implemented in 2012 have already been mentioned here, which supposedly opened the door to what is happening now. What was omitted was that, in this model, the end-of-cycle evaluations were not done at the end of 9 years of schooling, there were intermediate evaluations, which allowed the collection of data to be possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u104	And there's still!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u105	Mr President, it is called assessment of the test of measurement that is because there are no children in public school, because if I had, I would not say so. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] If you talk to a child who is 13 or 14 years old, she will tell you what is a proof of measurement and what is a test and perhaps you would learn a lot. Open... I also wanted to say that, as Mrs. Mariana Silva and Mrs. Ana Mesquita also know from 2012 onwards, school dropout has declined immensely, it was in arrow. In other words, the measures were not so bad. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] However, I understand your problem well: they want to refer this issue to a longer past. If we all go back to a longer and longer past, it is a way of washing consciences and « waving the water from the hood». But I will say that we have never been in such a bad situation as we are now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u106	I'm exaggerating!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u107	At the end of the first period, we never had 20 000 children, 20 000 students, without teachers in all disciplines. Never! You know why? Oh, my God! [[PS and BE protests.]] You know why? Oh, my God! Because you gentlemen, over four years, and they're going to start the fifth year... [[Continuation of PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker finish speaking. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, over the past four years, they are preparing to do the same this year and in the coming years! — you have made it possible by voting in favour of the budget proposal which, in practice, does not pay the teachers who are necessary, does not pay the officials who are necessary and much less pay the educational projects that are necessary to combat this scourge.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u110	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u111	That's the point! And you, as well as you have that responsibility because you are complicit conscious of this policy — the left all together — come here and, instead of taking responsibility and making things change, no, look back, back, back! [[PCP protests.]] But time is today, it is a recent past and it is, above all, the future, that, yes, that bothers me, that must bother us all, because what is at stake here is the memory of opportunities for those who need it most. As I said, whoever has money has already taken the children from public school and put them in private schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u112	Mr. Deputies wants private colleges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u113	...and this is a legacy that, frankly, I never thought the Portuguese left would guarantee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u114	I have the floor for a political statement by Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our National Health Service ( SNS) is the best in the world. It is due to the drastic reduction in infant mortality and the increase in the average life expectancy. And our health professionals are also the best in the world. They owe the resilience of the SNS and their extraordinary ability to make health a right. And this is unquestionable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u117	A useful exercise is, in fact, to know the experience of those who refused the historic option by a National Health Service. See the case of the United States of America: payment of medical expenses is the biggest cause of personal failure in the United States. More than unemployment, it is the payment of health care that drives people to poverty. In Portugal, even those who have spent all their time fighting the National Health Service, since 1979, have enormous difficulties in putting it at stake. It is that the population knows that the SNS is essential in their day to day, knows that the only way is to strengthen it. It is therefore not acceptable for them to put themselves on the table, such as that of the rotating closure of emergencies, as has already been put in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u119	The SNS can't be a short blanket, which spreads on one side to cover the other. It is not acceptable to close services, now at night, or at the end of the week, for lack of professionals, as happens in Garcia de Orta. SNS is not an intermittent service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u121	It is not acceptable to lack professionals to ensure scales, consultations and surgeries. The SNS that the country deserves is not that of the minimum services, is that of the ready response for all needs. Our SNS is not that of closures, our SNS is not that which is forbidden, by order, to hire the professionals it needs. Our SNS is that of the professionals, it is that of the users, it is what hires and creates conditions to fix professionals in the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the following issues. Are there any obstetricians missing to guarantee emergency scales? There are 1400 in functions in the country, only 850 in the National Health Service. Are there any anesthetists for emergency scales to respond to surgical lists? The Order data show nearly 2000 registered, but the social balance sheet of the Ministry of Health says only half works in the SNS. Does Garcia de Orta have a hard time picking up pediatricians? Again: the Order of Doctors speaks in 2000 registered, but the social balance of the Ministry of Health lists 1100 specialists in medical pediatrics, plus 64 in pediatric surgery. This reality is replicated by many other specialties. In ophthalmology and urology we have unacceptable waiting times. Why? One third of the recent specialists in urology and ophthalmology did not want to stay in the National Health Service. That's a lot! It's too much! Even because they were all necessary. There are many professionals who are no longer in the SNS. Others don't want to stay there when they finish training. Those who come out speak of the excess of work, of a career that does not progress, of not valuing its function. Those who do not want to stay there, even after having done their specialized training there, consider it unattractive. This is a reality that we have to change. This is the reality that we have to change, that we intend to change, to have a robust SNS, with accessibility and speed of response. It is therefore necessary for the Government to take out the SNS, which will enable the necessary professionals to be hired. To that end, it cannot impose any order, which seeks to ignore the basic law or the law of strengthening the autonomy of the institutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who create a regime that promotes the exclusivity of professionals, who protect the most valuable use of the SNS, that is to say, who devotes himself full time to the public service, which allows them to capture professionals so that the services do not close, so that waiting times do not last, so that the populations have better care. That is, in fact, something that has already been provided for in the Basic Law. It is therefore time for realisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u123	Question No 1 : How should this exclusivity be achieved? The Left Block responds : there are charges in which this exclusivity should be mandatory condition, as is the case of service directors. There are cases in which it should be optional, starting with recent specialists, some areas lacking, and extending to all professionals who want to work full-time and exclusively in the National Health Service. Exclusively, incentives should be created for remuneration, progression, research hours and the organization of working time. Question No 2 : With what resources will these incentives be paid? It is, of course, that there are those who will say that such a regime is going to be very expensive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is dear that there are no professionals in the National Health Service and then spend the double or triple to offer worse services to the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u125	More than 260 million euros were spent in extraordinary hours, 105 million euros in services—more specifically, 36 million euros in doctors without expertise to provide emergency services, 8 million euros to ensure anesthetists, 6 million euros in obstetrics, nearly 3 million euros in radiology, 3 million others in pediatrics, plus 8 million euros in internal medicine, and so on. Today, many resources are wasted because there is no exclusivity regime. These resources would not have been wasted, but would have been invested in the SNS. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u126	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Left Block is willing to propose, contribute and create this exclusivity regime. The next question is: will be the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen willing to follow? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u128	Mr. Deputies, five were registered. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u129	Mr President, I respond to the first two Mrs. Members and then the remaining three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u130	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u131	Mr. President, the Member of the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u132	Moses Ferreira!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u133	... came here to defend the strengthening of the National Health Service and argue that there is a lack of human resources in the SNS. We couldn't agree more. It is necessary to strengthen the SNS and the first thing to do is to strengthen human resources. However, we must remember why the human resources situation in the SNS is what we have today. And what we have is a degradation of the National Health Service, particularly at the level of hospitals, degradation which results essentially from the policies of the Socialist Party which, for four years, governed the country and governed the National Health Service from the Ministry of Finance. What we have today is a set of hospitals whose management councils are limited in their work, either in their management capacity or in the financial resources they can use, or in the freedom to manage human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u135	And where do those restrictions come from? They come from four State budgets that this government has designed and executed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u137	But it must be remembered that these four State budgets, approved and executed by the Government of the Socialist Party, were four budgets approved by the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] It is important to be aware that the increasing degradation of SNS is a direct and inevitable consequence of these State budgets. Therefore, I ask you, Member of the Commission, when the Left Block will assume its responsibility for the current state of degradation of the SNS, responsibility that stems directly from the fact that it has approved the four State budgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u139	... that led the SNS to this situation of chaos that is seen in the emergencies of the Garcia de Orta Hospital, the Hospital de Santa Maria, the hospital of Aveiro and the hospital of Viseu. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u140	Also to make requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u141	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, brings us today the subject of the degradation of the SNS, sets out this premise, with which we agree, with the only difference that we have not signed under the State budgets which the Left Block has signed in the past four years. Although always in great litigation and always rowing very much, but, at the time of truth, there approved the State Budget! We have this difference, agreeing on the premise. Next, what you did was give the traditional explanation of the Left Block for this degradation, saying that the fault is for the private: the private are bad because they open hospitals next door to satisfy a need for health care that is not satisfied by the SNS ; doctors are taken by a malicious force and will work there for the private, where they have, in fact, better wages and better working conditions to provide such health care; people will also, of course, be very wrong, particularly those who have ADSE and are public employees, because they end up using the private to see their health needs satisfied, although you also do not have the courage to end ADSE, which was what they wanted. And that is how they solve the great responsibilities and the great problems of SNS degradation! And now they bring a new solution, typical of the Left Block, which is a solution of authoritarianism, to force doctors to stay in the SNS, even if emergency doctors, for example the Hospital de Santa Maria, sign statements that they excuse themselves for any responsibility because they do not find in those emergencies the conditions to guarantee the clinical care they should guarantee! But you, Mr President, do not care. What matters to you is that the doctors there are, hopefully, to gain less thanks, because that is your duty to the homeland! Mr President, I would like to know whether this time it will be in this State budget which will in fact be defining and finalizing the approval of the Left Block on the basis of what the SNS budget is. It is because we are tired of being heard to complain, but, at the time of truth, they put your signature and thus ensure that everything remains exactly the same. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u142	To reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u143	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Almeida and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would obviously like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr Álvaro Almeida, with regard to the four State budgets, was somewhat predictable to come around here, as it was also quite predictable that... [[Isn't that true?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u144	Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be right back. You also need to have time and space for that! It was therefore somewhat predictable, as it was also predictable that whether or not they agreed with the system of exclusivity for professionals, they would not have much to say on the subject of the political declaration. Therefore, it corresponded to predictability and expectation, which unfortunately was not the highest, about what could be the contribution of the PSD and CDS-PP to this debate. But I'm coming! Open... The Left Block voted favourably the four State budgets because they always increased the budget of the National Health Service, against which the PSD and CDS-PP voted, perhaps because they increased the budget of the National Health Service. Maybe that was the PSD and CDS-PP problem! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. José Manuel Pureza (BE ) : - Well done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u145	But, then, it's all wonderful! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u146	We do not regret having voted favourably, nor do we regret having created a new Health Bases Act, the law against which the PSD and the CDS-PP voted because they wanted that primacy of the private, that the resources were all channelled to the private and that the SNS budget was turned to the private. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It's not gonna happen like that, it can't happen like that. And what the Left Block does now is not to repent of the past and deepen the way it has been doing: defending more resources for the SNS, giving centrality to the SNS with the Health Bases Law and now taking new steps,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u147	Here it is! You see how predictable it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u148	... in particular in the legal system of exclusivity, which implies giving incentives to professionals to capture and fix them in the National Health Service. from the PSD and CDS-PP we did not have much participation in this debate. In fact, on the CDS-PP side it seemed until there was a slight disregard for what I said a little while ago from the rostrum. We did not speak of the degradation that the CDS-PP wants it to exist in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u149	Sir, I call your attention to time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u150	I think I have three minutes, Mr. President. This is a joint answer. We called attention to two very concrete proposals in order to improve the conditions in the National Health Service: there are no orders that create a contract and create such an exclusivity regime in the National Health Service. We didn't talk about forcing doctors to stay in the National Health Service. In addition, we said that the exclusivity regime should have associated incentives, including remuneration incentives, career progression, hours for research and others and the organisation of working time. But what I think is that the CDS and PSD don't want these incentives, because they don't want to pick up and fix doctors in the National Health Service. Perhaps they are comfortable with the 105 million euros that go to services and the many others that go to the private! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u151	There are three further requests for clarification. First of all, Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moisés Ferreira, in fact, we thank you for bringing this issue to the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the National Health Service has allowed unquestionable achievements in providing high quality care to the population, improving access to health, having been found answers to the problems that have been faced. The National Health Service is facing new challenges today and it is these challenges that we have to meet. Yes, Mr President, we also know that we must have structural measures in order to move forward in response to these problems and we recognize that one of the measures we have taken has been to strengthen human resources and resources, with more than 11 000 professionals for the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to tell you that we have taken steps to strengthen primary care, to create family health units, to strengthen continuing care, and to take many other measures. We agree that human resources are the pillar of any organization and, by way of greater importance, also in the provision of health care. And we are proud of this National Health Service, in which we must continue to invest, strengthening these same human resources, not only in terms of budget allocation, so that we can increase the number of professionals, but also through the valorization of careers, investment in hospitals and health units, because only making the units of the National Health Service more attractive, especially with the appreciation of careers, will be able to attract and fix more professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u153	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u154	With regard to the question of full dedication, we also believe that we must take some steps, but we must always be step-by-step: through the attractiveness of the system and not through measures that may have contradictory effects. So, yes, we agree that we must continue to strengthen the National Health Service, and we will do everything for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u155	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, we follow the concerns expressed here regarding the need for the valorization of the National Health Service, but also the strengthening of human resources, because public services in general are very fragile, with a particular focus on health, and in fact the Garcia de Orta Hospital is only one example of the picture that the health situation is in the country, because the lack of human and technical resources is a cross-cutting problem to all health services and it is meaningful everywhere. But, Mr. Moses Ferreira, we know that the problem is not now, it is not a new problem and, contrary to what Mr. Álvaro Almeida says, the world has not started four years ago, it has started long before. So today's situation also stems from two elements that I will mention: on the one hand, it stems from chronic underfunding to which SNS has been subject for decades and, on the other hand, from the passage of the PSD/CDS government through the country's destinations, because a government that sees health only as a source of expenditure that and had a view of it as a mere book of debt and has guided its entire policy by elements that have greatly contributed to the situation that is now living. And I give just two examples: if you remember, the PSD/CDS government has closed services throughout the country and, in addition to the underfunding of these services, not only did it not hire professionals as it has still provided thousands of health professionals, leaving health services in the penury. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Moisés Ferreira, we know that, but we also know that this cannot be an excuse for the government to fail to respond to these problems. It seems to us that the response is delayed and that the investment is delayed and we consider that either the government is starting to look at the quality—or the lack of it—of Portuguese access to health care or, then, the chaos-CL will definitely be installed. That is why we find it very unreasonable that the Government intends to have the right accounts with the European Union and that it does not have the right accounts with the Portuguese, even above an area as sensitive as that of health. Having said that, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I ask you the following question: would it not seem to you that it would be much wiser and fairer for the government to make a good figure with the SNS and the quality of the public services provided to the Portuguese rather than giving priority to the good figure for Europe to see?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u157	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u158	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I also welcome him on the subject of debate, the concerns with the National Health Service and its professionals. I begin by saying that it is not by chance that one of the attacks that is addressed to the National Health Service is carried out through the attack on the rights of its professionals: their devaluation, their non-recognition and insistence on political options that lead to demotivation, fatigue and exhaustion, leading many health professionals to leave the National Health Service precisely for these reasons, because they no longer manage to endure and feel deeply devalued and unrecognized. The PSD came here to talk about the last four years, but we're gonna give him a little bit of memory. It is that the PSD really likes to put the counter-kilometres in 2016, but unfortunately the story already comes a little further behind. For decades, with successive governments, PS, PSD and CDS, there has been uninvestment in the National Health Service, either attacking their professionals or with the progressive delivery of public services to private economic groups. When we ask questions of defense of the National Health Service here is because we are fully aware that it is a universal and free public service that gives answers to all, but to all, citizens, to all, but to all, users, without discrimination. You are more concerned about defending the business and interests of private groups and therefore go into a logic of fragility and disbelief of the National Health Service to benefit private interests. The Socialist Party refers to the achievements and what actually enabled the National Health Service, but its defense is not with rhetoric, but with concrete measures, which are missing. I would therefore like to ask Mr Moisés Ferreira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u159	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. To defend the National Health Service is essential, it is essential to defend and strengthen the rights of its professionals, to value their careers, their professional performance. Yes, it is fundamental to advance towards exclusive dedication,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u161	Madam Member, the time you had has been long gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u162	... because only with valued and motivated professionals it is possible to have a National Health Service with more quality and with better care and service to users. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u163	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, has 3 minutes to answer. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u164	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Hortense Martins, Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mrs Paula Santos for her questions. Mrs Hortense Martins, there has indeed been a strengthening of professionals, human resources and also a budgetary strengthening of the National Health Service over the past four years. We have contributed to this, certainly we do not regret, as I said here today in plenary, but we want to deepen all this. We have made progress, particularly with a new Health Bases Act, which now needs to be implemented, such as with regard to full dedication and the establishment of incentives. We believe, in fact, that it is possible to do so now much more than what is being done. We can start, for example, by in this House of the Republic, and on a proposal from the Left Block, by recommending the repeal of an order that binds the institutions and does not allow them to contract according to their needs. This is the Order No 1 of the Secretary of State for Health, which, symbolically, does not pay much for the government, but I believe that the Assembly of the Republic should state — the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, should also do - that this office should not exist, that it should not produce effect and that institutions should be able to create jobs, to hire according to their needs. The honourable Member also spoke of the full dedication and position that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has to take steps. So we need to see which one. Full dedication must be a reality. If it is to take step forward, then I think we have to start with the service directors and say that they have as a condition for the exercise of the charge the exclusiveness of functions. They are the leaders of teams, they organize teams and it is among them that promiscuity can occur to a greater degree and therefore must be the first. Then, as we have said, we must continue with recent specialists, with more needy specialties and other professionals, all those who want to adhere, with an incentive regime, to exclusiveness in the National Health Service. Mr. José Luís Ferreira spoke about certain accounts. I believe that this is a very good discussion, because indeed it is not true that we will be spending 260 million euros in extraordinary hours when, with this money, we could hire 8,000 professionals for the National Health Service. And it is not true to spend EUR 105 million on job services when, with that money, we could create an incentive scheme for exclusive dedication, which would set professionals in the National Health Service. Finally, Mrs Paula Santos spoke about strengthening professional rights. We agree, of course, that the incentive and promotion system of exclusivity also has as a return the strengthening of the rights of professionals, whether from a remuneration point of view or from a career point of view, because those who dedicate themselves exclusively to the SNS should also have that return on their career. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u165	You now have the floor for a political statement by Mr António Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Tomorrow, the security forces and services professionals leave the street to express their protest because of the government's lack of response to their legitimate demands. When it comes to praising the action of security forces and services, rulers do not spare in words. Which is right. The rulers do not save in praise, but the problem is that they don't. The fair demands of the professionals of the security forces and services, expressed through their trade unions and socio-professional associations, systematically deal with the indifference of the rulers, with the lack of dialogue and with the absence of any response. In the past legislation, the PCP collaborated in the adoption of a trade union law of the PSP (PSC) to end the abuse of trade unions without any representativeness, only with the aim of benefiting from union hourly credits. However, with the same sense of responsibility, the CFP presented in this House draft laws on the adoption of a status of the police condition and on conditions of hygiene and safety in the work of the security forces and services, proposals sadly rejected by parties that do not tire of praising their professionals. It is commendable that the security forces and services professionals, with the limited material and human resources they constantly denounce, contribute decisively so that the rulers can take pride in Portugal as one of the safest countries in the world. It is commendable that the professionalism and sense of humanity with which Portuguese security forces and services professionals save victims in the Mediterranean, helping to mitigate the consequences of the catastrophic humanitarian situation that has taken place over various countries and for which the European Union has greatly contributed, through irresponsible policies that combine the interference, destabilization and plundering of these countries' resources with the refusal to face up to the humanitarian response that is imposed, in the face of the tragedy of thousands of human beings seeking immigration their chances of survival. It is commendable that the professionals of the security forces and services have to face situations of enormous pesosity and risk and that often, in carrying out their missions, face aggressions or, as recently happened, lose their own lives. However, problems such as the fair replacement of careers and the amount of retirement pensions, after almost a decade of freezing, such as the creation of risk subsidies and mission pesosity, such as medical and psychological support, such as the minimum guarantee of hygiene and safety conditions at work, such as the allocation of staff in reasonable numbers for the fulfilment of missions or as the definition of a time of service in the GNR ( Republican National Guard) did not have any response from the Government. Instead, what we see is the imposition of disciplinary processes on association leaders because they have the courage to carry out their duty as leaders, publicly defending the rights and interests of their associates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u168	As long as PS, PSD and CDS do nothing and do not allow suicides in security forces and services to continue at alarming levels, professionals do not get any response to their demands, and consequently increases the frustration and discontent that the police force is forcing to leave the street. The CFP does not advocate the establishment of a police state. Police must act within the limits of their duties and in strict respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And there must be the greatest rigour in monitoring and controlling police activity. Abuse of authority and non-compliance by police officers must always be subject to strict supervision and the clearance of responsibilities that must take place. The infiltration of security forces and services by elements of extreme right, racist and xenophobic must be worth an implacable fight on the part of governments and all democratic forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u169	Security forces and services cannot be foreign bodies to the democratic order they have to safeguard, but this means that their professionals' democratic rights are equally respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u171	The PCP has already re-presented its draft laws on the status of the police condition, on the conditions of hygiene and safety in the work of the security forces and services and on the time of service in the GNR. We hope that when these initiatives are scheduled for debate in plenary, there will be some consistency between words and acts from all other parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u173	It is of no use to praise the professionals of the security forces and services in words and then, when it comes to giving them conditions to carry out their missions and to show respect for their fundamental rights and claims, there is a great silence, when not a obstruction of the constructive initiatives that are presented to improve the situation of these professionals. We hope that, when these debates take place, there will be consistency between words and acts by all parties and that these professionals will see this Assembly of the Republic approve a status of its police status that effectively respects its rights and its demands. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u174	Mr António Filipe, four Members were registered for requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u175	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u176	I then begin by giving the floor, for a request for clarification, to Mr José Magalhães of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, for a long time, the right has led a debate around a false dichotomy — or freedom or security. I believe that the Socialist Party helped to denounce this false dichotomy, stating that there is no freedom without security, and to contribute, in particular, objectively and effectively, to the creation of better security conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore agree! And we also agree on the role of a police or security forces in a democratic state. We were, for years, the object of that dictatorship theory that where a police officer was being repression, and where a police officer is, democracy and respect for the Constitution of the Republic. And what we've been doing here! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u178	That's very important to us. But your thesis, which has been repeatedly developed — I have told you about seven times — is that the words that the government is directing and nothing more than that are praised. I believe that this is to undermine the work, in which the PCP collaborated in the past legislature, of approval of diplomas that have improved the financing conditions, from the beginning of the Budgets and the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for Security Forces and Services, which guaranteed EUR 450 million for the security sector, which, as you well know, is very important. On the other hand, the Government's programme is committed to a three-year recruitment law of personnel for security forces and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u179	Mr. José Magalhães, I would like to draw your attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u180	They're concrete things! Others will be discreet. Infiltration of extreme-right elements in the security forces requires appropriate and discreet measures. And it is not an illusion, Mr André Ventura!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u181	No, it's not an illusion...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u182	Unfortunately, it is a reality that must be removed! Mr António Filipe, what is your position? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u183	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Monica Quintela, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to congratulate Mr António Filipe on bringing this issue to the debate, which could not be of greater relevance, on the statement that we are going to have at the door of the Assembly of the Republic tomorrow, in which it is estimated that at least 10 000 people from the PSP and the GNR will claim their fair aspirations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u186	I can also call for the approval in the previous Parliament of the Infrastructure Programming and Equipment Law of the Forces and Security Services, which had an estimated implementation of only 60 %. And why? We all know this: because of the famous captivitys! This framework law allowed, timely and programmed, as the title of the law itself indicates, if I could schedule the exit of the NGR and PSP effectives — which, I would like to stress here, are not only criminal police bodies, they also perform an absolutely priority and central role in our society, since they support the elderly, to help us all, and what is happening is that most of the exits of these assets are given by age limit, by reform. Now, reform is an absolutely predictable and programmable aspect and, as such, could be equalized and prevented so that the GNR and PSP would not be completely defused and impoverished, as they are. The generality of these retirements could soon have been compensated with new effects which had entered. We also found the state in which GNR and PSP teams are located, the lack of equipment that have...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u187	Mrs. Monica Quintela, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u188	I shall conclude by asking the following question: where was the CFP when it approved the State budgets and the policy of captivating that let it come to this situation, to which, unfortunately, tomorrow, we will all be watching on a privileged stage? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u189	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u190	Mr President, Mr José Magalhães, I can no longer agree with you when you say that there is a false dichotomy between freedom and security. We couldn't agree more about it, it's a fake dichotomy. Benjamin Franklin well said with his famous phrase, in which he referred more or less to this: « Whoever is willing to sacrifice freedom in the name of security does not deserve one another». Therefore, in our view, there must be greater rigour in the enforcement of the law, in respect for the rights of citizens, in the operation of security forces and services, but it is also necessary to respect the professionals of the security forces and services and to value their performance, and also to respond to their fair demands. And there he says that we would be undermining the work for which we have contributed in the last legislature. But that is not so, Mr, until in my speech I have valued the fact that we have even approved a new union law for the PSP. What we regret is not to have done, in the previous Parliament, what could have been done. We regret, in particular, that the proposals presented here by the CFP, either as regards the status of the police condition, or as regards the improvement of safety and hygiene conditions in the work of the personnel of the security forces and services had not been approved, and there the PS, the PSD and the CDS converged on the non-approval of these measures. They could have been approved, thus giving some satisfaction to the fair demands of the security forces and services professionals. Mrs Mónica Quintela, I would also like to thank you for your questions. It is curious that you have talked about the framework law for programming investments in security forces equipment and infrastructures, because that law existed, but then it ceased to exist, because the PSD and the CDS in the government have ended it. And, in the past legislature, it was again approved a framework law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u192	... with which the PCP agreed. In fact, the first initiative in this respect, many years ago, in this House, was precisely the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u194	The problem is execution!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u195	Therefore, it is necessary that this law be fulfilled. It's just that she's practically in the year zero and this year would be year one. We therefore hope that this law will be effectively fulfilled and that it will not happen as it has happened other times, in which we had a law in the role but that it has not gone into practice. But here we will be to monitor the application of this investment framework law. He asked me where the PCP was and I asked where the PSD was — we know, we were here and you were there — when he allowed the police status proposed by the PCP to be rejected,... [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] ... and when neither approved the PCP bill on hygiene and safety conditions in the work of the personnel of the security forces and services. You speak a lot about the security forces, but when you have tried to approve concrete measures here to benefit from your situation, there you are. Ladies and gentlemen missed the call. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u196	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u197	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, your last reference is very interesting, because I know where the honourable Member was when this House, in the past legislature, approved the risk allowance, and you also know where I was and where all the other Members were — we were all here! And the risk allowance was approved. It's just, then, what happened? Was there a risk grant? No, there wasn't! Therefore, Mr President, I would recommend to you, when you speak in the past legislature and what you have done in the past legislature, that you think more about what you have done in the past legislature. What if you think you did well in the past legislature, with a majority ruling for four years, how is it possible that we have reached the situation that we have arrived today? A situation in which the security forces and services, the unions you know well and the representatives of the professionals you also know well say: "We have never been like this, we have never been in such a dramatic and desperate situation as we are today! Therefore, you should know what you are doing. At the same time, Mr António Filipe is challenging to do something very simple. You say 'we will be consistent, we will be concrete'. So, let's do it, Mr. Deputies! Let's do it! In short, this House will come to the State Budget and we will see what proposals it has to make — proposals for promotion, for the inclusion of effectives, for the purchase of means and works in the teams. Let's see what will be in the State Budget. And let's see how each party votes. I now commit myself, on behalf of the CDS, to voting in favour of these proposals and of these fair claims. Let us see how you vote and let us see what conclusion they will draw at the end of the budget. We will see whether they will continue, or not, to do as they have done in the past four years, i.e. speak, speak, speak, but in the end, when they vote, they approve the Socialist Party's budget and everything remains in the same. That is what we want to know, Mr President. By the way, let me ask you one more question. The CFP has defended the increase in national minimum wage, and has done so, regardless of social consultation, but I do not want to open this discussion now. But if you defend a national minimum wage, tell me how much you are. Is it €800?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u198	It's 850 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u199	So, if you defend a national minimum wage of this level, what wage do you defend for the men and women of the security forces and what wage are you willing to approve in the State budget for these same forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u200	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u201	What if this salary is not approved, how will you vote on the State budget? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u202	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u203	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that you have brought to this plenary and to tell you that the security forces and services professionals are in fact performing absolutely important and fundamental functions for our life in society. And it is not the infiltrations of elements of the extreme right in the security forces and services — in fact, well expressed in the various international reports, notably Europeans, such as the ECRI (European Commission against Racism and Intolerance) report of last year, so this is a reality that we must consider and that the security forces themselves must also consider — which must serve to negate the image or to diminish the importance of the functions of these men and women, nor so little to ignore what their fair claims and their rights are. It is that speaking in the dignity and valorization of security forces and services begins precisely with respect for these rights and with ensuring the working conditions worthy of these men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u205	And there was not only lack of investment in the previous legislation, since this lack of investment is norm in successive governments. And I am talking about the lack of investment not only in terms of the number of staff — we know that those who have left are more than those who have entered, so we have never been able to have a sufficient number of staff for the needs of the services and especially for the operational functions — but also, above all, in terms of the degradation of the buildings of the teams and the car park and the lack of equipment. From north to south of the country, there are teams and posts of the GNR and PSP with fibrosis plates and which continue to have fibrosis plates, without access to people with conditioned mobility, in which it rains inside, so without any conditions. This investment provided for in the infrastructure programming law, which, with the Government of the past legislature, has been reactivated, must be complied with, and must be done in other forms and beyond what has been achieved in the last legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u206	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u207	I'm done now, Mr. President. I therefore ask Mr António Filipe whether he does not agree with the need for the laws adopted in this Parliament to be implemented, complied with and implemented, that is, in addition to what is written in the paper, to be effectively implemented in practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u208	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u209	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia will not hurt me if I first respond to Mrs Sandra Cunha on a logical question of my answer. We do indeed agree that the legislation adopted here must be complied with and that this House must monitor its compliance. We will therefore be very attentive to the enforcement of the approved law on the installations and equipment of the security forces and services. And we believe that the demands that trade unions and socio-professional associations of security forces and services have come to manifest are fair, because they have been seriously injured in their careers in time of the troika and the PSD/CDS government and there have been problems that have never been solved until today. Obviously, if the problems that have been created have not been solved properly — and I am starting to respond to Mr Telmo Correia as well — they tend to get worse. Therefore, we must understand the frustration of security forces and services professionals. But, Mr Telmo Correia, you need to have discharge to, after the PSD/CDS government has cut the salaries to the police,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u210	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u211	...you come here to express wage concerns. [[PCP applause.]] There is a big difference between us: we are now talking about the need for increases, when you, in your government, have imposed cuts. That's completely different. But there are problems to solve, including at wage level. from that we have a greater understanding of the demands that the security forces and services professionals have been manifesting. The honourable Member has asked me where we are going to be when we discuss the next State budget on this matter. Mr President, we will be here, here to discuss the State budget, to appreciate the proposals put forward in this matter. What we are not is intermittent. It is that, until the government went there, the CDS presented itself as a great paladin of police defense, but when it went to the government it completely forgot, there was a blackout! [[PCP applause.]] When it went to the government there was an absolute blackout in the CDS speech about the police problem. When he went to the opposition, he took up the defense of the police in his speech. But we agreed, with the experience that we all had when you were in government, that took away any credibility from your speech about the need to solve the problems of the police. We, without interference, continue where we have always been: in defense of democratic legality and in defense of respect for the legality and rights of the citizens by the police. We also believe that there should be strict respect for the rights of security forces professionals and that their fair demands should be met. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u212	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and then I would just like to remind you, Mr.António Filipe, that, even in the times of the troika, there was a Ministry that was exceptional in terms of cuts, which was precisely the Ministry of Internal Administration. If we want to talk about this, then let us speak seriously and rigorously, telling the truth: this happened even in the time of the troika, Mr President! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u214	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u215	But we already know that, whenever security, crime or any other issue is discussed, on the part of the government and the parties that have supported and supported it over the past four years, the answer is always the same: "There is no problem, there is no question. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world! » For the government and for the parties of the majority, there is no problem, security is not even a matter. The fact that Portugal is a relatively safe country is obviously positive. It's only good not to forget why that happens. This is due to the extraordinary work, effort, spirit of dedication and sacrifice of women and men who integrate security forces, day by day, without having the conditions for this, as Mr. Commander of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area of the Public Security Police today recalled. Moreover, over the past four years, there have been numerous demonstrations that illustrate this. in these manifestations, during the previous government of António Costa and Eduardo Cabrita — as I myself had occasion to remind the former and new Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita — it was very visible a very repeated and well known slogan, which was this: « O Cabrita, look at this, the Safe Country and the police in this! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This slogan has been repeated and illustrates the reality of what these past four years have been. Mrs. Members, debate after debate, RASI ( Annual Report on Internal Security) after RASI, State budget after State budget, on behalf of the CDS, we have been demanding, appealing and demanding answers to this question. We have made proposals in the budget of the State, we have proposed the necessary funds and they have been systematically plunged by the Government of the Socialist Party and by the majority who supported it over four years. It is true that security is the primary condition of freedom, but it is also true that without State authority there is no security or freedom. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u216	throughout the previous legislation, we warned the irresponsibility of not having been answered to essential questions and that the situation of the security forces was moving towards the unsustainable. to date, nothing. Zero! for four years, no admissions of cash, no remuneration rates, no tenders for promotion, no fair changes in wages, no risk allowance that Parliament itself approved, not even the supplements that the court had determined, nor investment in degraded teams or equipment. This is the truth! During an entire legislature, nothing, zero! Now that the situation has become increasingly unsustainable, now that discontent has grown exponentially, neither has the government given satisfactory answers, nor has it been for lack of occasion. It is enough to recall, for example, that in the debate of the Government's programme, myself and others. We asked Mr Prime Minister, then sitting here, what I had to say about these matters and these demands. In an arrogant way, Mr. Prime Minister was not even worthy of reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u218	Now that concern and discontent are well mirrored there — it is enough to circulate, today, around this Parliament — what does the Minister of Internal Administration say? First of all, he says that discontent is not with the Government Programme. Well, you're right about that. In fact, it is not possible to be unhappy with a nullity and, in this matter, the Government Programme is zero. It's a nullity. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Second, he says that he will finally pay for what the courts had already ordered to pay. Here we will be to see, in the State Budget. Third, it says that an assault on a police officer is more serious because it is an assault on the State. The concern is good for you, but what is the consequence? It should be remembered that only until June of this year were 391 elements of the PSP, 238 of which in Lisbon ; of the GNR, last year, were 220. If in Portugal we have a systematic problem of offending those who exercise authority, either on the streets or in schools—and therefore the CDS presented a project on school violence— obviously there has to be a political response. Today, we will enter the Bureau of a project which aims to aggravate the criminal framework in crimes committed against elements of the security forces. On the other hand, if you assault a police officer it is to attack the state, as Mr Minister says, I ask: to ignore, years after time, the fair demands of agents and security forces is what? It is, of course, to call into question the state and freedom of all of us, and that is what this government has done. The role of those who protect us and recognize risk situations, as Parliament has already done in the past, must be dignified by establishing the risk allowance. Let's propose it, too, today. And if Mr Prime Minister wants to increase the minimum wage, because, quite well, he starts by fairly increasing the wages of women and men who guarantee our protection and security day after day.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u219	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u220	I shall conclude by saying that if the government says one thing and the security forces say another, the responsibility of knowing, of seeing and accompanying Parliament is to go to the field. We will therefore propose that this Parliament be a working group that goes to the field, that knows and values the work of those who risk their lives every day to protect us all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u221	Mr Telmo Correia, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u222	Mr. President, individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u223	Mr Pedro Rodrigues has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u224	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this matter to plenary and on the fact that you have denounced an exercise of propaganda. Today we realize that while the government is advertising, the leftmost leftmost is a new exercise, which is to know where we were last summer. But we're already used to these left exercises. I therefore welcome you for denouncing this constant propaganda exercise that the Government and the Socialist Party have also done in the field of internal security. He even reminded me, when he resorted to one of the slogans of an ancient demonstration, the « O Cabrite, look at this, as you walk on propaganda we will continue on this». The truth is, Mr President, that the government has been spreading success in terms of internal security. But I ask: how can we consider that we are successful in terms of internal security, when we continue to have teams closed at night because of the lack of operational ones? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u225	How can we continue to consider that we are successful in internal policy, when it is the operators who, by their own means, have to buy equipment and material essential for their function?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u226	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we continue to consider that there is success in internal security policy, when we continue to see a gradual de-investment, the operational deficit — only in the GNR is at home of the 5000 — and constantly the budget appropriations captivated and restricted investment?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u228	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u229	Mr Telmo Correia, how can we consider that we are successful in terms of internal security, when, even half a dozen years ago — three or four years ago — the victims of fires have been totally unprotected,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u230	... without an effective response from the State and the civil protection forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u231	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u232	So, Mr Telmo Correia, the very simple question that I would like to ask you is the following: from your point of view, how can we continue to deceive the Portuguese, deceiving them with the flag of the propaganda that we have greater and better internal security, when, successively, Budgeting behind Budget, what we see is a progressive disinvestment in the security forces and their operations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u233	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u234	Mr President, Mr Pedro Rodrigues, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question. Secondly, in agreement, I note that you have put your finger on the wound. And the wound is this, a government based on the global numbers of crime to say that we are a safe country, although, in my opinion, one cannot and should not ignore certain specific crimes that are growing, such as: homicides, which grow exponentially, and many of them, as we know, linked to family issues or domestic violence themselves; assaults; and violence in school, which seems particularly important to me. Violence in school is a crime that has increased and is something that should concern our country, because, in our view, besides having no support and investment, we actually have a crisis of authority, and whoever exercises authority functions — it may be a teacher, it may be a continuous, it may be a fireman, as we have seen recently in Borba, it may be an agent of the security forces — it is not respected. And not only is it not respected as you do not feel the necessary support from the political power. That is why we propose valorization, so today we put concrete proposals on the table and therefore I also suggest that the Assembly of the Republic do its work. The honourable Member has already had a lot of political experience — I remember him on another occasion, having returned to Parliament now, and well, and I must tell him that in the past four years, from the Bella Vista team in the port, to the Special Police Unit, here in the Help, we have systematically heard that « our conditions are deplorable», « rain inside», « dropped a part of the ceiling», with the government always saying the opposite or saying what we heard today, i.e. « now we will do» and « for the coming year everything will be solved». We've heard this for four years, so I think it's time we go to the ground to see what's missing. Are the ballistic vests, in fact, out of validity or not? Are they usable or aren't they? Who actually pays the handcuffs?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u235	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u236	I'm done now, Mr. President. I think we have to do this work, we have to be concrete, because discontent is fair, it is legitimate, and obviously we need to give it a political answer. I am therefore grateful for your question, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u237	Mr Ataíde of the PS now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u238	Mr President, I welcome the House, the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech on an issue which, to me, is a mistake. Use corporate demands—and fair! — the guards and police of our security forces to back up a security speech seems to me to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u240	However, by asking the question that concerns us, it seems essential to say that we honor the police we have today, because since the adoption of the Internal Security Law there is a permanent and continuous bet on our guards and on our police officers, in a culture of citizenship and of approach to a rule of law. Not in a purely secure perspective, but in a fundamentally preventive perspective that puts the citizen as the first objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this perspective, the annual internal security reports provide the country with accounts and give us data. I would also like to draw Mr Telmo Correia's attention to the fact that the infrastructure and equipment programming law is equipped with EUR 443 million to meet many of the demands of our police and our internal security forces, because they claim not only better quality of service as their due gifts. Therefore, the Minister and the Secretary of State have already set up a programme for the negotiation and hearing of all actors, so that all aspects relating to their status and to the fair claim of their rights can be taken into account and are due. But that is not all, fortunately, your claim. They also want a safer state and they want to fight for the quality of the service they provide, and in this regard we will be accompanying them. What I ask you is that you take into account these data which are provided to us repeatedly by the annual internal security reports. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u241	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u242	Mr President, Mr. João Ataíde, despite being his first intervention in Parliament, you have extensive experience, including governmentally, so I welcome your presence. Don't hurt me, but I'm starting to recognize that there was some difficulty in your question. V. Exa spoke in citizenship, in high values, in important values, but the socialist is Mr. Deputy, it is not me. I'm the non-socialist. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Sometimes I'm even almost antisocial. But that's me. And, as I know, for many years, socialism has a clear idea that, normally, when there is a serious challenge, when there is a serious uprising, when men and women who have been trained in discipline, hierarchy and obedience are at the limit of the limits and come in mass protest to the street, it is because something happens, Mr. I repeat, it's because something happens. [[Protests by PS MP João Ataíde.]] You're the socialist, I'm not! Normally, the great social movements, revolutions, contests, protests, coming from where they come from, there are no because someone did not understand things. They exist because they are senses, because they are deep and because they are true. What we need to know, honourable Member, is whether it is true that we have men and women in the security forces, for example from the north of the country, sleeping in caravans because they have no money to sleep in the vicinity of a large city like Lisbon. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u243	The value of income has nothing to do with it? Oh, my God! What's the surprise now?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u244	Is it or not true that they are paying for their own equipment? Is it not true that the House has approved the risk allowance that you have proposed but on which Minister Eduardo Cabrite has said, 'This is just a resolution from the House, I must not give it an expression', disrespecting Parliament? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u245	Is that true or not? Mr President, if all this is true, the demands are fair. But before citizenship there is democracy, and this is obviously a democratic issue, a state of democratic law. I agree with everything that he says — more citizenship, more correction, more evolution, more capacity, more training — but it is also necessary to have decent conditions for doing his work, and that is why democracy has to worry and that is what it has to demand. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u246	To make a political statement, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have come back to an issue which, not being new, unfortunately continues to be current. We are talking about asbestos, which has spent more than 20 years on the discovery of its harmful effects and after the ban on its use since 2005, is still present in our day-to-day schools, hospitals, businesses, homes. Contact with asbestos is responsible for the emergence of mesothelioma and lung cancer. According to a study by the World Health Organization, the cost of treating diseases and their costs increased with social security amounts to about EUR 1.6 million per patient. Law No. 2 / 2011 was approved with a view to establishing procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibers still present in buildings. It was thus defined that within one year, i.e. in 2012 the Government would remove all buildings containing asbestos in their construction and that subsequently it would publish a list of such sites and that within three months the Working Conditions Authority should define the places where monitoring or removal of materials containing asbestos should be carried out. Finally, the Government should establish a timetable plan for the removal of materials within three months of 2012, defining the hierarchy and priorities of the corrective actions to be promoted. After almost nine years of the approval of that Law, almost everything remains to be done. In the face of this failure, the former Government created, and well, a working group whose performance culminated in the publication of the Council of Ministers Resolution No 97 / 2017, with the objectives of updating and completing the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings where public services are provided, list, according to priority, the interventions to be carried out and find solutions for its financing and prompt execution. The resolution also states that according to the report of the asbestos working group, the number of diagnosed buildings in need of intervention amounted to 4263, that the estimated cost of interventions in these buildings would be around EUR 422 million and that the eligibility of investment by the European Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank would be verified, with up to 75 % of the total cost being the remaining funding provided by European funds and State budget funds. In summary, in February 2011 a law was passed for the removal of asbestos in public buildings, which was not met ; in 2016, the former Government constituted a working group with the aim of complying with the legislation and safeguarding the health of public officials and users of their buildings ; in 2017, the former Government concluded the evaluation of about 88 % of the buildings of the central administration, not even starting the evaluation of the buildings of the local administration, and also concluded that in the central administration there were about 1364 buildings which constitute immediate danger to the health of their workers ; in the same year the Government secured the financing of 75 % of the cost of these interventions by the European Investment Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, and that only the State budget was charged to the remaining 25 %. We are talking about a burden on the State budget of about 34 million euros to safeguard the life and health of its users and workers in the buildings considered to be priority. We ask: Is the removal of asbestos completed in these 1364 priority buildings? And in the buildings of the local administration, where do so many basic schools fit in? The diagnosis was completed in 2017, as recommended by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers? What is the timing of the interventions? How many buildings are involved in public health? We don't know. by the way, no one knows. The numbers disclosed by the SOS Asbesto platform point to the existence of 3730 public buildings where there is no need to intervene. Does this mean that, between 2017 and 2019, even with 75% of the State's guaranteed extra budget funding, the government only removed asbestos in 367 priority buildings? Oh, my God! Is it true that the government has only ensured public health in 27 % of priority intervention buildings in the last two years? It is that, using the average incidence rates of mesothelioma and lung cancer in asbestos contact environments, we are talking about the life of about 200 people in Portugal — who work in central government buildings — who may have these diseases and even die. If the health of these people is not sufficient, we point out that the costs resulting from their treatment and social security benefits will exceed EUR 250 million. to the State budget, to avoid this scenario, it is sufficient to support EUR 105 million for the total elimination of asbestos in the public buildings of the central government. It is only EUR 105 million, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to save life and avoid this disease to about 200 people, as well as to avoid costs to the state over EUR 250 million. Alongside this, there is the question of asbestos in private buildings. Although Law No 63 / 2018 is already in force and a recommendation has been adopted for the Government to prepare a study aimed at creating incentives for removal of asbestos in private facilities, nothing has been done, leaving the citizens to their fate. Finally, we also draw attention to the need for the Government to ensure the existence of means of supervision to ensure that the transport and final destination of asbestos-containing waste is carried out without any threat to public health. It is not by chance that we do this: we have become aware, through the social communication, that this is not guaranteed. We therefore want to draw attention to the landing of non-hazardous waste and fibrosis in Valongo, which operates under the protests of the population and of the Authority itself. It is a landfill where several fires have already occurred. A landfill that burns isn't a landfill, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a waste. It is urgent to monitor the conditions of operation of this asbestos reception site and others such as this one, as well as the public disclosure of the results of this inspection. The public health of the population of Valongo cannot be a secret kept by the private company that exploits this place. It is important to remember, because it seems that some have forgotten it, that the right to health is for everyone and it is up to the State to ensure that it is done. Thus, there would no longer be asbestos buildings in Portugal and we would certainly not be importing asbestos waste to land in places without conditions for this effect, with damage to the health of all of us and with significant environmental impacts. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u248	In order to make requests for clarification, six were registered. Members, to whom Mrs Cristina Rodrigues will respond in sets of three. You have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, we thank the NAP for bringing to this debate the question of asbestos. As you know yesterday, the PSD Parliamentary Group urgently asked to hear the Minister because we are very concerned about what is going on in our streets, in our schools and in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u251	Of all the history and listing you have made, there have been some references you would like to add, although I do not know if the 2 minutes I have will be sufficient to account for everything this House has already done to try to resolve this issue. As to: Law No 2 / 2011 ; Ordinance No 40 / 2014 ; a list made in 2014, which did not quote ; Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 170 / 2016 ; Article 164. the Law No 42 / 2016 ; the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 97 / 2017 ; the National Reform Programme ; the Asbestos Removal Programme, which was reassessed in 2017 and 2018. There is an incredible amount — I repeat, unbelievable — of legislative production in this House to solve this problem. Do you know what's missing? We need to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u252	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u253	We need to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u254	Problem solved missing! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u255	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, former Member of the NAP, have proposed to make another plan in committee. Our question is this: would it not be more logical to call upon the responsibility of those who have it and demand a point of view before making another national plan?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u257	Would it not be more logical to call the Minister on our Commission? Would it not be more logical to force you to say what is the point of the situation? It wouldn't be more logical to ask the Prime Minister why did I say in 2016 that everything was going to be completed in 2018 and isn't it? It would not be more logical to ask what is this 2018 / 2020 program, that no one knows what it is, no one knows how it was done and no one knows how they will fulfill it? Dear Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, we thank you for your intervention and accompany your concern. The next question remains: would it not be more logical to ask our government to do what it has to do? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u258	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u259	Mr President, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, asbestos and her presence in public buildings, such as schools, hospitals and other public services, is one of the major concerns of the Left Block. Asbestos, as you know, is cancer and also causes respiratory diseases. We are therefore faced with a risk to the health of students, patients themselves and other public service professionals. Your removal is urgent. For this reason, the Left Block today presented a bill — which contains two proposals — which aims to speed up this process and make it more transparent. The first proposal of the bill we presented is to update the list of buildings with asbestos. It is well known — in fact, the government admitted - two years ago - that the listing of buildings with asbestos was made in an incomplete way, as it was verified in most cases if the buildings had fibrosis and no other materials that could have asbestos were verified. Therefore, the Left Block proposes that an update be made and that this list be completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u260	It's done! It was done by Jorge Moreira da Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u261	The second proposal contained in our bill is that the timetable for removal works becomes public. Unfortunately, we have already asked for it and they have told us that it is not public. It is essential that professionals and users of public services can know when they start and finish the asbestos removal works of these buildings. It is a matter of confidence in public services, a question of confidence in the State and also a question of confidence in public health preserved by the State. I have two questions to ask the honourable Member. First: does it agree with our proposal? Secondly, given some non-compliance and the lack of information on the part of the Government, do you not think that the time for recommendations to the Government has ended and that we are now in the time when Parliament itself has to legislate and make binding measures essential for the transparency of the process and for the removal of asbestos in public services, particularly in schools, hospitals, what is an essential measure for public health in the country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u262	For a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Pires of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, the NAP is bringing us a matter today, although it is not new, in which the PS attaches the greatest importance. In fact, let me tell you that it was the governments of the Socialist Party that took a proactive stance on asbestos in public buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u264	It's a lie! Portaria n.o 40 / 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u265	Madam Member, do you know what the PSD government did when it was obliged to comply with a law on the removal of asbestos from public buildings? It's zero, zero, zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] He didn't comply with the law, he didn't listen to the authorities, he didn't meet the deadlines. You pushed the problem with the belly successively!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u266	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u267	It has simply returned to minimal services and let me say VV. For example, very badly done minimum services. Despite the incompetence of the PSD Government at the meeting of the Environment Committee yesterday, Mrs Filipa Roseta said that she was very concerned about the subject and that urgent action was needed. Well, I want to say to the PSD: welcome to the debate on removal of asbestos! Welcome to the debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u268	Welcome? Oh, my God! What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been necessary to wait for a new Government of the Socialist Party to see this matter again as a serious problem for public health and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u270	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u271	In 2016, the PS Government submitted a report outlining the interventions and costs of each of them. Since then, more than 360 removal interventions have taken place. Just to have a notion, the list that the PSD presented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u272	That you've just finished!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u273	... moreover, a « list », at the time of the VV government. For example, he spoke in 3542 buildings. Already the list made by the former PS Government spoke in 6202 buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u274	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u275	That is, the PSD government has left 2660 buildings outside. You didn't see it or you didn't want to see it! I just want to say that we are aware that this is a subject on which we need to start over and do everything that the PSD has not done in its government. This doesn't happen in a simple finger burst.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u276	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u277	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, I just want to leave the guarantee that there is government and there are governments that have the concern of removing asbestos from public buildings are those of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u278	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, you have the floor to answer the requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u279	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speeches. I would like to begin by saying that, regardless of who did more or who did less for this matter, the fact is that the problem still exists today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u281	In view of this, it should also be noted that we are talking about people's lives, that between 4 and 12 % of cases of lung cancer are due to exposure to asbestos and that between 2007 and 2012 208 people died with this problem. Therefore, it is indeed urgent to move forward. As far as the PSD is concerned, of course, we believe that it is essential for the Minister's coming, so that he can be questioned on this matter. As such, we bring this matter to debate today because we think it is important to talk about it and give the motto for something to be done and resolved. With regard to the Left Block, Mr. Nelson Peralta, we have tabled a draft resolution, which has already been discussed in committee and will be voted on Friday. As mentioned above, it recommends that the list of public buildings of the central administration containing asbestos be disclosed and the timetable for its removal be disclosed, as well as for the inventory of buildings of the central administration. Obviously, this strategic plan for asbestos is urgent, as, moreover, associations have been demanding. If nothing is done, we will move forward with the presentation of a legislative initiative, as you have mentioned. Mr Hugo Pires, we agree. I am listening to the reference made by the PS, but the challenge is, indeed, that the government will present the list and the timetable. That is why we are waiting, so that there may be scrutiny and scrutiny of what has been done, or not, in recent years. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u282	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, the Greens Ecological Party has placed on the political agenda, with a high priority, the issues of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, of the danger that such a reality may constitute and also of appropriate solutions for the elimination of that risk. Asbestos is a cancer agent, which can cause diseases such as lung cancer or gastrointestinal cancer. Microfibres are deposited in the lungs, where they remain for many years, and may reveal a disease only years later, which often makes it difficult to direct association of cause/effect between inhalation of fibers, for example by professional exposure and the disease revealed. As you will know, the Greens have long been following this question of close proximity and, aware of this reality and of the need to do something to eradicate this danger, presented in the Assembly of the Republic a bill for the detection, monitoring and removal of asbestos in public buildings, which was approved and resulted in Law No. 2 / 2011 of 9 February. This Act, in addition to other details, determined the completion of a survey of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, the listing of these buildings and the disclosure thereof, as well as the realization of corrective actions, which included the removal of the material containing asbestos where the need for such intervention occurred. Today, at the Conference of Leaders, the discussion was scheduled for December 12th, of a bill aimed at amending Law No. 2 / 2011 in part concerning the timing of the removal of asbestos in public buildings, facilities and equipment. Do you not think that this project is an important contribution to responding to the problems that continue to arise in relation to asbestos issues, which do not appear only once in the Government's programme? [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u284	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodrigues, on behalf of the CDS, I am also grateful for having brought this issue to debate, which is of great relevance and which has been being dealt with in this Parliament for more than a decade. This shows well what he said: this is not a question of dispute between governments, it is not even a dispute over who did most to solve the matter; unfortunately, it is a problem of inconsequentialness in solving the problem. In fact, it is even appropriate for me to speak after the Greens Ecological Party, which recalled, and well, that in 2011 the Greens presented an initiative on this issue and that a majority government at that time approved this initiative. Here we see the eccentricity that is, in today's view, a majority right-wing government adopting a Green initiative to address the problem of the environment! ...We had left governments today with the same openness to opposition initiatives and, perhaps, we could solve problems more quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u287	It may be considered that it is little, but what was done at the time was the first list with objective criteria on the reality of the presence of asbestos in public buildings in Portugal. It may be little seen today, but in 2011 there was not only no list as the problem had been identified for a long time. Now, when the Government of the Socialist Party took office and it was expected that this compliance with the problems that had been identified before, the Socialist Party, instead of doing the works, did a working group. It has therefore been able, as the honourable Member has well said, to finance the work, so that the financial impact on the State budget could not be excused for not doing so, and even 75 % of external funding had a very low level of implementation. Madam Member, the question of Valongo is very important, because these environmental liabilities that are being created only take the proportion of public knowledge...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u288	Mr President, I ask you to pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u289	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, these environmental liabilities only take the proportion of public knowledge, often when they are already in a very difficult state. Now, very close to Valongo, in São Pedro da Cova, we had a very similar situation for many years. So what I ask you is that what is happening in Valongo requires immediate clarification so that we do not have a situation similar to what happened in St. Peter of the Cova. As far as the problem is concerned, I wonder if you do not think that it is not with laws, bills or working groups that it solves, but with a requirement of everyone, a requirement of Parliament, that the Government should fulfil its mission and do what is its obligation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u290	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, for the PCP, it has long been time to resolve the problem of asbestos. Multiple were the warnings brought here, at least since 2001, but the truth is that unfortunately this is a current and present concern in the lives of many people, for still persisting fibrosis structures, many visibly degraded, at risk of release of asbestos particles, and so that means in terms of consequences for the health of those who work, study and use services where this material exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u293	At a good time, almost a decade ago, we approved the draft law of the Greens Ecological Party to proceed with the removal of asbestos in public buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u294	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u295	The government was then responsible for drawing up surveys and defining times and timetables. More than two mandates later, one more Government of the PSD and the CDS and another of the PS, the greater part of the problem remains to be resolved. In fact, it was not only for non-operation, but because both, in particular the PSD government and the CDS, have created such a situation of cuts and asphyxiation in the social functions of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u296	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u297	... that the works were usually postponed, reaching the top of having buildings in which asbestos was removed only partially, continuing exposed in other areas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u298	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u299	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u300	...and also because the PS may have made the investment that is imposed and advanced in this sense, took other options, which we all know. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u301	The CFP has asked for a new list of schools where asbestos exists for days, but it is necessary to consider the whole extent of the problem, because in fact we are talking about hundreds of distributions and services. In this particular discussion, concerning the withdrawal of asbestos, whether in the whole of the urgent and unsatisfied investments in public services, is the NAP available to accompany the CFP in the fight for political options that put the needs of the Portuguese people first? We are talking about public services that guarantee fundamental rights and this does not feel sorry for delays and delays, because what is at stake is public health and is the principle of concern and responsibility underlying it. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u302	In reply, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your speeches. Mrs Mariana Silva, thanking and accompanying her concerns, would like to point out that the approval of Law No 63 / 2018 in the previous Legislation also had a legislative initiative of the NAP on this same subject. We hoped for greater support for the removal of asbestos in private-owned buildings also to be taken into account, but unfortunately this was not possible. In fact, it is regrettable, because we are talking largely about public buildings, but we can never forget private buildings, whose accounting has not yet been made. Mr. João Almeida, the question of Valongo is elucidative of the great lack of supervision of such situations. In the area of waste, in particular, this is, unfortunately, a common situation and where there is some disorientation. Our commitment is that whenever we are aware of any situation, we will intervene either by questioning the government or by asking for explanations, moving forward with the tools available to us for that purpose. Mrs Alma Rivera, of course, we also accompany the concerns of the CFP and we will do what is at our disposal always. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u304	To give a political statement on behalf of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mechanism of tax havens is generally characterized by an extremely favourable tax regime in terms of income taxes, the absence of control of activities, the persistence of banking and commercial secrecy and the lack of transparency and the lack of information exchange. Through this mechanism, companies or people record profits not in the country where they do business and earn this money, but in tax havens, to benefit from these advantages, not being their profits subject to income taxes or their revenues taxed. It will therefore not be surprising that one of the most common forms of international tax evasion is the use of tax havens, estimating that there is a concentration of 26% of the world's wealth on these sites, which has long been realized for what they serve and who they serve. In view of these facts, it is easy to conclude that tax havens have contributed and continue to contribute, in fact, very strongly, to the immorality and fiscal injustice that is going on between us. That is why the Greens consider it unacceptable that there are absolutely untouchable areas, where financial supervision does not enter, judicial cooperation is at the door and the states themselves prefer to pretend that we are not facing a problem that needs to be resolved. However, a State cannot deal with this mechanism, which allows it not to pay taxes, to escape payment of tax obligations and to hide money. It should not deal with this especially when we know that these activities may, in most cases, be associated with unclear business, the clandestine economy, tax evasion and fraud, organized crime, money laundering and sometimes even practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug and arms business. on the other hand, we have the citizens who work, who have less income, but who contribute to the economy and the development of the country and are obliged to pay their taxes, still having very low wages and pensions. Therefore, it is not acceptable for a system to continue to perpetuate where the generality of citizens living in real tax hell and others, a few, live in tax havens, enjoying the privilege of little or nothing paying in taxes for their high incomes. Moreover, the existence of tax havens is absolutely inseparable from the worsening of social inequalities, poverty and the unsustainability of the economic model that is being installed in the world. in a rule of law, it is required that the law be equal to all and no one, no matter how much money he has, can have a different treatment. Moreover, the lack of transparency and clarity that these tax exemptions involve ultimately brings high costs to the national States, both through the flight of capital and, consequently, through the loss of tax revenue, as well as the pressure they exert on the jurisdictions, through tax competition. In fact, tax havens substantially weaken the state's financial bases and do not create wealth for the country, questioning its revenues and resources, which could otherwise be channelled to public investment in absolutely priority areas, such as public services or social policies. According to a study by the European Commission, the Portuguese—or rather, a part of some Portuguese— have diverted about EUR 50 billion to offshore between 2001 and 2016, becoming Portugal in the third country of the European Union that more wealth has transferred to tax havens. On the other hand, it is good not to forget that tax havens have also been the stage of some events, such as bankruptcy of banks or large-scale fraud. This is why it is always appropriate to remember the scandalous processes of BCP, BPP, or BPN, which initiated practices related to based companies, precisely in tax havens and whose invoice was ultimately paid by taxpayers. As we can easily see, the existence of tax havens, in addition to the injustice and immorality they carry, still have negative economic, financial, social and political consequences, which is why the Greens have always opposed this system and have always called for its end. The truth is that the United Nations and the OECD have advised, for decades, a fight against the use of tax havens, but choosing the point of the need to exchange information between tax havens and states, which, being important, does not solve the problem of the existence of tax havens itself. Therefore, by a culture of democratic responsibility, measures are needed to combat practices that continue to favour those who wish to escape their tax obligations. It is therefore imperative to walk towards the elimination of tax havens, and once and for all as a way to help to credibility of our tax system. We know that the Portuguese Government cannot impose the end of tax havens outside its borders, but we also know that we cannot wait passively for the problem to be solved. And above all, we know that the government can and should work with the other States of the European Union and its international organisations to seek measures and find solutions to end tax havens. in this sense, the Greens have today entered the Assembly of the Republic of the legislative initiative precisely with the aim of recommending that the Government take the initiative to actively engage with the other States and international organizations of which it is part, in order to find solutions for the elimination of tax havens. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u306	Mr José Luís Ferreira, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u307	I respond in sets of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u308	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr José Luís Ferreira has said, Portugal is the third most wealthy country in offshore, the European Commission told us. Only Cyprus and Malta have the highest share than Portugal and have therefore been diverted to offshore about 25 % of national GDP over the last 15 years, something like 50 billion. Incredibly, about 30 billion of these 50 000 have been transferred to offshore in the last three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u310	Alone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u311	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the mandate of the National Salvation Government of the PSD and the CDS, in troika time, when it was realized that EUR 10 billion had been transferred, « Carmo and the Trinity fell », we were faced with a national scandal. The gentlemen. Parliamentary left-wing Members, who supported the former Government, were outraged, torn clothes. But when the shift from the heritage to tax havens tripled to the amount of 30 billion, in the former Government of the Socialist Party, with the whole left to support, your silence is overwhelming. In the past, MP Mariana Mortágua even made movies for youtube. Now, not a pio! [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]] It was only 9000 million euros that were transferred to offshore recently, in 2018! What do you have to say about the 66 % increase compared to the previous triennium? Do you know the reasons? Are they acceptable? Where are the megaphones on the left of parliament? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much the Portuguese taxpayers have lost with this collaborative attitude on your part? Mr. PEV, I did not expect this intervention,... [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] ... since you were part of an episode which, in this Parliament, cannot be made clear. So I ask you how the ENP voted for a measure proposed by the CDS, which rests the territories of three tax havens such as Jersey, Isle of Man and Uruguay on the black list of offshores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u312	That's not true! That didn't work that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u313	... from which the socialist Government, through door, had withdrawn them against the opinion of the AT ( Tax and Customs Authority ) in a scandalous and shameful manner. I'll give you the answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u314	But you have to give the answer very quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u315	I will finish, Mr. President. I will give you the answer, if I do not know it, Mr President : you voted against the CDS standard and, with that vote against, you have contributed to the continuation of these territories outside the blacklist. At the time, what was worth was the position of the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u316	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u317	... for the maintenance of these territories on the black list of non-cooperating countries. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u318	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all, I would like to greet the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the topic of paradise to the debate. Tax havens are used by those who have the most and who can more to escape the payment of due taxes, resulting in large losses to the tax revenue. It is a real scandal that the Portuguese who live from their work are called upon to contribute, while the large economic groups, who get their profits here, may decide not to pay their taxes in the country and put their profits in paradises. As mentioned in its intervention, Portugal is the third country with more transfers to tax havens between 2001 and 2016, according to a recent study published by the European Commission, more than EUR 50 billion with tax revenue losses in the range of 1 % of GDP. This means that the country no longer has at its disposal billions of euros that could be invested in health, education, transport, public investment, development of the country, but instead are in the pockets of tax planning artists. Subsequent governments have diverted their eyes from the large tax evasions carried out with the use of tax havens—and here they are both PS governments and PSD and CDS—, not acting systematically to put an end to this scandal, in particular by rejecting the proposals put forward by the CFP. However, the CFP will not fail to present further proposals and to defend them. The eradication of tax havens requires extended international cooperation, including a cooperation pact for the regulation of financial markets, the taxation of financial transactions, the fight against tax evasion and evasion and the extinction of tax havens. The need for international cooperation cannot serve as an excuse for national measures not to be taken to combat tax evasion, involving tax havens and territories with more favourable tax regimes. The CFP will continue to submit proposals for the national ban on commercial relations and financial transactions with non-cooperating tax havens and for the registration of transactions involving other tax havens, by heavily charging those transactions at 90 % rates. Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u320	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u321	I am just finishing up, Mr President, by asking whether the ENP follows the PCP in these measures to end this scandal once and for all, forcing those who make profits in Portugal to pay their taxes in the country, like all Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u322	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u323	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Carlos Silva, the PSD, and Mr Duarte Alves, of the CFP, for the questions they asked me. Mr Carlos Silva, I care that it is a lot or a little what has been transferred. I don't even know if this is even due to the merit of the government. from now on, let's say it was the PSD and CDS government that didn't let the money go to the offshore. Maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u324	It was the measures we took!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u325	When he had just said that there was a lot of noise in the time of the PSD and CDS, he knew exactly what was the reason for the discussion and the noise that this generated, which had nothing to do with the volume of capital transfers. You know very well what the reason was. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] As far as the megaphones are concerned, let me say something, Mr: it cannot be said that the Greens have been silent, because today they have chosen the tax havens as the subject of their political declaration. But with regard to megaphones and your concern — which certainly also share with us — with the injustice that represents the existence of tax havens, we will see where Mr Carlos Silva and the PSD Members will put the megaphone when it comes to voting the project that The Greens presented today in the Assembly of the Republic, just so that the Government can carefully, both in the European Commission and in the organizations it is part of, in order to end this regabofe, in which some live in tax havens and the generality of people living in a real fiscal hell. Mr Duarte Alves, it is true, as I said from the rostrum, that tax havens are often linked to the clandestine economy and even to other far more serious issues. But, of course, this Green proposal does not invalidate or replaces the fight or fight that must be made in relation to the tax evasion and fraud that we have before us and that must be stopped. It will therefore also have the contribution of the Greens Ecological Party to this debate, as well as to promoting the fight against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u326	Sir, you have two more questions. To that end, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u327	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would first of all like to thank you for bringing this issue to debate. In fact, it is a very important issue and that all parliamentary elections and all the scrutiny of Portuguese society are welcome. It is important that we also have the notion that the important mechanisms for combating tax evasion are often underlying the use of these tax havens. Our system — and it has already been discussed here today on the so-called blacklists — is one of the widest in Europe in terms of the so-called blacklists, has proved to be inefficient. And it has proved inefficient because better than blacklists is cooperation. In fact, we have indicators—in particular reports already this year—extremely concerts that show us that where there has been cooperation has allowed a set of situations to be corrected. With regard to certain cases, and since the efficiency of the PSD on this matter has been mentioned, I would like to remind you here of the famous case of former Secretary of State Paul Núncio,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u328	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u329	... that, despite the fact that there was an order that required the communication of transfers to offshore by the Tax Authority, ignored it for a long time and it was necessary for the Government of the Socialist Party, at the time through Secretary of State Fernando Rocha Andrade, to restore this situation. So, we're talking about transparency. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] And we're talking because it became clear that it was on the initiative of the Socialist Party Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u330	All right! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u331	... that something was corrected that you, very calmly, sought not to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, to finish, because I am at the end of my time, I just wanted to draw attention to two cases, which have been much talked about. As to the case of the Panama Papers, for example, I wanted to say that by virtue of cooperation in Portugal there have already been 111 cases that have been subject to proceedings and, as a result of these processes, there has been a collection in IRS of more than 4 million and 600 thousand euros. In the case of Malta Files, another case also known, we have already had about 100 cases raised, with a voluntary regularisation of EUR 31 million, which involved about EUR 10 million in taxes and interest. So the efficiency of tax administration, the effectiveness of this government is proven by the numbers we have here. So, on our part, there will be all the availability...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u332	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u333	... to find solutions, together with the ENP and the other parties, to enable the government to improve its effectiveness in preventing and combating fraud and tax evasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u334	For the last requests for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u335	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the data indicate that over recent years a substantial part of the wealth produced in Portugal or due to national citizens has been placed in offshore or privileged tax territories. There are different reasons why that is so. This was possible because it was facilitated by the law and promoted by the bank, and we do not forget Operation Hurricane or how the banks were promoting tax escape schemes; it was possible to escape precisely from taxes, and we did not forget how Mr. Horta and Costa were in this Parliament explaining how he used an offshore network to hide a commission that he received in the process of buying submarines, in a PSD and CDS government. We also know how banks used offshores for all kinds of falcatrues, for fraud, for tax leaks. The cases of BES, BPN, BCP, are here to tell us all these stories. But we know more than that. We know how over the years tax crimes that were possible for the use of offshore were bleached and forgiven by tax amnesties: two in the time of the PS, and most of all in the time of the PSD and the CDS, in their last government. Mr. Carlos Silva, the Government of National Punishment was the salvation of Ricardo Salgado in his alleged fiscal crimes, which were cleaned and bleached by a fiscal amnesty approved by the PSD and the CDS, among others. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u336	I haven't heard anything in the last four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u337	Offshores represent what is worse in the economy and in the world. It's the inequalities. It's the crime, it's the tax evasion. But let us not deceive ourselves: there is only because all over the world and all over Europe there are governments that protect them, including within the European Union. The worst offshores exist only because they operate on the network and use territories that are not offshore, have privileged taxes and laws that facilitate triangulation: Malta, Ireland, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Switzerland,... [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] ... Madeira International Business Centre (CINM).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u338	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u339	The Madeira International Business Centre has improved legislation but is being investigated by the European Commission. Therefore, the question I leave to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, and I conclude, Mr. President, is if you do not think that we should amend the law of the International Centre for Trade in Madeira so that tax privileges are associated with job creation and wealth creation in the autonomous region. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u340	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u341	Mr President, I would like to thank the clarification requests made by Mr Fernando Anastácio and Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Mr Fernando Anastácio, in fact also in Portugal, there have been some attempts to modify the legal framework for tax havens. But they have not, they have not, nor can they have great success because, above all, what is needed, I believe, is to put an end to tax havens. The issue is important, as you say, not only because tax havens promote tax injustice and immorality, but above all because they discredit the democratic rule of law, which is even harmful to the State itself, which loses revenue due to the flight of capital that could be invested at the level of public services where so much lack is involved. Then, Mr President, it is true that the issue of listings is a lateral aspect, let us say so. It was important that there should be cooperation with the aim of putting an end to tax havens. Cooperation on information exchange is important, but what was really important was to end tax havens. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in fact, there is a part of the wealth that is transferred to these tax havens and we all know why. The first objective will be, exactly, to escape the tax, i.e., not to pay taxes. Often, it is money whose origin is doubtful and, in some cases, its origin is linked to much more complicated things such as armament and arms business. But it is also true what it refers to: everything happens because the law permits it and also because it has been greatly promoted by the bank. We all know that this is true and that there is responsible for this, as has also been mentioned. On the amendment of the law to the International Centre for Madeira Affairs, when the proposal appears - I think it has not yet been tabled - we will have the opportunity to speak on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u342	For a political statement, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is signed on 25 November. According to Eurostat, 80 % of human trafficking victims are women. According to the Fundamental Rights Agency, one in three women in the European Union is a victim of gender-based violence. Around the world, about 12 million girls under the age of 18 are forced into forced marriages every year. At least 200 million women and girls are subjected to this heinous crime of female genital mutilation that prevents them, almost at birth, from being happy. We cannot forget the cross-sectionality, the combination of multiple discrimination, gender, ethnicity and class, which exposes even more some women to these abuses and violence. We are faced with one of the most serious violations of human rights, which results from an imbalance in power between men and women and which is socially rooted and even naturalized as if it were a normal behaviour. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is urgent to overthrow stereotypes that still persist. Many have already been overthrown, but others have resisted and have prevented proper application of the laws which are obviously in line with the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe, which Portugal has signed, signed and ratified in the front line. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the fighting, and have been many over 20 years of public policy to combat a scourge that cannot leave anyone quiet, it is true that women continue, unfortunately and horrendously, still being murdered today. This year 31 women have already been murdered and some 27 000 complain every year, I repeat, every year, to the security forces. I mean, there's an occurrence every three hours. During the course of this plenary session, a woman filed complaints at her team or at her GNR position. We are facing terrorism—we cannot be afraid of words—we are facing domestic terrorism and a huge social catastrophe that in the last 15 years has already killed more than 500 women and left more than 1,000 children and young orphans. Movements of solidarity and collective indignation are increasingly being heard. I cannot fail to mention the open letters signed by women, but also by men, in an intransigent appeal and zero tolerance to this crime that kills. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This crime requires an integrated and unequivocal fight and that we never make this reality a political weapon. It is therefore important that the broad political consensus, transversal to all governments, which has allowed us to build what we have today, that is, a demanding and rigorous legislative framework in combating this gender-based violence, remains. The Government has put prevention and combating gender-based violence as one of its major political priorities. A day of mourning for victims of domestic violence...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u344	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u345	All right, sir! That's right: very good. The Government has put this area, the fight against domestic violence, as a political priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u346	It's just blah, blah, blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u347	One day of mourning for victims of domestic violence this year was a symbolic initiative at the highest level of the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u348	Only symbolic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u349	... which constituted a single prevention alert which did more than many important campaigns on this subject have been promoted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the National Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence is in force within the framework of the National Strategy Portugal plus Equal. New care structures, emergency reception responses were created and more investment was made in electronic surveillance and teleassisted. We have a network of victim support rooms in the security forces. Programs were created for aggressors, training modules and good practice manuals, in protocol between the IGC (Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality), the SEJ (Secretary of State of Justice) and the Advocates' Order, and projects for the empowerment and empowerment of victims are under way in conjunction with solidarity municipalities. Last year, education for citizenship was implemented at all levels of education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, there are very important instruments resulting from international and national recommendations, such as the GREVIO of the Council of Europe ( Expert Group on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence), the Retrospective Analysis Team on Domestic Violence and the latest report of June of the Multidisciplinary Technical Commission, led by the Councillor Rui do Carmo, which tell us the precise path we have to go and which had not existed before. Special emphasis deserves the need to improve victim protection mechanisms within 72 hours following the submission of the complaint. This is where we find ourselves, I know today, some failures that can deprotect the victims. This is where we need to act with efficiency gains. But we also highlight the creation by the PGR ( Attorney General's Office of the Republic ) of specialized, integrated sections for domestic violence that will start operating in January, as pilot experience, in districts of Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u350	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u351	This is therefore an innovative project that will be promoted by the PGR. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that gender-based violence cannot be fatal. There are already identified problems, and there are motions for resolutions to address shortcomings. We must end the culture of impunity to aggression, promote training to change the very excusing judicial culture of this kind of aggression.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u352	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u353	We have to take to schools, as will happen this year in the Youth Parliament, projects to prevent violence in love...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u354	Mrs. Member, you have already exceeded the time you had in more than one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u355	Mr President, even to end, we cannot trivialize, by paraphrasing Hannah Arendt, gender-based violence so that gender-based violence is not fatal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u356	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u357	Mr President, I will respond first to three and then to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u358	All right. For clarifications, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u359	Mr President, starting exactly where Mrs Elza Pais has finished, we should not trivialize the fight against domestic violence. I must confess that I was surprised to see the Socialist Party make a political statement on domestic violence, precisely an area where almost everything, Mrs. Deputies, if not everything, has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u360	The government didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u361	This year, in Portugal, and the honourable Member also said so, there are already over 30 deaths due to domestic violence. These numbers, these results should make the Government and the Socialist Party feel ashamed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u362	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u363	But they don't! The Socialist Party and the Government come here to do a little more of the same, which is the escape forward and hit him with their hands in the chest, washing their hands like Pilates, as if they had no responsibilities in all that is to be done, Mrs. Deputy, and that is already identified. It was the Government of the Socialist Party that assumed, on 7 March last, that this was a priority combat and made it before all Portuguese. But with regard to this day of national mourning which Mrs Deputies referred here as a symbolic day, it was in fact only a symbolic day when numerous announcements were made, but most of them were not realized. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Member, in particular, what has been done since that day of national mourning to accelerate the fight against domestic violence. What concrete measures have been taken by the Government, Mrs Deputies, to meet this priority? For example, ladies and gentlemen, why is the extension of the programme for domestic violence aggressors in a prison context, which the honourable Member has mentioned, stopped? Why? This is when Social Integration Services say they're ready to move on. I tell you why: why there is no money for this financing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u364	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u365	I will finish, Mr. President. The restructuring of the support line was announced here on March 7 as an innovative measure and which is used to ensure specialized support during the 24 hours of its operation, and it is necessary only to hire professionals. Why isn't it still working?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u366	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u367	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. To prioritize the fight against domestic violence is to allocate resources and resources to policies. It's not just ads that solve the problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u368	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to note the present situation of this issue, to begin by lamenting the domestic violence and the weight that remains in our society, which, in fact, should lead us to act firmly and in a manner that is proportional to the violence that each victim calls for. Here, the known figures are, in fact, particularly revealing the gravity of this scourge, which has been transversal to successive governments that have alternated in power. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a long way to go, because we continue to fail despite what has been done so far. It is our understanding that an effective response in this area will necessarily have to be made at three levels linked to each other: that of prevention, with measures to prevent this scourge; that of criminal punishment, with the implementation of measures which are simultaneously dissuasive of the phenomenon and which reflect, in some way, the judgment of widespread censorship that society feels in relation to that one; and, in parallel, because, we have no illusions, this scourge will not be eradicated from day to day, it is important to give prompt and powerful responses to the protection of victims, helping them to continue with their lives in security. But precisely because of the way in which we are still going in this area, there are a few issues that we cannot fail to raise, Mrs Deputy. It is, of course, well known that many cases of domestic violence spread over time, sometimes for years, which in fact leads to victims in various circumstances not being signaled in time, either because they do not let themselves be signaled, or because the system fails in their signaling. We therefore ask whether the Socialist Party will be available to move towards greater prevention, in particular by strengthening the means of this theme and specializing in it and for when. at the level of the punishment of the crime, knowing the dissuasive effect that the penalties comply, I also wonder whether the Socialist Party will be available to adjust the criminal framework of the crime of domestic violence, because suspended penalties do not arrive, Mrs. Deputy; the victims cry for more effective justice than effectively aggressors but also put their conduct away. Finally, at the level of support for the victims, because what we see is that we have a country at various speeds in response to those,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u370	You have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u371	I conclude now, Mr President. ... with non-existent victim support offices, either permanently closed or without means, or dependent on local goodwill, what we ask the Socialist Party is whether it will be available to build a strategy allocated to the means to begin in the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u372	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u373	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, once again I congratulate the PS Parliamentary Group on bringing this issue to political statements. I would like to say, by taking in your words, that we have 20 years of public policies, laws, various and very important instruments to promote gender equality and, in particular, to prevent and combat domestic violence, but the fact is that we are continually losing this fight year after year, because domestic violence rates and complaints do not decrease, femicides do not decrease and victims do not, on the contrary, diminish. What we need is to continue our journey with all the information we receive from the teams that have been set up, from those who work on the ground, from the reports that are produced, but we also need the investment necessary to ensure the implementation in the field of these measures and to ensure that these 20 years of public policy are realized. Speaking of this, we have a number of public policies, a number of instruments, a number of things in progress, but then these measures have no concrete results or are not implemented. More than a year ago, he spoke at the Judicial Observatory of Domestic Violence and he continues to pack up, without further progress and without any news of his development. We also know that we can act effectively only when we know reality well and the truth is that we lack a lot of information - we lack a lot of data, especially in the area of justice, not only in terms of sentences but also in terms of programmes for aggressors and protection systems for victims, women and children. So I ask: where is the judicial observatory of domestic violence that has been announced and that has been stopped? I would also like to mention...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u374	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u375	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I would also like to point out that half of the authorities do not integrate the housing support network for victims of domestic violence and, therefore, I wonder what work is being done with the authorities to become part of this network and to provide housing for victims of domestic violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u376	In reply, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u377	Mr President, there is a clear and clear difference here between Mrs Sandra Pereira's populist questions, which we have been accustomed to for a long time to this part, because it does not at least respond to the call for political consensus on this area and what it is to use domestic violence as a weapon of political shooting. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Member, it's wrong! It's bad! ...continue to be populist, because that is not our way, nor will it be! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can't help but say...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u378	What about data? Data?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u379	Would you like some data? Oh, my God! Well, any murdered woman deserves, on our part, the greatest respect and a maximum warning so that, even if we are only one, we will have no one next year. Do you know how many women were murdered in 2015? 38, Mrs. Member! So don't come with that speech that doesn't take you anywhere. Moreover, the proposals they have made are always easy and populist. With regard to Mrs Inês Real and Mrs Sandra, I welcome your questions, because they are on a constructive line, in order to ask what is done in terms of prevention. at this time, there is an education programme for citizenship, this Parliament will promote the Youth Parliament and many authorities have already included in the programme the debate on violence in courtship. It is therefore because of the prevention that behaviors change, attitudes change and values change. Prevention must become the top priority of all priorities, because changing laws is easy, but changing behaviors and values is very difficult, long years of internalization of new attitudes, respecting the other, to build affections without being dominated by gender inequalities that affect many of our relationships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u380	What about data? Data?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u381	Would you like some data? More than 550 000 euros were invested in teleassisted. Would you like more? More three shelters than in your government, plus 38 shelters, plus 100 emergency reception responses, plus 46 emergency reception response vacancies, plus 824 emergency response receptions. Would you like more numbers, Mrs. Member? I also give you other numbers: more than 248 people convicted of domestic violence. More than EUR 1 926 000 of investment in the national network to support victims of domestic violence. Therefore, the investment has been immense. You'll tell me there are failures...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u382	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u383	In conclusion, Mr President, you will say-CL to me, Member of Parliament, that there are shortcomings. Mrs. Member, yes, there are failures! They were identified by GREVIO, were identified by the team of retrospective analysis of homicide in situations of domestic violence. What do we have to do? We need to get to know each other better. That's what we're doing, let's see where the failures are, they are currently identified, and therefore the next step is to address these failures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u384	Mrs Elza Pais has two further requests for clarification, the first of which is Mrs Mariana Silva, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence has already killed more than 30 women in 2019. In addition to this frightening evidence- women, children, men, elderly, disabled people, LGBT population (Lesbics, Gays, Bisexuals, Transvestites, Transsexuals and Transgeneros) - many are those who suffer from domestic violence, most of the time, hidden between four walls. We see posters that sensitize us, telephone numbers available, currents on social networks that demonstrate indignation and solidarity for those who suffer, complaints increase and many victims gain courage to say « enough», which is positive. However, we have heard more and more stories of fear, lack of protection, of processes archived by alleged lack of evidence and without condemnation. Processes that leave the four walls and pass into the public sphere. The victim talks with the police, with the technicians, with the psychologists, with the lawyers, with social workers, with the teachers of the children, with the employer and, depending on the cases, he can see his life completely exposed on television and newspapers. I would also like to remind you that domestic violence and its harmful effects also feed on, although not only poverty, low wages, lack of rights, women's devaluation in the world of work and in life. The victims will also be victims of their denunciation, of their struggle to conquer lost freedom and society has not yet been able to find faster, more concrete and less violent solutions to protect those who are promised protection. Madam Member, it is urgent to continue to denounce so that responsible entities can act. It is necessary to require the responsible bodies to be more speedy in resolving cases, but is there sufficient means? Will this government be available to hire more technicians, psychologists and security agents, so that the answers are quick and complaints are not extended due to lack of means? And most importantly: is there any political will to give women living conditions and autonomy so that they can make their decisions without further embarrassment? [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u386	There is also a request for clarification from Mrs Alma Rivera, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u387	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, the elimination of violence against women is a subject that deserves, more than reflection and symbolic initiatives of high level, the taking of attitudes corresponding to this concern. We speak of a scourge with deep causes, but there are measures of immediate scope that must be considered in the context of a public response, articulated and decentralized to the problem of domestic violence in Portugal. For the CFP, the fight against violence against women is inseparable from the elimination of labour exploitation, precariousness, inequality, which, in themselves, feed and reproduce this violence. For women to live, work and participate in equality, to overcome prejudices and stereotypes it is necessary social justice and concrete rights. Since now, it is necessary to seriously assess the implementation of planned measures such as those resulting from the resolution of the Council of Ministers approving measures to prevent domestic violence, to evaluate programmes aimed at aggressors to combat the recurrence of violence and also to reflect on the media and news criteria of domestic violence and homicides. But for all those who are engaged in this struggle, there are still some questions and those that I would like to leave are the following: will the PS follow the CFP proposals for strengthening the financial, technical and human resources of the services responsible for the detection, signalling, referral, protection and protection of women, so that they can fully fulfil their role, particularly at the level of health centres and hospitals, schools and universities, security forces, criminal investigation police, the Public Ministry, courts and social security services? Will the PS follow the CFP proposals to ensure specialized training and means to whom it intervenes within the first 72 hours after the complaint? What measures will you take to ensure that, before and after the allocation of the victim status, there is speed in the risk assessment? In particular, who is responsible for these solutions and for these women? The view that the government has presented to us concerns us, because it is responsible...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u388	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u389	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... it is transferable to nuclear powers authorities, such as justice itself, and this is incompatible with the necessary universal, public, coherent and capable response that a problem of this gravity deserves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u390	In reply, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u391	Mr President, in response to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP and Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP, I would like to say from now on that the means are never sufficient for the needs that are presented to combat structural problems. However, much has been invested in various host structures, emergency structures, teleassistation, electronic surveillance, training. Yes, training, both security forces and judges themselves, both at the level of communities and non-governmental organizations. We defend the autonomy of the victim and in this sense have been...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u392	No money!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u393	It is not without money; it is also with money, but not all autonomy passes through money, until this phenomenon is transversal to all social classes. There is no violence of the poor and no violence in the highest classes. There is a violence that becomes felt both in lower and higher classes and then there is a differentiation by type of violence, but this would take a long time to explain in this context. Domestic violence is cross-sectional and therefore we need to use strategies of victim autonomy, and they are ongoing, of empowerment of victims and of some resources allocated to some projects, as also happens. For example, today we have 18 more fires for empowerment attributed and 25 more solidarity municipalities that joined this network. Therefore, the work with the authorities is absolutely essential and some houses are being assigned for the empowerment of victims, either when they leave shelters or emergency centres, or when they urgently need such social equipment. I would also like to say that we defend the autonomy of the victim and his own empowerment, as well as all the projects carried out by non-governmental organizations throughout the national territory. Today, we have a network of non-governmental organizations that reaches all corners of the country and that did not exist a few years ago. So it's 20 years, ladies and gentlemen! We have to be realistic and honest: no, it's not all done, because if everything was done, we wouldn't be talking about this either. I also say that it will not be all done, no matter how much other means are allocated to this cause in the coming years, because the root of the problem is structural: it is in the head, in the values of gender inequality that enter into relationships between people, and they do not change. It is also at the level of operator values in the total, judicial and not only system, which are still very oriented to devalue this type of aggression. So here we also have a culture of impunity that needs to be removed through training, obviously specific and surgical, such as those that are being done. In fact, in the previous legislation, in this House, a law that obliges the registration of training in gender-based violence, was passed in the Centre of Judicial Studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u394	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u395	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the questions, which make contributions to an extremely difficult strategy, strategy that certainly needs all of us to deal with this difficult phenomenon of domestic, structural and persistent violence, which fights with laws, but also with a change of values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u396	We also have a political statement. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much to this House for letting us speak today, on an exceptional basis. It seems strange in the House of Democracy, but so it is. Today, when we are only a few hours away from the greatest manifestations of this house, some prefer to talk about asbestos and other tax havens. Some still prefer to talk about anything less than what's going to happen tomorrow in front of this house. A huge shadow hovers over us and the huge shadow is this: we have a large left majority and the government, while approving the increase in travel expenses, 116 million, which increases the expenses of the cabinets by 71 million, is the same thing that leaves the Garcia de Orta Hospital closed, leaves the Coimbra hospital degraded and leaves our health in the dire state in which it is found. Even yesterday, we learned that they postponed a consultation with a man over 90 years of age. Imagine: a 90-year-old man with a late consultation! And laugh, as if it were not too serious a human life at risk, when money is spent on travel and vital subsidies paid to criminals convicted by the courts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They are concerned about the infiltration of the arrival in demonstrations. They shouldn't be! They should be concerned about the state to which our security forces arrived, the state to which the forces to defend us, whether private security or public security. We have had here in this House — and so today we have asked to speak — a Prime Minister who lied to the Portuguese. He said, and I quote: "Polices don't have to buy equipment for themselves. Mr. André Ventura, change informer! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Here are the bills that tens of police officers have brought to us, with the purchase of items and material paid from their purse and which will still be handed over to those gentlemen who are there, of the social communication, for due publication. They're here! They come from all over the country and should be ashamed of any democracy. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the documents he mentioned.]] There are invoices of handcuffs, vests and everything else Mr. Prime Minister said that there was no and that was not in our House. Shame, Prime Minister! Shame, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration! The Socialist Party said: we honor our police; the Communist Party said: the police deserve respect for us, but they join in the same sentence the words « abuse» and « supervision». Always the same story we're used to! Tomorrow, we will have one of the biggest demonstrations in front of this House, to which we will associate without fear, without trouble, without fear of looking back. That is how, when values are right and we are on the right side of history and not on the side of those who hide the truth. This same truth that today will circulate throughout the press and throughout the Internet. But what could we expect from this shadow that torments us in Portugal? The same one says that it will not increase taxes, knowing that the enclavement will kill the lease market in Portugal ; the same one that says it will fight the precarious when they exist in the office of the Prime Minister himself. Imagine, at the Prime Minister's own office! There is no other solution! A huge shadow hovers over this country and it is with a huge shadow of concern that the Portuguese look at this House today. A majority of the left laughs, devalues and says: we are mostly, we will continue to send. Perhaps sooner than they think, perhaps sooner than they expect, the Portuguese people are called to the polls, again, to put an end to the shame that has occurred today in this House. Don't ask questions, apologize for what happened here. That's what we expected from you today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-20.u398	Mr President, in the part which concerns me, there was no welcome from the President so that I could speak. You have the right, like all the sole representatives of parties, to speak three times on three agendas like this one, in which there are political statements. So I don't understand why you made that reference. In fact, any of the other only representatives of parties could have used the word today and only didn't do it because they didn't want it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't think there are any questions. [[Pause.]] We have thus reached the end of this plenary session. The next session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. with a thematic debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on digital transition. Thank you very much and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
