ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we enter today's agenda, which consists exclusively of a marking of the CDS-PP on the theme "In defence of taxpayers against the abuses of the Tax Authority", I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Resolution Nos 95 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for the Establishment of a Ligation and Partnership Office of the Organization in Lisbon, signed in Rome on 4 December 2018, which falls to 2. the Commission, 96 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Convention on the Status of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, National Representatives and International Personnel, signed in Ottawa on 20 September 1951 between the Portuguese Republic and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, on the Statute of the NATO Information and Communications Agency in the Portuguese Republic, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the participation in local elections of nationals of each of the States resident in the territory of the other, signed in Lisbon on 12 June 2019, which falls to 2. the Commission. I also refer to Law Projects Nos 1233 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access to law and courts, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code, establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Alter the legal regime of the inventory process by strengthening the general control powers of the judge, which falls to 1. the Commission. The following legislative initiatives have also been introduced into the Bureau: Parliamentary assessment No 146 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 63 / 2019 of 16 May, which establishes the legal regime of the institutions concerned with scientific research and development ; Draft Resolution No 2209 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of safeguard measures for the populations of seahorses in the Formosa River, which falls to 7. the Commission ; and Draft Deliberation No 26 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin today's agenda, which corresponds to a CDS-PP marking, on the theme "In defence of taxpayers against the abuses of the Tax Authority ", with the intervention of Mrs Cecilia Meireles. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relationship between taxpayers and tax administration has never been easy and certainly never was free of conflict. But in recent weeks, we have seen a role of events and news about these events that have exceeded all limits, not only those of proportionality, but also those of common sense and reasonableness. It started with the news—in fact, then confirmed—that stop operations were being carried out, not to deal with road safety but rather to collect tax debts, in an operation that would have been baptized of ‘Action on Wheels’ and in which 20 elements of the AT ( Tax and Customs Authority) and 10 GNR military members would have participated. During this action, the authorities would cross car registrations with the tax owners’ situation, ‘inviting’ — to use an euphemism — citizens with debts to pay these values; if they did not, the GNR and the AT would be in a position to worsen the cars. Now, knowing us, as we know, the agility with which the tax records debts and the difficulty with which it then hesitates to record both its payment and its claim, it is very easy to perceive the complete abuse and disproportionateness of this act, and the enormous injustices and even absurdities to which it can lead. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Later, there were reports of planning actions of tax administration in marriages, which penetrates in search of charges, and then it was reported that tax, more precisely in Porto, had a secret team to monitor and photograph taxpayers suspected of tax crimes, i.e. surveillance, follow-up and collection of photographic material related to external signs of wealth. This action would be carried out without written service orders, with evidence collection procedures outside the scope of investigation proceedings opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office and without delegation of specific competences for these acts. There is one thing I want to make clear: the CDS strongly and resolutely defends the fight against fraud and tax evasion. But what we cannot accept, because it is completely unacceptable, is that, in every citizen, the tax administration sees only a presumed mellitating, suspected of not paying their taxes and knows that there are more crimes. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Especially a citizen and a taxpayer in relation to whom tax administration has only powers, while the citizen has only duties. These actions are abusive, unacceptable and disproportionate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u6	More: they call into question the trust that must exist between the state and the citizens. The relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration must be rebalanced, creating very clear rules for tax performance to be proportionate, fair and sensible. Faced with these situations and, above all, with the news of these situations, the government has, in some cases, ordered to cancel them and well—and, in others, to open audits. So far, however, the Government has failed to give the most basic explanations. First, he did not explain what kind of actions the tax administration has carried out and if there are more actions of this nature, or of a similar nature, to take place in the country outside. Second, he has not yet been able to explain, after all, who knew of these actions and who ordered them. Thirdly, he has not yet explained something which is also very basic and which is this: if the Government, if Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs knew nothing, nothing ordered and of nothing realized until it was reported in the newspapers, after all, that means that the tax administration is in self-management? And how long will he be in self-management?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u8	We already knew that this government was responsible for the greatest tax burden in recent decades; we are now beginning to understand the methods it has used to get there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u10	As never before did the tax administration or the government explain why they decided to impose the obligation to deliver the SAF-T ( Standard Audit File for Tax Purposes ) of companies, which means that companies have to transfer to the tax administration all their total and comprehensive databases, with all their accounting records. It is a true big brother tax, passing the tax to have the right to know, about the companies, information that in some cases the shareholders may not have. And this without any suspicion of non-compliance by any of these taxpayers—is a generic obligation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as always, the CDS does not just identify the problems, it is here, above all, to solve them and to propose solutions. We start from a very clear principle: the abuses of AT must be prohibited, they must be prevented, because they disproportionately call into question the daily lives of people and businesses. And above all, because the State has to behave as a good person, precisely in order to be able to demand that every citizen and each taxpayer also do so and be fulfilling. First of all, we propose that the tax administration should not be able to do any trouble while claiming or challenging deadlines are taking place. In other words, tax administration often claims that there is a debt when the taxpayer has already paid it (has happened) or when the taxpayer considers that there is no and somehow wants to claim or challenge it. There should be no trouble as long as this deadline for complaint or challenge is still under way. Secondly, we also believe that AT penhoras should not be disproportionate. In other words, the value of the asset that is weighed cannot disproportionately exceed the value of the debt. If, for example, we are talking about real estate, we want to ban penhoras whose tax assets are more than three times higher than the value of debt. Thirdly, it does not make sense to burden vehicles essential to the professional and family life of the taxpayer. But it doesn't make sense to prevent its use. For this reason, in the event of a car crash, the taxpayer and the company will remain faithful to the vehicle, and may continue to use it as long as the debt is being discussed. Fourthly, already several times, and has been recurrent, we have proposed an electronic mechanism that avoids simultaneous balances of several bank accounts of the taxpayer, as soon as the amount captured in an account is sufficient to pay the amount in debt, interest and costs. It does not make sense that the same debt, with its interest and costs, is weighed in four and five bank accounts at the same time. Finally, as long as it is not possible to continue to be the famous current account—as in fact, it is still not, despite the many and many promises of this government—that is, while it is not possible for the taxpayer to use claims on the State to pay his taxes, then we want to prevent AT from doing the same thing, i.e. to penalise VAT refunds or customer credits, when the legality of the settlement of the tax that gave rise to the debt is still being discussed, i.e. when debt is not yet true. These are the measures the CDS proposes and will include in its electoral programme. They are clear and sound rules that restore the basic principle of trust between tax administration and the contributing citizen. We know that they do not replace a tax administration that acts reasonably and proportionately and that they again have a guardianship that is not limited to saying that things did not go well, towing news without further explanations and, above all, without more action. This, unfortunately, will not be achieved by law or by legislative amendments, but can be achieved with a clear signal. These amendments and these measures we propose are a clear sign that there is an alternative, which is to re-establish a relationship of trust and respect between tax administration and taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u11	Five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask the honourable Member how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u12	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u13	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u14	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, no one disagrees that the State must have an efficient and active tax machine in order to combat tax fraud and promote equality between citizens. The PSD defends a State that guarantees fair distribution of charges and that it does not demean itself before the scourge of the parallel economy. Having said this, I think we can safely state that, in the previous legislation, significant steps have been taken to achieve this end, either with the creation of the Unit of Great Contributors (UGC ), or with e-factory, among other procedures that have been created. However, the State must act in respect for the dignity of citizens, without persecution and strict respect for the principle of proportionality, which is not true when we watch almost caricature episodes, such as those that have been reported over the past few weeks. These are undesirable episodes, but above all, they are dangerous abuses, with a persecution, and they call into question a relationship of trust and loyalty between the State and citizens. And it does not cease to be, at least, sdruish that the Government, which above all the Public Administration, when questioned on this matter, should say that it does not know, that it does not know and that it commands to ascertain, not establishing a framework in which these actions are carried out. We already know that there was a plan of activities and that there was a framework and that, either in this plan of activities or in this framework, actions were planned with external visibility. Now, that better actions with external visibility may exist that these penetrate-marriage or these operations stop, these last-minute raids, which leave the citizens completely unprotected, at the mercy of the State, which assumes certain privileges that should not be seen by them. But this is a feeling that is not new and the whole relationship that this government created with taxpayers is marked by this disloyalty, and it is marked by this disloyalty when we have the greatest tax burden. And what bed does the government do? Do not take it, hide it, use indirect taxes, anesthetizing people. People, many careless observers, do not know that today, in fuel taxes, for example, pay more 0, 14 €/ litre, in gas oil, and 0, 08 €/litre in gasoline. This, when the Government comes to the Assembly of the Republic, I beg you that it has fulfilled its promise of fiscal neutrality. Now, what we have is a government that does everything the opposite: roll, roll, roll, hide, conceal, take this out of people's eyes, anesthetizing them and making them not see what is in everybody's sight. [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] Madam Member, what you have to say and what I want to hear is this: we have the greatest tax burden, we have the public services in a state of decrepit... [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] ...and the government has done what no one has done to the National Health Service, i.e. has diminished the investment, cutting it to levels that in Portugal have never faced. How can we have confidence in a government that violates its commitments, increases the tax burden, and now pursues taxpayers without having grounds for doing so? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u15	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u16	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Cristovão Norte and saying that it is essential that we do not confuse two things. One thing is the fight against tax evasion or tax fraud, because if everyone pays what they should, it opens the way for each of us, who does, to be able to pay a little less. Only what this government has done is not. If, on the one hand, the tax burden has increased — and it has reached a record value — this means that, increasingly, a greater part of the wealth produced in Portugal goes to the state. And we now begin to realize that this is achieved not only by taxes on gas oil, whose price has increased quite sharply in this legislation, but also by abuses. What is fundamental in the relationship between the State and the citizen, the tax administration and the taxpayer is a very simple thing: the State must behave as a good person, if it wants, as we all want, that the citizen also be fulfilling. What is not possible is that the tax administration sees a presumed mixture behind each taxpayer, based on the assumption that, as a rule, citizens do not meet their tax obligations and are owed something.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u17	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u18	It is that only this presumption is that it makes a stop operation even considered to be possible to check by the registrations randomly whether the owners of the cars have tax debts or not. This is absolutely disproportionate and absurd, which leads to unthinkable situations such as those of people who have already regularized their situation or who have the tax administration to say that they should not actually have to,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u19	If you have to, go on foot!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u20	...and may complain, but that they still see their car broken down. This does not make sense, as it does not make sense, of course, that tax administration is going to photograph and follow people. This is something that has no feet or heads! These measures which the CDS points out are a signal and prevent some abuse, but there is indeed a guarantee against abuse that has to be given, and must be given by the government. Despite the CDS and the PSD's request that Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs come to explain and say not only what happened and what was reported, but what may have happened and that has not been reported—after all, when he had knowledge of these situations, what he did and how he did to prevent them—the truth is that until now we had no further explanation. And, more and more, we have a government that, when there is news that something goes less well, is quick to say "I canceled, I apologized", but then no one has the responsibility for what actually happened. If the State wants to require citizens to fulfil their tax duties, very well! But you also have to do this basic duty to explain. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u21	You now have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr Paulo Sá of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in recent decades, PS, PSD and CDS governments have opted for a fiscal policy to promote large incomes, large estates and large profits, exacerbating injustice in the distribution of national wealth. This favour was not only made by legislation, but also by combating fraud and tax evasion, which has been largely directed to small taxpayers, whether they are private or companies. We recently had an eloquent example of this option to relentlessly pursue taxpayers with small debts, which was that of the Valongo stop operation. This was a case that had broad media coverage, but many others, without this media coverage, are happening every day, reflecting the option of the current and previous governments to direct the fight against fraud and tax evasion to small taxpayers, while allowing the large debtors to escape among raindrops.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u24	Today, in the opposition, the CDS is very revolting with the abuses against small taxpayers. But this is just a manifestation of the political hypocrisy of the CDS, since its option, when it was in government, was exactly the same : to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u26	We are all very well reminded of the relentless persecution that the former PSD/CDS government has made to small taxpayers. at that time, when the State Secretary for Tax Affairs was Paulo Nuncio, of the CDS, any small tax debt led to the payroll, the car or even the house. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u27	Now too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u28	In 2014 the tax administration carried out nearly 60 000 penhors on buildings, including first houses. at that time, the CDS found it very normal that people could be cleared from their homes for the payment of small debts to the tax. When, in December 2014, the PCP presented a bill that restricted the penhoras about own and permanent dwellings, how did the PSD and CDS vote? Against! They flung the PCP proposal, allowing tax executions to continue leading to the loss of housing. But now—see! — the CDS wants to limit the burdens. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, whenever she was in the government, the option of the CDS was to crush workers, pensioners, families and small businesses with her fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u29	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u30	Now, which is in opposition, the CDS wants to present itself as the taxpayer's friendly party, but the CDS is only a friend of taxpayers who have great assets, large incomes and great profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u31	Now! That's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u32	The rest, which are the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, have always suffered when the CDS was in government. Yes, because the CDS' fiscal policy option has always been to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u33	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u34	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Paulo Sá for his questions. Your question is an interpretation that is, in fact, almost a constant in the CFP: the old theory that the fault is with the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u35	And not just! Policies and options are the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u36	Mr President, for the sake of the debate, I am not going into this debate. Do you know why, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u37	Because it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u38	Look at one thing, Mr Paulo Sá : the CFP, your party, makes this government that has been in office for almost four years. For almost four years, you have been able to make this government possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u39	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u40	So if you think that this government's fiscal policy is wrong, if you think that the biggest tax burden is always wrong, you should have thought about it before you reach this government for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u41	No, no! It was by our hand that some tax justice was introduced!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u42	The PCP is a little like the tax administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u43	It was by our hand that some tax justice was introduced!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u44	in tax administration, neither is anyone responsible for anything, we never know who gives orders and who orders actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u45	It was by our hand that ended with the PEC (special payment on account)!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u46	With the CFP we never know how the government is in power, because apparently it has been there for four years without the CFP voting. Mr President, what this government is doing is also its responsibility, because making a government viable is to be responsible for it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u47	Explain the house penhora policy there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u48	So if you disagree with this government's fiscal policy, you should have done something. If you have chosen tax proposals as less important and you have preferred to find agreement on other proposals, making them more important, this, with all honesty, is a priority problem of the CFP. But now I would leave you here with a view that, I believe, we will agree, which has to do with the obligation to deliver the SAF-T, i.e. with the obligation to deliver the accounting files of the companies to the tax administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u49	We have proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u50	I believe that the CFP will agree with us here and will have even proposals. [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] Therefore, as you see, I am sorry that in the various negotiations with the Government over these four years the CFP has never found this matter to be a priority and has never included it in its conditions to enable the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u51	Our proposals are here to solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u52	If I had, we were no longer having this discussion! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u53	How are you going to vote on the proposals? It was interesting to know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u54	That's not even discussed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u55	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u56	Mr President, I would begin by saying that the Socialist Party looks at the Government's reaction to the tax inspection actions carried out in A42, in Valongo. The government cancelled the actions, considering them disproportionate, and determined the opening of an audit to determine responsibilities and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u57	And I should be here today to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u58	I recall that the Finance Director of the Port resigned, assuming responsibility, and would also add that the Government denied that there was any secret team that was monitoring, in an unacceptable way, taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u59	If it was a secret, I could only deny it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u60	It is important to start here in order to put the points to us and restore the truth of what the government has done in this matter. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the defence of taxpayers is a permanent concern of the Socialist Party. It is a concern of the Socialist Party when it is in opposition and when it is in power. Therefore, we must not forget the one who was the behaviour of the CDS, and also the PSD, both in power and in opposition, about a matter that tells the Portuguese: a measure adopted by this parliamentary majority that aimed to protect the house of household in the tax enforcement processes. When the PS was in the opposition and the PSD and the CDS were in the government, and they were a majority in this Parliament, the Socialist Party presented three projects to prevent the tax from executing penhoras of homes of household. What did the CDS and PSD do? They voted against it! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u61	True, they voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u62	However, the PSD and the CDS moved on to the opposition, it constituted a new parliamentary majority and, on a second opportunity, already with the opposition, we presented the same project to protect the tax household. What did the CDS and PSD do? They've voted against again!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u63	It's fake! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u64	I mean, they didn't make this proposal viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u65	It's fake! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u66	What it means, Mrs Deputy, that when it was necessary to defend taxpayers, with this measure, the CDS never accompanied the projects presented by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u67	Bad conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u68	The defence of taxpayers, for the CDS, is only a matter of eve of elections. That's what's happening here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u69	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, acknowledge that the scheduling of this debate is a pain of awareness of the CDS in relation to taxpayers' defence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u70	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u71	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr João Paulo Correia, who apparently has nothing to say about the last three and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u72	I spoke of a measure which has been approved in this mandate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u73	Basically, nothing has happened in the last three and a half years. It's the old tape: it's always the fault of the previous government! [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] So let me see if I understood: there is an operation stop, performed between tax administration and GNR, to stop people and, randomly, by their registrations, to see if they have debts, to do there, immediately, car penhoras. What you have to say is that the fault lies with the previous government; you think this is reasonable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u74	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u75	And what Mr. Secretary of State has to say is that he will cancel the operation and then you will soon see who ordered it and how. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u76	I said she was disproportionate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u77	But, after all, now what does Mr. Secretary of State do? It seems that he does not know what tax administration is doing or what kind of actions he is ordering.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u78	You don't know everything, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u79	I am very grateful for that, because, curiously, I also remember that at the time of the previous government, there was nothing in the tax administration without the guardianship being obliged to know and to her all the responsibilities were met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u81	It is very curious how your point of view has changed, and it has changed radically. Mr President, I would like to say the following: first of all, in relation to your project, presented in this Parliament, on the house penitentiary of family residence, the CDS did not vote against, the CDS abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u82	But he made the proposal impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u83	And I'll explain why. Because the honourable Member has managed to create a system in which the banks move in front of the tax office in the household penitentiary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u84	Sorry about the bad payer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u85	The system does not prevent family residence from hanging out, it only prevents if it is for tax. [[PS protests.]] Secondly, honourable Member, do you know what I would like? I'd like the PS to have something to say about the last three and a half years. Since, apparently, you do not have an explanation, at least, please say whether or not you agree with these CDS measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u86	What measures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u87	...because, if we all agree, many problems can be solved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u88	They are still registered to ask for clarification. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, and Mr Bruno Dias of the PCP Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Cecilia Meireles will answer together. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecília Meireles, when I listened to her, even having the CDS leader in anticipation of this debate in press conference, we realize that she only wants to and only launch the debate on the CDS electoral programme. I understand the effort, no one was connecting much to the effect and therefore nothing better than using the space of the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the electoral programme of the CDS. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] I assume that it will be to show the government programme, because at least this was the way the CDS presented itself a few months ago, as it wants to go to elections defending a government programme. I believe that the last electoral act will not have changed that will, and so what we are discussing here is what the CDS will do when it reaches the government. But I remember what the CDS did when it got to the government. The Left Block today condemns, as it condemned in the past, the Tax Authority when it invades people's lives in an abusive way to, without any criterion and without great good sense, stop cars with the PSP (Public Security Police) and say that it either pays the debt it has to the Tax Authority or goes on foot home and is without a car. We condemn this today as we condemned in 2012 when PSD and CDS were in government. The State Secretary for Tax Affairs, who was protecting these matters, was the CDS and, however, the Tax Authority did the same. By the way, let's see what happened when the CDS was in government. We had news in 2015 of customers notified for debt penalty because they requested invoices in the restaurants they attended. And they weren't your debts, they were restaurant debts, and about that, the CDS didn't do anything. I remember, when Paulo Nuncio of the CDS was State Secretary for Tax Affairs, that the tax provided food to IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) that helped people without shelter, not because the IPSS had debts to the state, because they did not have debts to the tax, but because they had not paid in the SCUT (free tolls to users)! And that's why the CDS had taxed on behalf of private entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u90	That's fake! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u91	That's right, Mrs. Member! It has not been denied and I can prove it through the documents I have with me. If you like, I can distribute them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u92	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u93	I remember, too, again in 2015, when the tax went to a restaurant pendant four cakes, I repeat, pendant four cakes, of 30 cents each, because this restaurant had debts to the tax. He had asked for a suspension of the payment, because he thought he should pay differently, and he asked to reassess his situation, but the tax was not sensitive either to the law or to his situation. Do you know who was in the government? Oh, my God! It was a CDS! Do you know who was in front of the folder that protected the Tax Authority? It was Paulo Nuncio from the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u94	Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u95	Therefore, Mrs. Member, if you come here to tell us what the CDS will do in the government, I must say that we know that this is the time of the election campaign when the CDS wolf clothes the lamb's skin to say that he is a friend of the taxpayers, because when he gets to the government, he just doesn't carry the skin because he can't! That's the great truth. for our part, we do not deceive ourselves from the abuses of the Tax Authority and, as I said, we condemn the abuses in the present as we condemned them in the past. For this reason, in the name of humanity, in the past legislature and in this legislature, we brought the debate several proposals and some came to the law, but not with the vote of the CDS. For example, the CDS did not accompany the Left Block when it proposed, in the past and in this Legislation, that the family address should not be damaged. The family address! That it wasn't the tax to send people under the bridge! And the CDS, in its humanist aspect, voted against in general and did not vote in favour of the global final vote. Now, if this is what the CDS has to present, it is soon clear that this debate is hypocrisy and that the CDS, when it is in government, does something and, when it is in opposition, makes another completely different. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u96	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I begin by recalling a debate a few years ago, in which you also participated. in this case, it is to recall a statement from the CFP and once again state: "We do not want the paralysis and inaction of the Tax Authority due to lack of means or political will. We want there to be means to intervene, but in a pedagogical way, responsible, acting with micro and small companies and not against them. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is our position today, as it was at that time and as it has always been. This statement was made, of course, in the presentation of the CFP proposal by simplifying procedures and by reviewing the absolutely infernal process of bureaucracy, administrative costs, inspection actions, in a completely overwhelming way, in particular with small trade, restoration, about the rules of invoicing, certification, communication, etc. etc. It was an abuse all over the line. The PCP proposed solutions. The CDS and PSD dropped them and maintained the chaotic situation for these thousands of contributors. You would certainly like us to forget, but we do not forget. We also do not forget that when you were a government, you were the ones who have the least and least of those taxpayers. There are taxpayers and contributors, Your Honor! You passed VAT ( value added tax) from the restoration to the maximum rate, forced small farmers to tax themselves to sell a salsa branch, proposed a reform of the IRC ( income tax for the public) which increased the special payment on behalf of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPME ) by 75 %. at the same time, they opened the door to all kinds of tax planning pirouettes to large economic groups, within IRC. at the same time, they decreed a marriage to the rich with tax exemption to the GSPS (society managers of social participations), which led the large economic groups to pay millions of taxes, at the expense of the General Inspection of Finance, thanks to the office signed by the then Secretary of State Paul Nuncio — that you must know, if I am not mistaken! — the same as in 2012 promoted the so-called RERT III ( Special Tax Regularisation Scheme ), the greatest tax amnesty of ever hidden money abroad. What contributors do you think, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! While the CFP, both today and yesterday, continues to carry out serious, persistent work on behalf of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, achieving a reduction in the VAT of restoration, which you have increased, achieving the reduction and extinction of the CFP, which you wanted to increase to hundreds of thousands of MPMEs, by approving the proposal for the programme for deburocratization and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises—and the CDS was the only one that did not approve any of the proposed points and measures—while the CDS continues to try to mask itself on the part of the taxpayer in political propaganda and fraud operations when all life has proved to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u99	That is why I leave the question to you: is the honourable Member really sure that you want to talk about abuse and taxpayers, when your resume is as eloquent as the interests they defend? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u100	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u101	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares and Bruno Dias. Mr Bruno Dias asked if I'm sure I want to go this way. Yes, sir. I am sure that these are the interests I want to defend, the interests of taxpayers and their guarantees against tax administration. I'm sure! Absolutely! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member, apparently, and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, is that they have little certainty. I begin to find, when I hear, above all, the Left Block and the PCP, that the paternity of this government is a little like the debts of the General Deposit Box: it has no responsibility and no parents.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u102	Madam Member, this is already a case of failure in school! So, at the end of four years, you didn't learn anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u103	I would like to remind you that, despite everything, who are the parents of this government? Aren't you the gentlemen? Oh, my God! Who made this government viable? Aren't you the gentlemen? Oh, my God! Budget behind Budget, Government Programme, initial discussions, essential discussion behind essential discussion... You know how to do outdoors when you approve sympathetic measures, but then, when the measures are anti-pathic, they have nothing to do with that, and your vote is not taken into account! [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u104	And the honourable Member is still talking about political hypocrisy? Oh, my God! Oh, my lord! on the day when you stand up from this rostrum and answer for the three and a half years of your share of responsibility in government, perhaps we can talk about something. It's just that I answered by the CDS share in the governance of a country near bankruptcy! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, when he has nice measures, he puts them in an outdoor setting; when there is a demonstration against the government that you support, if necessary, he will still show up here and vote the opposite on the next day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u105	Keep running away from responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u106	Mr President, let us be decency in this matter. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] On tax administration, it is not the first time in this Parliament to act disproportionately and improperly. On that, we agree. No, it's not the first time. However, it does not seem normal or reasonable to me that, in the face of absolutely unbelievable situations of STOP operations in which random checks are made and, in the case of taxpayers having debts, there are car charges or reports of tax agents or inspectors following people to take photographs of potential suspects with external signs of wealth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u107	30 cents each!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u108	...you have nothing, but strictly nothing, you have to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u109	It's the opposite! Just listen to what's in your mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u110	It's something that doesn't seem normal or reasonable to me. If it were not the CDS — and in this case also the PSD — we would not listen in this Parliament to the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, at least give some explanation on the matter. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the simplification of procedures, I am as much as possible in favour of all simplifications of procedures, but I would like to recall the enormous complication and the real big brother tax that will be created with the obligation, which this government has instituted, of the delivery to the Standard Audit File for Tax Purposes of the complete accounting files, leading to the fact that the tax has information in its possession that often neither the shareholders of the companies themselves know. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The honourable Member may want to say that the fault lies with the previous government, but the measure is by chance from this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u111	Where are the CDS proposals about that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u112	If the PCP disagrees, fine. It is unfortunate that I have not disagreed anymore, that I have not been able to prevent the government and continue to support it anyway. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u113	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the PSD, we believe in the fair distribution and appropriate contribution to public charges. We believe that the State must act proportionately to charge each taxpayer what it must, under the penalty of the custodians, have to pay more to meet the lack of the non-compliant. But, Mr President, in the PSD, we do not want and do not accept a state that abuses, first, what it costs citizens and then how it tries to collect taxes on taxpayers. Mr President, in the last three years already after the « Cabo das Tormentas » of bankruptcy and financial emergency, we have all seen how the Portuguese have suffered with the tax monster growing, with the State charging more and more to lend back — and this is especially serious — increasingly worse service to the Portuguese. You charge more, but you're doing worse. We have all seen, and the Portuguese have suffered, not only the insatiable tax monster to throw himself furiously at the taxpayers, in a series of abusive attempts at collection, but also as the socialist power has acted so often — strong with the weak and weak with the strong. Yes, Mr. President. As I said in the PSD, we argue that everyone contributes according to their contribution capacity, as decided here by the elected representatives, and it is permissible for the State to charge those who do not want to pay, because otherwise they pay the meeters. Portugal today still has a problem, certainly excessive, of tax evasion and we therefore need a strong Tax Authority (AT ) with powers to enforce and to combat tax fraud, escape and non-compliance. Much progress has been made in these years and, today, AT is the most effective public services in Portugal and the world, because it has means, incentive mechanisms for workers and rules of access to information that enable it to carry out its work. We are proud, in the PSD, of the much that we have also contributed to this, since work, in the past decade, led by Paulo Macedo to the creation of e-factory, the extension of deadlines for the prescription of debts and anti-abuse rules. Mr President, we want a strong but not abusive Tax Authority. We do not want laws that impose unfair or abusive fiscal effort, disproportionately intrusive collection practices, or that power is strong with the weak to then be weak with the strong.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u116	Mr President, in this Parliament, by the hand of the majority of the left — PCP, Left Block and PS — when we were no longer under the spectrum of bankruptcy and emergency, socialists, bloggers and communists joined together to carry far too much the tax burden and put the Portuguese tax effort into one of the highest in Europe. The tax burden has become the highest ever and what did the Prime Minister say? He said: "All right, we don't want to go down. What does that mean for a socialist? That, when something happens, it will increase, as it has happened in the last three years. In addition to this Portuguese tax effort having increased to one of the highest in Europe, there is another particularly unjust, unjust and illegitimate fact brought by this majority of the left. While the State charges much more tax burden, it brings back the Portuguese public services increasingly worse: maximum tax burden, services and public investment at least. But if this injustice is already shocking—to charge more to return less and worse—there is another injustice that we have learned and that has become more manifest in recent times: it is that, if the tax burden increases for all Portuguese, the tax benefits, throughout this legislature, have increased much more for some. That is, everyone pays more, but some pay a lot less! [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] With this left-wing government, the amount of tax benefits in Portugal increased by EUR 2400 million, an increase of 22 % in three years. The amount of tax benefits in Portugal today is greater than the total paid revenue of IRS (tax on income of natural persons)...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u117	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u118	... and it is more than double, almost triple, of the IRC revenue (tax on the income of the public). But the Socialists also think this well, even because the State Secretary for Tax Affairs came there to say, this week, and I quote, 'We do not want to reduce tax expenditure' — tax expenditure, i.e., tax benefits. Here too, the PS, neither the tax burden nor the reduction of tax benefits for some can be expected better. Now, we, in the PSD, think and want different. We disagree with these injustices and we want the tax burden not only to increase but to decrease gradually, and the tax benefits to have a significant reduction. We need to take effective measures for this, through a significant reduction and elimination of tax benefits, whose revenue is channelled to a reduction of the general rates of IRS and IRC, complemented by a mechanism to protect families from lower stairs, in order to avoid regression. Mr President, in addition to growing how much the State charges all and how much tax-free some, the tax monster has also grown and abused the way it tries to collect. over the last few weeks, the country has been outraged by the intrusive and disproportionate actions of the Tax Authority: stop operations, wedding raids and video surveillance news to taxpayers. The country was shocked by this intrusion, but it was particularly shocked because, in the same country where the Tax Authority acted in an intrusive and disproportionate way, we had seen that the Socialist Government and Banco de Portugal have been trying to prevent transparency about the large debtors and defaulters of the General Deposit Box and several private banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u120	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u121	...that they have received and have not paid their debts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u122	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u123	...and therefore the taxpayers were called the great effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u124	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u125	Yes! in these three years, the left ones, in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into Boxes, did everything so that nothing could be known about the big debtors and non-compliances. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] Yes! The PS was the only party that was not in the solution of the approval of a law that imposes transparency on the large debtors and non-compliances. [[Mr Cristovão Norte applauds.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] Again: weak with the strong and strong with the weak is the socialist mantra! And now, by the way, the Left Government has injected more EUR 8 billion of taxpayers'money into the banks, which have added to the other EUR 8 billion that it put into the banks, the last time it was government. Mr President, tax justice today in Portugal is morbid, costly for taxpayers and unequal in the treatment of the parties and the left have decided in this legislature that the principle of the relationship between State and taxpayers should be that of distrust. Yes! They decided when they approved, without our support, the invasion of the privacy of Portuguese incomes and banking property, without any indication of non-compliance or irregularity on the part of taxpayers — which the law required before to allow all bank information of taxpayers to be known — allowing the State and the Tax Authority to access thousands and thousands of taxpayer information in the past. There are no limits to this change in the relationship between the taxpayer and the Tax Authority, now dominated by the principle of distrust. in the PSD, we want a strong Tax Authority, but also a strong defense of taxpayers. Therefore, already in this legislature, we have passed the law which obliges the State and all public entities to pay interest to taxpayers, if they have been charged taxes that are declared illegal or unconstitutional, and we have led the initiative for the transparency of the large outstanding credits. However, it is necessary to go further: to create a current account of the relationship between the State and the taxpayer, to control the rates and fees that many public entities do not stop to launch, through their transparent and comparable publication, imposing limitation and proportionality in the requirements to fight against the Tax Authority at the level of guarantees, the rules for suspension of the proceedings and the reimbursement of costs. Mr President, we do not want a state that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. in the emergency period, we showed this fairness, since someone asked, recently, about the past: we created extraordinary contributions to the energy and pharmaceutical companies and increased these contributions to the banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u127	... we have cut a lot in energy revenues, we have created special solidarity contributions for the very high-income steps in the IRS, IRC and CES (extraordinary contribution of solidarity). This is not what the Socialist Government and the left have shown: they have increased the number and value of the transfers to offshore;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u128	You only know that because they are now published, they are not hidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u129	... the majority of the left-wings joined in giving tax forgiveness of more than 220 million euros to EDP (Energy of Portugal ) and to a handful of other companies—they called it « asset revaluation», but it was a large tax stock for some, and some with great capacity; they wanted to prevent transparency about the big debtors; they talked about energy incomes, but practically they cut nothing; they increased the Portuguese tax effort to maximums forever, but they greatly increased tax benefits for some. The State, in the hands of the left, is thus weak with the strong and strong with the weak, with those Portuguese who see the Tributary Authority acting like this, while waiting and desperate for a consultation, for surgery, for a train and bus that does not arrive, while waiting and desperate for a means of civil protection that does not appear to save them, for a pension that is not granted to them, for a citizen card or passport that does not arrive. They punish, above all, the most fragile, because they are poor or because they live within the country, or both, so many times. And so, when they are called to responsibility, they say that nothing has to do with it, they never assume responsibility, even though the management of the services is the responsibility of the government. in the PSD, we know that this is not the way and that the next elections are therefore an opportunity to defeat this vision and this practice on the left, which accepts and promotes this unrestrained and illegitimate fiscal monster. It is time and we have an opportunity to opt for adequacy, justice and proportionality to defend everyone—but everyone! — taxpayers. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u130	Mr António Leitão Amaro, the Bureau records the registration of PS Mr Fernando Anastácio to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u131	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, spoke of a state that abuses, but abuse is also creating false expectations and manipulating public opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u132	It's true! You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u133	As we are in a pre-election period, it reminds me of the largest public opinion manipulation operation we had in Portugal in a pre-election period four years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u134	I thought it was in 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u135	... when you created that famous simulator that you were going to tell the Portuguese how much they would receive from reimbursement of the so-called "overtax", that when the Socialist Party arrived at the government, it came to see that it was zero. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u136	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u137	Do you remember, Mr Leitão Amaro? Don't you think this is an abuse of taxpayers, of Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u138	You don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u139	You don't remember! I know that it is difficult for us to remember and that consciousness sometimes weighs. He spoke today of increasing tax benefits. I ask you, then, specifically, about two tax benefits, if you agree that they are cut, so that there is no such increase. I ask you, in particular, whether you agree that the tax expenditure relating to the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of the first-needed goods is cut. I ask you, in particular, whether you agree that the tax deduction for each of the dependents, within IRS, is cut. It is that these two advantages, these two situations created by this government, count for the so-called « increases in tax benefits ». So, very directly, Mr, tell us if you disagree with these measures, in particular. In conclusion, let's talk about the tax monster you mentioned. Very directly, challenge - to ask any Portuguese, any man, any woman, any citizen, any taxpayer is now paying more IRS than it paid in 2015, if it is now paying more VAT than it paid in 2015, if companies now pay more IRC. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I invite you to ask this question because the answer will necessarily be to pay less IRS, less VAT and less IRC. So be clear, once and for all, what is the perspective of each of the taxpayers on your so-called "tax monster": taxpayers pay less! This is the truth and there is no more construction around the answer that allows another result on this matter. Mr Member, find me a Portuguese that now pays more IRS than when the PSD was in the government, find me a Portuguese that now pays more VAT than when the PSD was in the government, find me a company that now pays more IRC than when the PSD was in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u140	To reply, Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u141	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, asked me three questions: about false expectations, tax benefits and tax payments, telling me to ask the Portuguese. So let's talk about false expectations. at the beginning of the Legislature, my colleague Miguel Morgano told Mr. Minister of Finance: "In view of what you are doing, it is seen that the Portuguese will pay more taxes. Do not keep on seeking. ” And he warned him: “Be careful of your words! » Mr. Minister of Finance replied: « Read in my lips: Portuguese will not pay any more taxes! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u142	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u143	The truth is that the lips of the Minister of Finance have been denied by each budget implementation report, by each report of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ),... [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[They didn't, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u144	... that they say that today the Portuguese pay a lot more euros of tax than they paid before this government. [[PSD applause.]] But I want to be serious and I want to say that what counts the most is not even the euro of taxes they pay, it is the effort for the income of each family and every company, and that is measured, of course, by the tax burden. But now, too, an even more correct concept is the tax effort that compares the tax burden with GDP per capita. I remember having said here to the Minister for Finance the following : Minister, the tax burden is increasing ». And he again, with false expectations, to the good socialist, answered me: « No, it is not increasing». And every report from the INE that arrived is misleading the lips of the Minister of Finance! Therefore, the expectation, in the head of Mr Fernando Anastácio and the lips of the Minister of Finance, is made false by reality. So, honourable Member, do you not think that it is enough to deceive the Portuguese about the burden and weight of taxes that the socialists have imposed on them? [[PSD applause.]] Then the honourable Member said in a brutal confusion: "Tell me there about these tax benefits, tell me if you want to end the tax benefits ‘created by this government’...” — that was your expression —... VAT, the reduced rate on goods of first need, and a deduction in IRS covering dependents...". Mr Fernando Anastácio, let me tell you that you are distracted! Any of the two tax exemptions or benefits exist from the principle of taxation, have not now been created by a socialist government. They are from the 1980s and, let me tell you, they were created by a PSD government. As regards VAT, there is much work to be done, in reviewing several of the elements that are at some of the rates, and in my opinion any revision must always be accompanied by a mechanism which, probably within IRS, can protect families from very low income and have an impact on their IRS account. But no, it is not to end the escalation of the reduced rate, which has existed long before this socialist government. Finally, I am referring to your maximum confusion. I don't know if you were talking about that thesis of Mr Andrade's taxes paid by Martians, but the honourable Member came here to say this: « Tell me - if there are any Portuguese who pays IRS more». I ask you: what counts math is yours saying that all the Portuguese pay more IRS, but none of the Portuguese pay a little more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u145	There are more companies! There are more jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u146	Are they the Martians, or did you cheat on math? Oh, my God! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u147	How is it possible that VAT revenue has increased but that no company, no Portuguese pay more VAT? Oh, my God! Is it the Martians who pay more VAT or did you cheat on math? Oh, my God! Explain to me how it is possible for Portuguese to pay more IRC... — right now, because you have reverted the tax reform of IRC. Are you wrong about math or is IRC paid by Martians? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u148	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before starting what I wanted to say was my intervention, I take advantage to answer the question that Mr. Leitão Amaro was insistently making to the PS bench: "How do we have more IRS? Who's paying for it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, you are paying you the hundreds of thousands of Portuguese who were unemployed, who had no incomes,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that they did not pay IRS, that they did not pay contributions and that, as they did not have income, they did not make the same consumption expense. Now, however, they pay IRS, pay contributions and actually support VAT expenditure. But probably none of them will understand that it is today worse than when it was unemployed, in the time of the previous Legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate begins by being marked by a misunderstanding: from one or another isolated incident, whose development was readily shortened, and well, by the government, or from news that was readily denied—and we have no reason to think that they are more than fantasies—the CDS tries to convey the idea that tax administration is an uncontrolled body of people running around there, outside the law, violating the rights of taxpayers. Such widespread image is false, it is unfair for State servants who work in the Tax Authority ( AT ), but it is above all an unacceptable deresponsibility. Disresponsibility, because, on the overwhelming majority of occasions when citizens feel that there is an abuse of the tax machine, it is the enforcement of the law passed by this House, an application of the law made by officials obliged to strict principles of legality and the inavailability of tax credits made through largely automated systems. And it is appropriate for those who are aware of this and their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u151	Example: In 2016, couples who were late one day in delivering their IRS were confronted with the impossibility of opting for joint taxation. In many cases, this meant an increase in the IRS to be paid in thousands of euros. Did this happen by whim of officials of the Tax Authority, of their leaders or of the government? No, no, no. It occurred because an amendment to the IRS Code, promoted in 2014 by the majority PSD / CDS, thus determined it. And it is no longer because the current government has taken the initiative to change the law and this Parliament has changed the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When it feels that there are abuses, Parliament must not respond with proclamations, it must respond by legislating, and the recent past tells us that the CDS — especially when most, but also in the opposition — is prodigy in the proclamation, but is based on legislation. Let us take another example: it has already been mentioned that sometimes there is disproportionateity between the amounts in debt and the goods that are seized. It's true! But it is also true that for families who live in their own home the most valuable good, the good in which this disproportionateness will manifest itself is the house. It is therefore strange that PSD and CDS have chosen to reject all seven initiatives which in the past were presented in order to limit this penhora, which have never presented any initiative in this sense and which, in this legislature, have, in general, voted against the three bills that were to give rise to Law No. 13 / 2016, which prohibited the sale in fiscal execution of the property intended for the own and permanent housing of the debtor or his family aggregate. Law that allowed the tax enforcement processes that were in progress to comply with a law with which the CDS at the time was, by the way, comfortable. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your rebate of conscience is eight years late. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Family residence was not limited to protection against penhora. The law has always protected a part of workers' wages against the penhora, to ensure that the penhora does not question their means of subsistence. But it did not do so for category B income holders, particularly for so-called green receipt workers. It did not, but it did, by the amendment introduced in 2017 in the Civil Procedure Code, which determined the extension of the impermissibility regime to these incomes in cases where they ensure the survival of the executed. It is better to determine impermissibility, however, to avoid tax enforcement situations by facilitating taxpayers' voluntary payment of their obligations. And to facilitate this payment nothing better than allowing payment to be made in benefits, as far as the possibilities of these taxpayers are concerned and without the requirement of guarantees, because anyone unable to immediately pay the full amount of debt is also generally not in a position to provide guarantees. It was this approach — to facilitate payment of benefits without a guarantee requirement — which led to the introduction in the State budget for 2016 of a temporary measure suspending tax enforcement by accession to a plan of payments in benefits with a guarantee dispensation; that at the end of 2016 the programme of extraordinary regularisation of fiscal debts incorporates — contrary to what had happened before — a programme of payments to benefits which allowed the creation of 47,000 payment plans to be made to benefits of debts that already existed; that in the State budget for 2017, if the value of the guarantee to be released in the payment of fiscal debts to be provided; that, in the State budget for 2018, this guarantee dispensation mechanism would be extended to non-tax liabilities and that, in the State budget for 2019, the value of the guarantee to be provided in those financial plans to which guarantees are still required. In all budgets of the State of this legislature, the possibility of payment of debts to benefits without guarantee or with a lower guarantee was extended. And since we speak in guarantees, it was also this government that proposed and it was this parliamentary majority that approved the new regime of expiry of the guarantees, which means that when taxpayers get a win against the tax in the courts and the tax runs, the guarantee does not extend until the decision of the appeal, as happened until 2016. If there has already been a court that gave the taxpayer reason, it is now exempted from the costs of extending that guarantee. And since we speak in the resources of the Tax Authority, the ladies and gentlemen. Members may have already had complaints about the excessive litigation of the Tax Authority, possibly having already had complaints about cases in which they dispute the uniform case-law of the courts. Parliament has even adopted a rule in the General Tax Law, in the past legislature, which obliges the administration to review its guidelines in accordance with the jurisprudence of the higher courts. The truth is that the previous government has never given such guidance to the Tax Authority, preferring to continue to force it to fight in cases where the failure was practically right. This Government was the first to comply with that rule and give the Tributary Authority the guidance to desist from enforcement and litigation, in cases where the contested position contradicted consolidated jurisprudence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know that sometimes citizens see themselves before the tax administration in situations that we would qualify as Kafkianas, in which a small step, sometimes corresponding to a very small value, may have disproportionate consequences. For example, until a few years ago, the following could happen: someone gets a document for payment of tax debt, delays a few days and does not make the payment, goes to the multibank pay, but no longer paid 3 or 4 cents of interest, which have been won in the meantime. What happened? Then came the execution and the penhora for half a dozen interest coughs or fine. If this taxpayer had the chance to exist on 31 December, it would lose the tax benefits in IMI and in IRS for the following years, loss of benefits that would happen, in fact, with any debt of any amount that would, by chance, happen on that day. Once again, these situations are not capricious of administration. Under the principle of fiscal legality, it must be the legislator to intervene. All these situations were the subject of legislative intervention by the current parliamentary majority, intervention which determined that there was an extinction of tax enforcement in the case of such low-value interest and fines, intervention which determined that, in a particular case of exemption from IMI (municipal property tax), which is the exemption due to lack of resources in the low-value housing, would no longer be a tax benefit and therefore no longer have this restriction on tax debts. The tax benefit regime has also been changed, adding the important safeguard that they are lost only when non-compliance remains for a significant period of time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the task of reducing the costs that the fulfilment of tax obligations has for taxpayers is a task that has never been completed, which has to be continued, preventing the completion of non-compliance—we do not want to go back to the past in this respect. It is also a task that goes through simplification measures, which save people time and accelerate reimbursements, such as the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) automatically, or which prevent forgetfulness of which result in fines and tax executions, such as direct debit payment. in this task, the Socialist Party is, has been and will always be committed. It was not, however, for this task that we were called today. We have come to participate in a campaign session of the CDS for the October legislatures. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] We know that the CDS, in opposition, takes these concerns far more to the heart than when it is in the majority. It is thus likely and desirable that in October voters keep it in its current function. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u152	Mr President, two Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u153	Mr President, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u154	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, the PS government has chosen not to change the situation, which has worsened over the years, a strong fiscal policy with the weak and weak with the strong. The measures proposed by the CFP to make tax on large capital more fair, high-value heritage, large incomes continue to flout the PS's options of maintaining the blessings for those who have a lot, while maintaining high taxation on labour, on small entrepreneurs, or indirect taxes, such as VAT (value added tax), which weighs above all on the poorest. They rejected the PCP proposal for compulsory income inclusion of more than €100 000, which would end with the myriad of libertarian rates, causing high-value capital income to continue to be taxed at lower rates than those of labour income of much lower value.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u157	We continue to see large economic groups make their profits in Portugal but pay their taxes in the Netherlands. This is a shame, Mr. Deputies. at the same time that these schemes of great fraud, evasion and tax elition are allowed and go unpunished, the country has assisted abusive methods to walk after small entrepreneurs and workers. What happened in Valongo is an example of this, but there are more serious situations. See the case of the Decree-Law determining the mandatory delivery of the accounting file SAF-T (standardaudit file for tax purposes). The CFP was, in fact, the only party that presented a parliamentary opinion on the subject and now submits proposals to the Bill No 180 / XIII / 4. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u159	The mandatory delivery of this file would lead to a concentration of a large set of information, which goes far beyond what is necessary for the anticipated completion of tax obligations, which would be concentrated in a single entity, in this case the AT. The level of information that goes on in that file—details the bank accounts, price policy and discounts, who and when it has changed a particular register—is calling into question fundamental rights. There is no parallel in any country in the world. Therefore, I ask whether the PS is available to approve the PCP proposals and reverse the SAF-T delivery requirement, ensuring that this file is delivered only to AT if there is an inspection based on evidence and, yes, the SAF-T should be delivered. Mrs. Members, in this debate we cannot make an analysis of the workers of the AT. The valuation of AT workers, the rapid resolution of AT career review, the rejuvenation of frameworks, the guarantee of conditions in finance services are essential to ensure that AT fulfils its role in combating fraud and tax evasion and to ensure a tax administration close to citizens. For this reason, Mr President, and in order not to promote situations like those which the country has assisted, the Government must decide to value and guarantee the rights of workers of the Tax and Customs Authority. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u160	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Andrade, how does Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade explain to the citizens—because you did not, in fact, explain—this disproportionate amount of means to charge small debts to large debtors, such as the large bank debtors that the State had to save? Not only is the government waiting for them on the roadside, as you preferred, even, and not knowing who they are. It is that when it was debated here in the Assembly of the Republic, the law that allows to know who finally caused the problems in the bank—which we are all paying today—the Socialist Party voted against. How does Mr Deputies explain an imbalance in the face of the increasing support of this government to the bank, for example with the clearly high recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box, which allowed the bank to assume as lost several very high credits? Or how does Mr Deputies explain the imbalance in the face of those who have the means to put their money out of the country, and with this Government, their Government, several territories of the tax havens list of the Tax Authority have been removed from this list, without meeting the criteria set out in the law, in particular without the opinion of the Tax Authority? Mrs. Members, the PSD has always defended the importance of combating tax fraud and avoidance, and always respecting the proportionality of means in relation to debts. The former Government created the Big Contributors Unit to have specialized follow-up and created the Strategic Plan to Combat Tax and Tax Fraud and Evasion Fraud between 2012 and 2014. With the PSD, tax evasion has decreased, thus allowing for a fairer distribution of tax effort by citizens. But there must be a concern about balance. And now that this imbalance—I would even say abuse—of recent years, and in particular of recent months, has been nude, the government and the majority do what? They shake the water out of the hood. Nothing unpleasant is ever the responsibility of the government and the parties that support it. It's always everyone else's fault. And here's the same thing. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The honourable Member said that the Government acted promptly and thus, in a half sentence, wants to shake any responsibility for the Government and this majority. Mr Deputy, the Ministry of Finance said that the action was not centrally defined and the State Secretary for Tax Affairs announced the opening of the investigation to find out the whole framework. It is only that, after all, he already knew the framework, because these and other actions were planned in the plan of activities that was sent to the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General, and the objective was already very clear in these plans of activities. Is it not true, Mr President, that the government had every opportunity to take note of these actions before, but had no interest in knowing and did nothing? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u162	You have the floor to answer, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very concerned about the measures which have been set up in this taxpayers' guarantee legislation and I have not had any questions in this regard, and I assume that both Mrs Inês Domingos — who, in general, did not vote in favour of them — as Mr Duarte Alves — who, I believe, has even voted in favour of them — are, in general, in accordance with their merit, with the efforts that this Government has made in this matter and with the results it has achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u164	That's a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u165	On the questions raised, I begin by answering Mr Duarte Alves. Mr President, the CDS has reserved a whole afternoon to discuss proposals which it has not put forward, but in fact I am not going to discuss with you the very profound differences that exist in our conception of the tax system, nor am I going to make a discussion on the specialty, which is, in fact, scheduled, except error for the next week. There is, however, a phrase of your question that makes me very kind, when you say that this government keeps paying for work. Mr President, I should like to remind you that I am here to vote for a reduction in the IRS which has disproportionately affected income on work. So you may have forgotten yourself, but I will remind you of your merit, shared by the other Members of the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PS, when we came down — we did not keep — that tax on work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u167	Mrs Inês Domingos, I think it is funny, I confess, to the PSD discussion in this debate on transparency and about anyone who wants the data to be known or who should know them. Let me give you two examples. One of the times we spoke most about transparency in this plenary was when the PSD/CDS-PP government interrupted the healthy practice of advertising transfers to offshorers who are so concerned by Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u168	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u169	This government, by my own hand,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u170	... restored this healthy practice of transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mrs Deputy, we believe that the data should in fact be provided to those who need them to investigate, which is why it was in this legislature, with the votes of this majority, that the Public Prosecutor was allowed to access the tax data necessary for criminal investigation by himself. in the same way, already in 2010, at the initiative of this bench and a socialist government, the Public Prosecutor's Office had also been allowed access to bank data. Therefore, since the two most important measures of access to these data for criminal investigation are, for seven years, separate from the authorship of the Socialist Party, you are not in a good position to come to preach talks on transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mrs Deputies, I would like to thank you for the recognition that you have made of the enormous effort that this government has made in recapitalizing the bank because it was. It is that one of the inexhaustible failures of the previous legislation was not made this recapitalization of the bank and we arrived at the end of 2015 with the coxa economy, without access to credit,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...with the main public bank desperately in need of capitalisation, and a bank such as Banif, whose resolution had been dragged, for incomprehensible reasons, more than a year ago. That was all that was left for this government, that was all that this government had to solve in this legislature. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Thank you very much for remembering and recognizing this fact. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u171	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As evidenced, this is not a debate to really evaluate proposals, but for the CDS election campaign. from this point of view, having been presented as such, I believe that we are talking about its objectives. But I'd like to have a little more serious discussion... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... and not merely holding an election campaign debate. It seems that there is, on the part of the CDS, an idea behind this attempt to bleach, clean, to spread all its responsibility and its passage through the previous government. I believe that, from this point of view, we do not want to accept this washing of history by the CDS and the omission of its responsibilities. We can even compare the performance of the CDS in the government with what was achieved by removing the CDS from the government. Let's remember, then, what the CDS proposes for taxpayers, and that took place between 2011 and 2015. While the vast majority of taxpayers had a huge increase in taxes, through IRS, they went to close public services, such as finance services, or they saw these finance services without employees, and therefore they were not able to resort to any kind of aid, for some kind of consultation, seeing themselves increasingly away from this clarification by the State, the CDS created for the large taxpayers a special unit, which was nothing less than public consultants, paid by the State, capable of responding in time to the large taxpayers. Thus, it created a division between first-rate taxpayers, large companies, and second-party contributors, some with « greenway » for the best that the State could offer, while the others would stand back in line, with fewer public services and less capacity to respond to that relationship with the State. While creating this unit of large taxpayers for large companies, at the same time, it did segmentation in the business sector, because it did decrease IRC rates, successively, and we know that this affected the profits of large companies, which were getting bigger because they paid less and less, while still creating pressure in small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, with the costs of electricity, which, as we know — so many times we discussed it here in the Assembly of the Republic! — was a brutal weight with the increase in VAT applied by the previous Government. As the activities of the Tax Authority increased, creating huge big brothers, such as e-factory, we remind ourselves that they wanted to use the services of the Tax Authority. To do what? To collect tolls in SCUT to private entities or to go after taxpayers who had not paid the moderate rates. Now, this is the fiscal justice of the CDS, it was also that of the PSD and, therefore, we know of its insensitivity. But let's go to numbers. in the peak of the crisis, when the recession was installed in the country, when company failures occurred in catadupa, when unemployment reached values that had never reached before, we had in 2013 half a million salaries paid by the Tax Authority, by the hand of Paulo Nuncio, of the CDS-PP. In 2013 there were more than 2 million orders of penhora by the hands of Paulo Nuncio, of the CDS-PP, and these orders were increased, year after year, until they reached 3,700,000 orders of penhora by the tax, by the hands of Paulo Nuncio, of the CDS-PP. We arrived at cartoon situations, completely absurd, in which the CDS, through the Tax Authority and Paul Nuncio, who protected it, made penhoras of pastry cakes, donations to IPSS or restaurant bills! But more than reasons for gambling, there was the shocking reality of auctioning thousands of homes of deprived families on the part of the tax. Only in 2015 were sold — repeat, sold! — 2356 buildings that were family residence. Therefore, although the CDS is not now in government, because it did not continue with this plan to destroy people's lives and does not have the protection of the Tax Authority. We managed to change the law for the better. For example, we have achieved humanization to protect the plight of the household and, at the moment, the tax cannot sell the home of the family for tax debts. How did they vote for the CDS and PSD? They didn't want to know about this reality, they preferred the previous law, which would clear people. Only to be counted, and again by statistics, were more than 20 000 — I will repeat, more than 20 000 — families who have not been shot at « the eye of the street » because this parliamentary majority has changed the law that CDS and PSD have created during their government. We have achieved a reduction in taxes on people's lives — in the IRS and with the end of the overtax — which the PSD and the CDS voted against because they voted against all the State budgets. We were able to eliminate the special payment on account in the State budget. And how did they vote PSD and CDS? They voted against it again because they voted against the State budget. They did not want to lower taxes for people, for small and medium-sized enterprises, they only wanted tax for large companies. That is why, in order to escape their responsibilities and their ideological choices, they try to escape the real debate of the heart of the economy. He said the PSD, and he already told us the CDS, that we have the biggest tax burden ever. But how is it possible, then, if the VAT rate has not been changed, if the IRS rates have been reduced?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u173	Tell me how this is possible! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u174	Miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u175	I will answer: if we have more VAT revenue with the same VAT rate or even with some products to pay less VAT, the answer is because there were more transactions in the economy. And they ask: why did there be more transactions in the economy? Because there's more money in the economy. And why is there more money in the economy? Because there's more money in people's pockets, because we stopped cutting wages and pensions. And why do people have more money? Because there are more people employed and that is why the economy is growing! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But I get CDS and PSD. It is that in Excel they do not enter people, employment is not valued and that is why they carried out, in the period when they were in government, a plan to destroy the economy. It comes in the books, it is the so-called 'virtuous destruction of the economy'! Only that the virtuosity of this destruction was 'clean', it was a ratio in employment, it was a race in rights and it was the use of the State's strength to reduce the quality of life of people and their rights. That's what we don't accept!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u176	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u177	I shall conclude by saying that I would even like to discuss more, because these ideas would involve amendments either in the General Tax Law or in the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, but curiously, the CDS presents zero about this. Who can move in the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure and General Tax Law? It is the Assembly of the Republic. So what does the CDS do? It does not bring the debate to the Assembly of the Republic any projects! It's just that not one for sample, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! So if the CDS doesn't take it seriously, I think I'm exaggerating by taking this debate too seriously! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u178	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there were any doubts, my comrades' speeches in this debate made it clear what the CFP's position on what we are discussing here is. Any fiscal policy that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong is a wrong fiscal policy and a fiscal policy in which the rich and the poor pay the most is a fair and correct fiscal policy. This is the position we have, regardless of who is in government: today is the PS, before it was the PSD and the CDS and our appreciation is exactly the same, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Don't be wrong about that because you don't get to the heels of the PCP! [[CDS-PP protests.]] We have a coherent position that you cannot equal and I give you several examples. As we criticised the fact that the CDS, with the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, of the CDS, in the former Government, closed its eyes to EUR 10 billion which « were put to the fresh », in the offshores, we demand that this issue be resolved and that the numbers of the offshorers be disclosed. They are only known today because the PCP made this requirement to this PS government by the former government has hidden them. In fact, before that we had made this complaint about this concealment by the previous Government. While the CDS was grappling people's homes and closing their eyes to the large economic groups that set their seats in the Netherlands to avoid paying taxes, the CFP denounced this issue, as in this Parliament it continues to present proposals to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u181	I conclude Mr. President. If the CDS is convinced that it will now do an election campaign saying exactly the opposite of what it has been doing, hope that they will not lose due to the delay, because the PCP will expose it. The CDS, which today defends the idea of having a current account for tax purposes, voted against alongside the Socialist Party when the CFP presented this proposal in the last State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u182	Mr. João Oliveira, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u183	If you want to say something contrary to what you did today, we will not let you stay on that point. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u184	Mr Virgílio Macedo of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate it is time to reaffirm our values and principles. The relationship between the Tax Authority and taxpayers should be fair, correct and sensible. It must always be based on the principles of a rule of law, based on the assumption that both sides have rights and duties, which should never be repealed, alienated or forgotten. on the taxpayer's side, of course it is your duty to comply with your tax obligations, pay your taxes, and any practice that seeks to circumvent this payment must be strongly reprobable for all. We can never get tired of saying: running away from taxes is a crime. We must be aware that fiscal justice, often claimed by everyone, also goes through the fulfilment by all of their tax obligations and we can never forget that fiscal justice contributes decisively to the reduction of inequalities and to a fair, free and solidarity society. But taxpayers also have their rights. They are therefore entitled to be treated by the Tax and Customs Authority in an independent, equitable and transparent manner. What has happened in recent weeks with regard to the operation of the Tax Authority is a clear abuse of power, a power which should not be discretionary. The true tax draw in Valongo, in a joint operation between the Tax Authority and GNR, was clearly a disproportionate action. Today, fortunately, the Tax Authority has at its disposal tools that allow it, in agile and correct manner, to collect taxes from all the losers. There is no need for this kind of action, which only deepens the feeling of tax persecution of taxpayers. Today, we have a modern, proactive and mediated Tax Authority that allows you to keep track of taxpayers and a timely action against all those who do not comply with their tax obligations. The Tributary Authority does not thus need to use less dignified means for the entity itself, which must always be a reference point of professionalism. A word for the officials of the Tax Authority, who well deserve it: the Tax Authority has, without doubt, highly qualified human resources, strongly committed, i.e., true professionals, who, I am sure, exercise with zeal all their functions. Only with the commitment of all of them, often under poor working conditions, was it possible for our Tax Authority to modernise itself and today it is much more efficient and effective than in the past. But they also, officials of the Tax Authority, often are victims, are victims of the government's tax voracity, through the imposition of unrealistic coercive collection goals and objectives, which count for their professional evaluation, voracity to feed a growing and increasingly socialist tax monster. This pressure is sometimes unacceptable and may cause disturbances in the behaviour of the Tax Authority. In conclusion: we need a strong and independent Tax Authority, but fair to all taxpayers, without exception. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u186	Mr Nuno Sá, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Having reached the end of the debate, it is easy to conclude, with regard to the episode of Valongo, that this debate resulted in a consensus in all the interventions and by the Government, with its action at the time of these events, that there will have been some disproportionateness and an appropriateness which will not have been the best and the most correct one, which also gave rise to an audit from which the conclusions are awaited and which has already led to the resignation of the Director of Finance. Also in respect of the case of marriages there was no inspection by the Tax Authority, because immediately the Government suspended this inspection and gave orders that this should not be done. Therefore, in this case there is no difference between the different parties and the government's performance and that there must be a proportion and good sense in the operation of the AT, which is the rule of the performance of the employees of the Tax Authority, in their functions. The PSD wanted to take advantage of this debate to relate a supposed fraud of the Tax Authority, induced by the government, to increase the tax burden by saying that the Portuguese pay more taxes. It's clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who today, with this government, pay no more taxes, what is more Portuguese to pay taxes, because now they do not have to emigrate, they are not unemployed and have jobs in Portugal, with increased wages. What is more companies paying taxes, because the economy is growing, there is more investment and families and Portuguese have more living conditions and can consume more, in the good sense of this expression. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u188	The CDS-PP came to schedule this debate, which went wrong. And it went wrong because he came here with a selective memory of everything that hurt taxpayers, in the past, when he was in government. It was a bad relationship, in which it did not benefit families and citizens with its performance in the AT, that it had the guardianship. Therefore, it comes with selective memory but also with a lack of study and preparation for the debates, because it has deliberately ignored everything that the Socialist Party Government has made improvements in the relationship between the AT and the taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u190	... and improving the living conditions of Portuguese families in tax matters, our economy and, consequently, companies. But it wasn't by any chance that the CDS did this. It was simply because of incoherence, hypocrisy and to try to take advantage of, at the moment when we are on the verge of launching a campaign for the legislators — that the CDS has already begun here today — to revive the taxpayer's party. They tried here to revive the taxpayer's party in a failed staging, because when they were in the government they paid everything from wages to homes of household. Even the food and the cakes were peppered! [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u191	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. It was, in short, a missed opportunity. An opportunity lost by the PSD and an opportunity lost by the CDS-PP, because they did not present any proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u193	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u194	I'm done right now, Mr. President, in 10 seconds. Not even the availability of the Socialist Party, following the working group and studies that are made following the government's public declarations, that there are matters of competence of the Tax Authority, such as the collection of non-tax debt, in which improvements have been introduced...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u195	Mr. Deputies, it's been 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u196	I said that proposals put forward by the PSD and, above all, by the CDS-PP, which allocated this debate, zero! Not one of them was able to introduce to the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u197	With no further requests for speeches, to close the debate, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us first contextualize this debate. It is a debate at the end of a left-wing fiscal policy legislature, which is characterized by three topics: abuse, concealment and persecution. I abuse a left-wing fiscal policy that has led to the greatest tax burden of all time, and if you are the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, who spoke here, knew or wanted to distinguish the concept of tax burden from what is tax revenue, would have perceived that the justifications they gave are absolutely absurd, because they do not take it. The economic activity is weighted by the tax burden and, therefore, what happened was that the State had more money than it had produced in the country. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Conceição Bessa Ruão.]] It's a left tax policy that's hidden. He placed everything in indirect taxes, in the most silent, in those that people do not realize in their daily lives, because they receive more at the time of the month in which they get the due but pay more every day, in every transaction they make, the result of the option made in indirect taxes. More recently, the third point is persecution, a tax administration that is behind the taxpayer, often without reason, without purpose, abusing what their powers are. Of course, he abuses himself, because he has coverage to do so. Let's get to the facts. There were three actions, and not just one, in which this happened. First of all, the State no longer abuses only the fuel pump, with the ISP (oil product tax ). Now, get out of the fuel pump, where you've already abused the ISP, and go after the taxpayer, the road outside, to stop him and try to get something else, absolutely unbelievable, with operations stop that very little has to do with a democratic country. [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá.]] Secondly, the State, which treats citizens at all times in its life, is no longer content to do so anonymously. It is a question of being invited, or 'penetrating', at these moments of life, going to citizens' marriages to try to find something else to get them out at that time. Finally, a state that no longer waits for the existence of a process or, even for the existence of a suspicion about taxpayers, unstinting to photograph them and film them, will not catch anything in which he can get anything more from tax or tax. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this is the left tax policy, by the CDS today we have brought here an alternative policy in relation to what is the citizen's relationship with the taxpayer. First of all, the State cannot regret while citizens are in the process of complaining or challenging. It's a matter of equality in a relationship. If there is a right to challenge or complain, the penhora serves as pressure and is an abuse that is totally unacceptable. After that, the State cannot disproportionately regret it. For a small value, it cannot regret something with a much higher value, thus limiting the lives of taxpayers; it cannot burden vehicles which are essential for the lives of people or for the activities of their businesses; it cannot, at the same time, regret several accounts for the same amount; it cannot continue to allow the existence of a current account and use it to remain with VAT refunds or with credits that companies have on customers. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] If he is unable to create the current account, then he cannot, for himself, have privileges that the taxpayer does not have in his relationship with the State to pay his debts. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The interventions of the left-wing benches in this debate have talked a lot about electoral campaign and you can see why. You are afraid of what the debate on the next election campaign is, and this has been seen by the interventions you have made here. [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá and PCP Member João Oliveira.]] at the end of four years, they continued to speak, not from four years ago, but from eight years ago. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You think you are not going to make an election campaign about the government that is now out of office, but about the government that has been out of office for four years. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to leave you just this advice: the last time we went to the vote, the Portuguese have judged this government that you speak of and none of the left-wing benches have won the elections. That is why, perhaps, this will not be the best way to make such an assessment. But by going to the content of the left-wing interventions, and not only to the political divide, what is certain is that none of these benches have defended the abuses that the Tributary Authority has done in recent times, but no one has opposed any of the CDS proposals that Mrs Cecilia Meireles has submitted and that I have just repeated, in the same way that no one has submitted other alternatives than those presented by the CDS. Therefore, the conclusion of this debate is very simple: if the State has never had so much of what families and businesses produce and if the tax machine has never persecuted as much of the taxpayers as it is currently pursuing, it is high time to have as a priority, in tax policy, the balance of the relationship between taxpayers and tax, and once and for all that the taxpayer's defence is reduced by taxes but also by limiting tax abuses. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-19.u199	Having concluded the debate requested by the CDS-PP on the topic "in defence of taxpayers against the abuses of the Tax Authority", we have thus reached the end of the agenda. It is therefore up to me to announce the agenda for the plenary meeting on Friday, 21 June, beginning at 10 a.m. in the first point we will have the Government Question No 30 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — On general policy focused on the lack of staff in public services. of the second point is the presentation, without time allocated for discussion, of the motions for resolutions 90 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Multilateral Convention for the Implementation of Measures on Tax Conventions to Prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016, 92 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Air Services Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Korea, signed in Seoul on 25 May 2018, 93 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves Convention No 188 on work in the fisheries sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in its 96. the session, held in Geneva on 14 June 2007, and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Instrument for Amendment to the Constitution of the International Labour Organization adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 72. the session was held in Geneva on 24 June 1986. Finally, at the last point, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We'll all have a good holiday and see you Friday. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
