ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the name of good parliamentary practice, and being the majority parliamentary group in this Assembly of the Republic, I must begin the work of this new Parliament. That is why I should first of all like to welcome all Members and all Members. Members, all the electors, so that we respect the democratic intuition of the Republic and that each of us may exercise his mandate in representing those who have chosen us to be here. At the same time, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I am also very honored to appoint to preside over our work at this first session, Mr Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, who is, moreover, the President of the Assembly of the Persistent Republic and to whom I would like to take his place. [[PPS, BE, PCP, PEV and PSD Members applauded.]] [[With the consent of the Assembly, he took the presidency of the PS officer Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u2	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I would like to thank Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes for her words and for the general welcome of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask Mrs Sofia Araújo of the PS Parliamentary Group and Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group, with whom I had already negotiated, to accompany me in this first phase of the work at the Bureau. Also with the Assembly's consent, those Members occupied their seats in the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, of course, dispense with the reading of the names of the Members on the list sent by the National Elections Commission — it is published and is of general knowledge — and, therefore, we shall immediately turn to reading and then to the vote on a draft resolution, on the constitution of a possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members, signed by all parliamentary committees. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Draft Resolution No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Establishment of a Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members is as follows: « At 25 days of October 2019, the Members elected to the XIV Parliament of the Assembly of the Republic shall decide to set up an eventual Credentials Committee of the Elected Members, in accordance with the report contained in the general minutes of the National Elections Commission, which shall remain in operation until the committee responsible for this matter is established. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy shall be composed of the following Members: Members: Six members appointed by the Socialist Party : — Eurídice Pereira ; — Philip Neto Brandão ; — John Paul Correia; — Lara Martinho; — Maria da Luz Rosinha; - Pedro Delgado Alves. Five members appointed by the Social Democratic Party : — Carlos Peixoto; — Sandra Pereira; — Duarte Pacheco; — Duarte Marques; - Emilia Cerqueira. A member appointed by the Left Block : — José Manuel Pureza. A member appointed by the Portuguese Communist Party : - António Filipe. A member appointed by the Social Democratic Centre — People's Party : — Cecilia Meireles. A member designated by the Animal Persons Party Nature: - Cristina Rodrigues. A member appointed by the Green Party: - José Luís Ferreira. It is up to this Commission to elect its Bureau and, in conjunction, to appoint a rapporteur. Its purpose is to prepare a report to be submitted to the vote and approval of the plenary, containing the declaration of verification of the powers of the elected Members and thus the relevant replacements of the elected members (derived or exercising positions determining the suspension of their mandate, or the requirement of their own) by the non-elected candidates of their respective parties who follow in the order of precedence, in their circles and lists. The other facts having an impact on the verification of their powers should also appear in the report. The report concludes with a formal opinion, to be put to the vote and approval of the plenary. Do not keep on seeking. ” This draft resolution should be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u4	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this draft resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, during the morning this Commission will carry out the verification of the powers of the elected Members, after what we will meet again at 15 a.m. and then at the time of the vote for the election of the new President of the Assembly of the Republic, there will be an individual call already with the replacements made, which will basically correspond to a more accurate record of the Members who start the Legislative Session. I should like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will meet in Room 7 — Chamber of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We'll suspend the work, which will start at 3 p.m. [[It was 10 hours and 15 minutes.]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The work is reopened. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I invite Mr Rapporteur, Pedro Delgado Alves, to address the rostrum to do the favor of reading the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of the Elected Members. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, then, to read the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Members elected, which is of the following content: « 1 — on 25 days of October 2019, for 10 hours and 30 minutes, the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members met in Conference Room 7 of the Palace of Saint Benedict to carry out the verification of the powers of elected Members on 6 October 2019 for the XIV Legislative Assembly of the Republic. 2 — At the beginning of the meeting, the Commission decided to elect the Bureau of the Commission, consisting of Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS Parliamentary Group, President, and Mr Carlos Peixato, of the PS Group, and Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the BE Parliamentary Group, Vice-Presidents. 3 — The rapporteur was then appointed Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group. 4 — The procedure and other elements sent by the National Elections Commission, in particular the general minutes for the general completion of the elections to the Assembly of the Republic, included there, were found to be the formal regularity of the allocation of mandates, in accordance with Official Map No 9 -A / 2019, of the National Elections Commission, published in Diário da República, I Serie — A, No 203 — 1. the Supplement, of 22 October 2019. 5 — The Commission was of the opinion unanimously that the powers of all the Members listed therein should be judged as being verified. 6 — In the light of the applicable legal provisions and requests for replacements submitted, the Credentials Committee of the Elected Members has made the relevant replacements of the Members exercising positions determining the suspension of the mandate ( Articles 4 ). o and 20. the Statute of Members) by the non-elected candidates of the parties which follow them in the order of precedence in the lists of their electoral circles, except those who, at this date, are subject to temporary impediment or have applied for suspension: (a) Article 20. point ( a) of paragraph 1 of the Statute of the Deputies, beginning on 25 October, including: Socialist Party — PS : — Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos ( Electoral Circle of Aveiro ), replaced by Bruno Armando Aragon Henriques ; — José Fernando Gomes Mendes ( Electoral Circle of Braga ), replaced by Ana Maria Ribeiro da Silva ; — Eurico Jorge Nogueira Milk Brilliant Days ( White Castle Electoral Circle ) replaced by Joana Morgadinho Bento ; — Marta Alexandra Fartura Braga Feared by Almeida Simões ( Electoral Circle of Coimbra ), replaced by João Eduardo Dias Madeira Gouveia ; — João Albino Rainho Ataíde das Neves ( Electoral Circle of Coimbra ), replaced by Raquel de Fatima Cardoso Ferreira ; — Luís Manuel Capoulas dos Santos ( Electoral Circle of Évora ), replaced by Katia Alexandra Sousa Silva, due to the temporary impediment of Carmen Jesus Geraldo Carvalheira ; — José Apolinário Nunes Portada ( Electoral Circle of Faro ), replaced by Ana Lúcia Silva de Passos ; — Ana Manuel Jerónimo Lopes Correia Mendes Godinho, replaced by Cristina Maria Figueiredo Almeida de Sousa ; — António Luís Santos da Costa ( Electoral Circle of Lisbon ), replaced by Rita Mafalda Nobre Borges Madeira, due to the temporary impediment of Miguel Filipe Pardal Cabrita ; — Mariana Guimarães Vieira da Silva ( Lisbon Electoral Circle ), replaced by Diogo Feijó León Campos Rodrigues ; — Mário José Gomes de Freitas Centeno ( Electoral Circle of Lisbon ), replaced by João Miguel Macarico Nicolau ; — Grace Maria da Fonseca Caetano Gonçalves ( Lisbon Electoral Circle ), replaced by Alexandra Nunes Esteves Tavares de Moura ; — John Titternigton Gomes Cravinho ( Electoral Circle of Lisbon ), replaced by Fernando José dos Santos Anastácio ; — Maria de Fátima de Jesus Fonseca ( Electoral Circle of Lisbon ), replaced by Fernando Paulo Ferreira ; — Ana Sofia Pedroso Lopes Antunes ( Lisbon Electoral Circle ), replaced by Vera Lúcia Raimundo Brás dos Santos ; — João Pedro Soeiro Matos Fernandes ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), replaced by Carlos Alberto Silva Brás ; — Ana Paula Mendes Vitorino ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), replaced by Eduardo Miguel Sabino Guedes Barroco de Melo ; — José Luís Pereira Carneiro ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), replaced by Isabel Sofia Alves Andrade ; — Maria Isabel Solnado Porto Oneto ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), replaced by José Carlos Ribeiro Barbosa ; — João Veloso da Silva Torres ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), replaced by Nuno Miguel Ribeiro Coelho ; — Alexandra Ludomila Ribeiro Fernandes Leitão ( Electoral Circle of Santarém ), replaced by Manuel António dos Santos Afonso ; — Maria do Céu de Oliveira Antunes Albuquerque ( Círculo Electoral de Santarém ), replaced by Mara Lúcia Lagriminha Coelho ; — Eduardo Armenio do Nascimento Cabrita ( Setúbal Electoral Circle ), replaced by Ana Sofia Ferreira Araújo ; — João Saldanha de Azevedo Galamba ( Electoral Circle of Setúbal ), replaced by Fernando Miguel Catarino José ; — Ricardo Emanuel Martins Mourinho Félix ( Electoral Circle of Setúbal ), replaced by Clarisse Maria Guadino Veredas Campos ; — Tiago Brandão Rodrigues ( Electoral Circle of Viana do Castelo ), replaced by José Manuel Vaz Carpinteira ; — João Paulo de Loureiro Rebelo ( Electoral Circle of Viseu ), replaced by Maria da Graça Mouta Silva Reis ; — Augusto Ernesto Santos Silva ( Electoral Circle for Europe ), replaced by Paulo Porto Fernandes ; point ( d) of paragraph 1 of the Statute of Deputies, beginning on 25 October, including: Social Democratic Party — PSD : — Miguel Filipe Machado de Albuquerque ( Electoral Circle of Madeira ), replaced by Paulo Alexandre de Sousa Neves ; 7 — The Commission unanimously accepted all the substitutions in accordance with the documents submitted. 8 — Having examined the facts available, the Commission was of the opinion that the powers of the so-called substitutes should also be judged as being verified and thus legitimised for the substitutions in question. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of the Elected Members is under discussion. [[Pause.]] With no registrations, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I report that the opinion was signed by the President, Filipe Neto Brandão, and by the Vice-Presidents, Carlos Peixoto and José Manuel Pureza. It is recorded on those who have subscribed to this opinion, which was read by the Rapporteur, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, whom I thank again. We shall move on to the next item on the agenda, the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. The urn is located on the table in the center of the hall. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members will be called nominally, in the first phase, by the Secretary-General of the Bureau and, in the second stage, by the Secretary-General of the Bureau. This call, moreover, is very important, because it constitutes, for the purposes of today's meeting, the registration of presences and absences. at the end of the vote, we will suspend the sitting for 15 minutes to count the votes. The two Mrs will be polling. Members of the Bureau, and then we have to comply with the other items on the agenda. Since the ballots have already been distributed to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote for the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Secretary will do her best to initiate the call from the honourable Members. Members in alphabetical order and not by parliamentary group. Please, Mrs. Secretary. The vote was taken. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, ladies. Secretaries Sofia Araújo and Duarte Pacheco. We are thus at the end of this electoral assembly. Let's make a 15-minute break while the gentlemen. Secretaries of the Bureau shall examine the outcome. The sitting was therefore suspended. [[It was 15 hours and 50 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume our work. [[It was 16 hours and 15 minutes.]] Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the death of the ballot that he and Secretary Sofia Araújo have taken. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the text is as follows: « At the twenty-five days of October of two thousand and nine, the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic was held and the following result was reached: Voters — 230 Candidate proposed — Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues Votes « yes» — 178 White votes — 44 No votes — 8. according to the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidate is declared elected to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Duarte Pacheco — Sofia Araújo. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS (on foot), PSD, BE, PCP, PAN and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is for me the greatest honour to have been re-elected today as President of the Assembly of the Republic. I thank you for your renewed and multiplied confidence and return, seeking to continue to be the President of all Members every day. I am the third President of the Assembly of the Republic to be renewed in these functions, which both hold me responsible and pride. I hope to continue to learn from the examples of the two previous Presidents, our greeting Antonio de Almeida Santos, who unfortunately left us in the past Legislation,... [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ...and also President Jaime Gama. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I want to continue to have with the holders of other sovereign bodies, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Presidents of Superior Courts, exemplary institutional and personal relations, always defending the autonomy and constitutional powers of the Assembly of the Republic, never forgetting that in this House of Democracy we represent all Portuguese citizens. on 6 October, the Portuguese made very clear the centrality that Parliament acquired in the Portuguese Government system throughout the past legislature. New powers always bring new responsibilities, we know. Today we have 10 parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic. And with a strengthening of the government party, there is no absolute majority of one party. The Portuguese did not want absolute majority because, from my point of view, they realized in the previous legislature that they are not the only way towards political stability and they want to continue to believe that it is. They will all have to be aware of their responsibilities and of the mandate conferred on them by the Portuguese. No one should get out of the culture of dialogue, either for the approval of the laws, or in the discussion of the strategic challenges that Portugal faces. It is this openness that the Portuguese expect of the government and the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, a culture of strategic dialogue and institutional loyalty, which walks hand in hand with the culture of the scrutiny of executive action, essential to the functioning of democracy. In democracy it is as important to be in government as in opposition, and government action will be as much better as the work of scrutiny and alternative oppositions. The worst thing that could happen to Portuguese democracy was to see this work of scrutiny, which is part of parliamentary opposition, being exercised by factual or inorganic powers, of which no political alternative and no democratic benefit will ever come. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this attitude of responsibility is required by the international environment itself. We don't live alone. Portugal is a society open to the world. We will have to do our housework to address the economic and social risks of trade wars, the economic slowdown of our partners or Brexit. It will certainly be difficult for Portugal to exercise the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2021. The European Union works too often as a scapegoat of inadequacies and national options. We certainly look at what is important to change in Europe. I would say that the realization of the European Pillar of Social Rights must be increasingly a priority, because tolerance, with increasing social inequalities, is close to zero. But let us also look at the contribution the European Union has made to the peace and development of our continent. Despite inadequacies, despite signs of social distress, economic insecurity and political instability, Europe continues to be a reference to the world, in terms of social state and, in general, to the level of rights, freedoms and guarantees. But we cannot forget, on the other hand, the inadequacies and inadequacies, the deaths in the Mediterranean or in killer trucks. I read, on another day, a comment by Timothy Garton Ash, which I think is very correct and timely: "Let's not just think about what the European Union can give us, let's also think about what we can give the European Union." And what we can give are contributions to change. Above all, let us think about how the Union can evolve into a Europe of humanism, tolerance and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the year following the Presidency of the European Union, we will mark the 200 years of the adoption of the Constitution of 1822, a framework for the development of civic and political rights in Portugal, which we still owe today. this year, Portuguese democracy will be 48 years old. After 48 years of bad memory, we will have, then, 48 years of good memories, good memories that we will not cease to relive. Good memories, but political, economic, social, environmental and cultural insufficiency. There is much to be done in Portugal, and this House of Democracy will have a very important role there. Valuing historical memory is an exercise that we cannot afford to abdicate, turned to the future, but always learning from the past. Let us remember the wise words of the former President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Richard von Weizsäcker : « The story shows us what we are capable of and should not think we are today different and better». Therefore, I said, historical memory should remain as the guiding line of our attitude in the present and how we will solve our problems in the future, reaffirming values and recognizing those who, in difficult times, have led them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, among the problems that we have to solve in the present and in the future there is one that emerges in no way: the climate issue. Today there is a great consensus in Portuguese society around the urgency of combating climate change. And allow me just one more quote, because never like today's famous sentence of Albert Camus was so true: "Every generation feels condemned to redeploy the world. however, my generation knows that it will not restore the world, its task is perhaps even greater because it is to prevent the world from falling apart." That is what we talk about when we talk about the climate threat: we talk about an existential threat. It is not a matter of mere government organicism here, it is a cause that everyone is concerned about and for which we are all summoned. And here too, the Assembly of the Republic will have a word to say, at the legislative level, of course, but also in the mobilization of Portuguese society for this which is undoubtedly the great challenge of our time. I shall, at the appropriate time, take the view of the Conference of Leaders, and in dialogue with the relevant parliamentary committee, a programme of initiatives on this subject for the whole of the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to make progress in democracy. Our respect for democracy is a fundamental part of the respect we have for ourselves. Respecting the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic are imperative for all of us. We will continue to contribute to the evolution of Parliament. And here I wanted to leave here a very great thanks to the persistent Vice President, Jorge Lacão, the important role he played in the legislation that now ends. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I conclude by greeting all present: guests, journalists, parliamentary officials, making vows for these four years of personal and professional realization. To the Members of the House and to the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Ladies and gentlemen who arrive here for the first time say: be welcome and to those who have been elected again I say be well-regressed. As holders of a sovereign body, as representatives of the popular will, I can only wish all the greatest successes and greatest happinesss. The success of this legislature will certainly be the success of democracy, the success of Portugal and Portuguese. Thank you very much. [[PS (on foot), PSD, BE and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u9	Mrs. Members, speeches by the parliamentary groups follow. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to Mr President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues for his re-election. I would like here to stress the express vote you had, which well demonstrates that it was the exercise of your previous mandate, in respect for this House, in respect for democratic institutions, a path that we all recognise with great merit, always in the defence of freedom and democracy. That is what I give you as President of the Assembly of the Republic, the President of all of us, and therefore I wish you, on behalf of the Socialist Party, a good mandate in your exercise of the presidency. I would also like to tell you that you are very proud that you are the President of the Assembly of the Republic and that is why it is an honor for the Socialists who preside over this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave once again a word of thanks to all the voters who have trusted us, who have entrusted us with 230 Members, but who give us responsibility for the mandate we have to exercise, at a time of enormous challenges that our society and the world face. I therefore greet the 230 Members, also wishing them good work and that this work continues to be in the name of democracy, with the dialogue that is necessary and with respect for democratic institutions. That is why, at this moment, I would like to leave a word of appreciation and gratitude to the Members who today cease their duties, in particular to the Members of this bench and, in particular, to the Member who led this bench, Carlos César, whom I would like to thank for the great work he has done in the previous legislature, which was a difficult legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is the Mother House of Democracy and, fortunately, it has gained more importance in recent years. All who sit here have a popular mandate to honor, even those who assume little value to the role of a Member or those who come here with express intention of devaluation. It is up to all of us, every day, to defend democracy and to defend the role of Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am proud of the Socialist Members, the many who have already passed here, in this parliamentary group sitting here today, in all the Members who now start this legislature and who respect the role for which they have been elected, respect this institution and respect the role of representing those who have been entrusted to us. What is important is that the Assembly of the Republic continues, as it has always done, to defend respect for the institutions as a centre of political discussion. We all know how to continue to defend the Assembly of the Republic as the indispensable seat of democracy and the voice of whom it has entrusted. I wish everyone a good mandate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u11	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u12	Mr. President, today is the day of the feast. And it's the day of democracy. And it is the day of democracy because we are celebrating the takeover and renewal of the Assembly of the Republic by direct vote of the Portuguese. We're holding free elections. We are celebrating the significant change of the Members of this House. We are celebrating the entry of new political parties into the Assembly of the Republic. Mr President, we are celebrating democracy. And that is very important, it is essential to do this pedagogy, and to do it every day, because we run the risk of losing democracy every day. That is why it is our obligation to fight every day for more freedom and for more democracy. Mr President, our congratulations on your election. We are sure that, with independence, exemption and fairness, it will guarantee us the outcome of the work in this House, which is the Assembly of the Republic. Mr President, once again, our desire for many happinesss and we have our always frontal and loyal position to affirm our convictions. Congratulations, Mr. President, and the greatest happiness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u13	Thank you, sir. by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u14	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming you at the time of your re-election. This recognition is bound to be related to what guaranteed its mandate in the previous legislature, which was the exemption in the conduct of parliamentary work and the guarantee of respect for the fundamental values of the Republic. I believe that this is what is required of a President of the Assembly of the Republic and that is why I am now fulfilling his re-election. I also leave a note for all Members and all Members, elected and re-elected. We are all aware of what is required of us. I wanted to leave here, on behalf of the Left Block bench, the firm conviction that we will not miss any of the important calls that our country, which looks at us with hope, launches us. We know how, in the previous legislature, we were able to open windows that were said closed for the democratic choice. And we saved our democracy, our country from the claws of austerity. What was impossible, what was inevitable proved to be clearly insufficient in a democracy. And the people said they wanted more. And the people, as wise, got even more! from the side of the Left Block, we know how hard it was every week, each of the measurements, each of these achievements, but we know how they were worth it. And in this new mandate, I believe that the challenge of all and all to this legislature is the answer to a simple question: what is the design for the next four years? I think our answer is simpler and more direct. We respond « yes » to the challenge of deepening the recovery of income and rights initiated in the previous Parliament. We answer 'yes' that it is possible to have a country where the new generations have work with rights, dignity and fair wages. We say 'yes' that it is possible to have a country where public services are not always hostage to Brussels deficit targets. And so we respond « yes» to those who believe that we have started a new path in 2015. And, yes, here we are to continue. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by answering a question which we all will have before us before a new mandate, before whom you have elected us: if we want to take steps to continue in the construction of a country that is, in fact, better than what they told us that it was possible or if the last legislature was a mere parenthesis in a policy and an idea of a country that always fails its people, on the side of the Block of Left, Mr President, has here 19 Members and Members, men and women of causes who know who are here representing and who will never be misled at any time in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u15	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u16	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate you on your re-election and make vows to fully fulfil the mission on which you have been invested, to fulfil and enforce the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. As you have already mentioned in your speech, we know that the conditions under which you will exercise your second term as President of the Assembly of the Republic, being substantially different from those of the first one, will not be less demanding from the point of view of the need to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic gives concrete expression to the defence of the democratic regime, of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens, workers and the Portuguese people, rights and values that have been conquered with the April Revolution and enshrined in our Constitution. We also know that these objectives depend more on political decisions taken by the Assembly of the Republic than on the concrete exercise of the powers and responsibilities of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. however, its responsibilities are crucial for these objectives to be achieved. from the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, we have the firm conviction that the objective which is put as soon as possible is to defend what has been achieved in recent years and to deepen this path, taking further those measures that have been taken, with the perspective and conviction that it is necessary to guarantee conditions for the realization of a true patriotic and left-wing alternative policy that responds to the fundamental problems of the country. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic will continue to count on the best contribution of the CFP Parliamentary Group to achieve these objectives and for the proper functioning and dignity of political institutions, knowing that, in differences and convergences, it will continue to have the same frontality, honesty and willingness to cooperate as it has in the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u17	I now give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first speech, I would like to begin by congratulating all of you. Members who have been elected. If we are here is because each and every one of us was elected by the Portuguese and my first sign of respect and my first compliance is for them, through their representatives. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the President of the Assembly of the Republic on his election. Mr President knows that the CDS, in its previous term of office, has proved it, both at times of agreement and at times of divergence, which existed at the time of its election and the exercise of its mandate, has always had absolute frontality. He knows that he continues to rely on this frontality and on the loyalty of the CDS-PP in the procedures and institutionalism that has always characterized us. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that I have heard your words well. Mr President said very well that the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the second figure of the Portuguese State, is the President of all Members. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to remember these words throughout the day and every day to preside over the sessions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u20	Every time you do so autonomously and impartially, you can be sure that the CDS-PP will correspond to you, considering that also our President. It was this loyalty to the function that I wanted to convey to you. This would be a moment of speech, I would say, more impartial, but since several parliamentary groups have done so, I would like to say that we are also here because we know and believe in Portugal for which it is worth fighting. And surely the CDS, regardless of the number of Members in its Parliamentary Group, will be able to beat itself up for their ideas. We are here because we believe in work, merit and effort. And, yes, we want to fight against a state and a tax burden that is increasingly appropriate for this work and effort. We are here because we know that the state has to step out of the way at times when it is not necessary and when it gets in the way. But we also know that it has to be strong, exist and act in the functions that only it can perform. That is why we will fight for a country in which justice works in time and time and for a more transparent political activity like, in fact, we have already done with regard to the regulation of the lobby and the financing of the parties — just to remember two matters. Finally, we are here because we also know that society and the collective must have a word to say to protect those who need the most, the weakest and the most disadvantaged. Of course, Christian democracy will not forget them. I'm done, telling the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are often going to differ — it is normal, it is natural, it is expectable and it is good to do so — but I hope that we will always remember, in these differences and in those debates which, I am sure, will be very warm, that we have all been elected by the Portuguese, and the respect we treat one another also means the respect we have for our country and our people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u21	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by welcoming Mr President for his current mandate, but also for his work in the past Parliament, in which he knew how to dignify Parliament and the position of President of the Assembly of the Republic in a complex time and in a very demanding legislature. We therefore trust, Mr President, in your ability to fulfil another mandate in a more plural and challenging Parliament as it now presents itself. for our part, we will do in this Chamber the unbreakable defense of our ideas and our consciences and will always rely on our institutional cooperation, in respect for the principles of loyalty, frontality and honesty. We also welcome all parties that have achieved parliamentary representation and all Members of Parliament and all elected Members, wishing them the greatest successes in the exercise of the highest number of missions: representing Portuguese and Portuguese in the Assembly of the Republic. We also greet all officials and all officials of the Assembly of the Republic and we congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists working with us every day. The difficulties and problems that mark the day-to-day lives of Portuguese and Portuguese and the great challenges that arise in the 21st century place added demands for this House of Democracy. These are challenges that are particularly posed to decisions that we will be called upon to take in relation to the answers necessary for these problems to be overcome. Despite the electoral results that we have obtained and that we have a greater plurality in the Assembly of the Republic, we cannot fail to regret the rate of abstention that has been and will always be a defeat for democracy. Combating abstention should be a serious commitment in this legislature and must be accompanied by concrete measures that contribute to our understanding of why people are not voting and participating in public life. We must think about how we can re-approach the active participation of all and of all in democratic life. It is in this Chamber that the sovereign will expressed by the vote of all Portuguese and Portuguese is represented in the composition of the benches of the different political parties. from the Parliamentary Group of the NAP, now having a strengthened parliamentary representation, we will increase the contribution to guarantee more rights to all and to all who live and work in Portugal and to those who are to come. We pledge to be a beacon in the fight against poverty and social inequalities. Here we will be, with greater pride, giving voice to those who do not have it. And we will also be drivers and partners in building commitments and balances, always decisive to support the great advances of our country, whether in the ethical field, in the economy, in justice, in the climate action or in the way we relate to the other beings and to the planet. Reiterating his greeting to the President for his election, I would like to wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, good work. [[PAN and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u23	At the end of this period of intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the start of this legislature, I just wanted to leave two very short notes. The first is to welcome all Members of Parliament and all Members of the Green Party on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Members who took possession following the legislative elections of October 6, exactly with the purpose and purpose of electing 230 Members to the Assembly of the Republic, and in which it was clear that the Portuguese have a good idea of what the absolute majority represent. I greet all the Members and all the Members. Members who have taken possession for the first time, those who move from the previous legislation to the present, but also those who have returned to the convivio of parliamentary talks, hoping that we can all contribute to responding to the problems of the country, to the concerns and aspirations of the Portuguese and to ensure that our country is more socially fair and more environmentally balanced. Above all, it is important to stress the need to combat climate change or the threat they pose, underlining from now on the announcement made by the President of the Assembly of the Republic of the initiatives envisaged in the fight against climate change. I also give a word to those Members who have now ceased their duties, in particular from my bench. I refer, of course, to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who has been an tireless voice for years and years in defending environmental values, our resources and sustainable development. The second note, Mr President, is for the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party to give it a special compliment for its re-election, wishing you the greatest success and success in the performance of such demanding office. We are sure that the President of the Assembly of the Republic will continue to maintain the sense of responsibility and also of impartiality and exemption from the conduct of the work we have been used to in the previous Parliament. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that you can count on the Greens to seek to credible democratic life and to dignify the work and activity of the Assembly of the Republic, which is so important for democracy. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-25.u25	Thank you for the words of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. It is a stimulus and a great responsibility. The following shall consist of the election of the other members of the Bureau and the Management Board. For this purpose, polls will be available in room D. Maria, which after the end of the session will remain available for half an hour, long enough for all to be able to exercise their right to vote. After the polling, the gentlemen. Secretarys will publicly announce the results, but we will no longer need to meet again in plenary. Then we will quickly meet the Conference of Leaders only to discuss the debate on the Government's programme, particularly on the days when the Government proposes that the same be done. Continued good work. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 50 minutes.]]
