ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Officials and Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. We will start our plenary meeting, the first of which is an up-to-date debate required by the Greens under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the decision of the Government of the Construction of a Supplementary Airport in Montijo. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I begin by highlighting two facts. The first fact is that last July APA, a Portuguese Environmental Agency, rejected the environmental impact study presented for the construction of Montijo airport, and one of the main advanced reasons for this rejection was the lack of study on the poultry matter of the Natural Reserve of the Tagus Estuary, not only for reasons of biodiversity, which is an important component, but also for safety issues related to bird collision. Mr Minister, it happens that last Tuesday the Government signed an agreement with ANA-Aeroports of Portugal for the construction of the Montijo complementary airport. In other words, despite this history I have already mentioned, the government has come to formalize the decision on the construction of the airport and — no doubt! — without an environmental impact study and without, of course, the consequent environmental impact assessment process. There are a number of problems here, which Mr Minister will recognise if there is any seriousness on this issue, and the first of them is that environmental impact assessment is an instrument of environmental policy which is intended to support the decision to be taken. Well, Mr Minister, the environmental impact assessment is that it supports the decision, it is not the decision that conditions the environmental impact assessment. The same is to say that the decision must be taken in accordance with the environmental impact assessment and is not the environmental impact assessment that results from the decision already taken. Therefore, the government has reversed the whole process. In other words, the government is blatantly and grossly violating the objectives of an environmental impact assessment. The Government is obviously making an environmental impact assessment process a real farce, and that is absolutely unacceptable, Mr Minister! Other problems arise from here. Mr Minister, in the face of this notorious abuse by the government, came to try to quiet people, saying they did not care because the work — the work, the attention! — it would not start without an environmental impact study and that it would appear one day in the first quarter of the year. Look, Minister, the environmental impact study is not a condition for the start of the work. The study and assessment of environmental impact is decisive, I repeat, for decision-making. After Mr Minister, as is said in popular language, « put foot in the well», Mr Prime Minister came — it is true, Mr Minister! — say that if the environmental impact study does not approve the project, the airport is not done. But he added that this would be a very serious problem. In other words, the Government is clearly seeking to condition what will be the result of an environmental impact assessment, which will culminate, as we all know, with an environmental impact statement by the APA authority, and the Government is seeking to condition this structure, which depends on the Ministry of the Environment, in order to be in favour of the decision that the Government has previously taken. And we repeat that this is unacceptable, Minister! On the other hand, just as the environmental association ZERO has been defending a matter for which The Greens have associated themselves — and here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, we have had the opportunity to say — a project of this nature and with this dimension must not only be subject to an environmental impact assessment, but also to a strategic environmental assessment and, to that end, we have to endure what the law says. And, Minister, the law is not only to comply when it desires, it is to comply, in fact, and strictly with what it envisages. And the truth is that decisions on the location of large enterprises with territorial incidence, which I think is clearly the case of a new airport, are considered, in accordance with the law, a sectorial programme. Now, programs and plans with this incidence and with the actual environmental impact that we obviously find to be the case are subject to strategic environmental assessment in accordance with the law. The question that needs to be asked is why the Government is stepping up its refusal to make a strategic environmental assessment. Mr Minister, a project with this dimension, with this nature and the impact it necessarily has, must be studied in an integrated way, and on the other hand, several locations must be studied at the same study dimension. Look, Minister, with all that I have said and with all that in view of all Portuguese, it is necessary to say — and with this in conclusion — that environmental and quality of life issues have to gain another dimension in political decisions and this government, in this regard, is proving to be exactly the same as other governments that preceded it. In other words, what the Government is doing is clearly giving in to the economic interests of the concessionaire and leaving behind what is the public interest and which is supported in matters of the environmental quality and quality of life of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u3	From this moment on, Mrs Deputy, your intervention begins to cut off in the debate time of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u4	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr Minister, I leave you with a number of questions that deserve answers. We believe that the Minister has the opportunity to give these answers here and, in particular, to reverse this Government's insistence on subversion of the entire process. That is precisely the objective of the debate which the Greens have set today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u5	On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone in this Assembly of the Republic, and certainly the generality of the Portuguese, know well that the Humberto Delgado Airport currently does not have the capacity to accommodate demand growth. Since we arrived at the government that we started working on a solution to recover the delay, which has taken many decades, on an issue that began to be studied 50 years ago. We have carried out the necessary studies to conclude that the construction of Montijo’s additional airport and the expansion of Humberto Delgado Airport is the solution that responds quickly, but at the same time with the longevity needed for several decades, to the airport search needs of the region of Lisbon. The memorandum of understanding with ANA-Aeroports enabled the decision-making and enforcement process to be preceded by five years in respect of what had been negotiated by the previous Government during the privatisation of ANA. With the recent agreement, we do not only guarantee the construction of Montijo's supplementary airport, as we have made possible the start of still this year of works at Humberto Delgado Airport, which will increase its capacity by 2020, allowing the number of passengers to continue to grow sustainably. With this agreement, we ensure the duplication of the airport capacity of the Lisbon region in a solution that meets the demand needs of the next decades and we ensure that the investment is fully financed by the airport rates which will still evolve more competitively than in previous years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u7	Hasn't it ever been? Oh, my God! The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure — It is a solution that will be implemented quickly, in three to four years, and not in more than 10 years, as would happen in the case of an airport built of roots. However, the State has ensured that the concession is not prolonged or reduced the sharing of revenue with the public record, but we also ensure that no compensation will be due to the concessionaire resulting from this agreement or from the usual environmental conditions which, of course, will have to be fully met, otherwise there will not even be any airport. in this matter reality is crystalline, as I have been saying several days ago. All legal requirements — I repeat, all legal requirements — are under way and will be met in environmental, safety or other matters. Otherwise there will not even be any airport construction. We are not precipitating or failing to comply with any environmental standards or requirements, we are doing what can be done from now on to the approval, which we expect, of the declaration of environmental impact, because it is of the greatest simplicity, of the greatest evidence that, in any construction, there is always much work to be done, even before the works go to the ground. With this decision, we are saving months that the country cannot waste, time needed to advance investments at Humberto Delgado Airport, whose capacity in 2019 will grow due to the slots still available and the capacity of the aircraft itself, but that without short-term works we will not have capacity growth of tourism through air traffic from 2020 onwards. That is also the reason for urgency. We also gain a tample to carry out studies, engineering projects and deal with the necessary environmental safety authorizations and others to advance with the works, always in compliance with existing legislation. This is therefore a good agreement for the State and for Portuguese, which will allow development to the Setúbal Peninsula, where more than 10 000 jobs will be created through the implementation of this infrastructure, but which will bring more development to the Lisbon region and further development to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why it's time to stop hesitant. It's time to move on. That is what Portuguese and Portuguese expect of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u8	Four Mrs have signed up. Members for clarification requests: Mrs Joana Mortágua, the Left Block, Mr Hélder Amaral, the CDS-PP, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Greens, and Mr André Silva, the PAN. To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u9	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members, the Government has concluded an agreement for a remedy in the airport strategy that only defends the interests of a French company, Vinci, and to protect this business the Government is willing to overrun the environmental impact study and blackmail the Portuguese Environment Agency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u11	This means the agreement on the Portela plus Montijo!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u13	It's a deal with Vinci. Why? Because it is the cheapest choice that protects Vinci against the obligations of the ANA concession contract. It is the only business that sustains Vinci's interest in spending very little to earn much and it is the business that allows Vinci to win in two carts: at the new airport, where he spends little to earn much, and at Lusoponte, where he is majority shareholder and starts winning with the road crossing at the Vasco Bridge of Gama.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u15	The government presents this business as inevitable, but it is only presented as inevitable because Portela is at the limit. Now, the Portela did not stand at the limit today, the Portela was already at the limit at the beginning of this government and still the government pushed the belly until the only solution was the inevitable solution for the government's delay...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u16	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u17	...and that the inevitable solution was the one that interested Vinci, the one that Vinci wanted. And this is the inevitable choice for the government, because the government devilizes public investment: either an airport without paying for it and, because it wants an airport without paying for it, puts the population hostage to the interests of a private company, making the country's strategic interest hostage to a French private company, Vinci. This is the central block business. The right has privatized ANA to give rise to this business!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u18	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u19	The Socialist Party gave them a chance and, from the outset, it was not to protect the population from the south bank, nor to invest in the south bank, because from the South Tejo Metro, from the third crossing, a railway crossing with a Barreiro-Sixal bridge or seen! He only told the Vasco da Gama profit for Vinci and for Mota-Engil. For Portuguese the low cost airport can go out very high cost for Vinci. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u20	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u21	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, on this matter will not hear from the CDS or demagogy, nor any ideological conditionality on State investments. [[BE's protests.]] Having said this, I will reaffirm what the CDS has always said: protecting the hub of Lisbon, Lisbon Airport. This Humberto Delgado + 1 solution protects the importance of Lisbon airport in connecting Europe with North America and South America. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u22	It increases this capacity and transforms Lisbon into a central point, in what civil and commercial aviation changes are. This agreement, which I do not know, but which we have already asked the Government to send us, increases to the capacity of the Lisbon airport: plus 40 balconies, plus 22 parking places, more taxis and more 50 checkpoints in. If the Lisbon airport is no longer functioning today it is because this government has been incompetent to solve the problem of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ), which delays the departure of passengers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u24	Therefore, it is the government who is guilty of having the Humberto Delgado Airport working worse than what it should, but will work better especially with the closure of track 17 / 35. In fact, there is no need to do anything, and a government that really looks and governs cannot ignore the environmental impact study, which, in our view, should be a strategic environmental impact study so that everyone knows what led to the choice of Montijo and why not other alternatives. This is because it takes into account the agreement made when granting airports, and for those who criticize this model confirms the reasonableness of the concession made by the previous government, but the study is necessary. I still remember a minister who said "we may not have an arm, we live; we may not have a leg, we live; but not having an environmental impact study is mortal". This was what the "minister never" said! He said it, and it goes on. The environmental impact study is necessary, and is not the study of the environmental impact of the impact of birds on aircraft, it is also aircraft on the ecological system and on birds. The government says that if the environmental impact study is not favorable, the airport will not be done. But it says the common sense that the environmental impact study should have been done before and only then to make the decision. But still, the agreement — which I do not know, and we hope that the government will send it back to the House and to parliamentary groups — says that investments will be made, and the Minister has now confirmed it here. So, I ask: will investments at Humberto Delgado Airport be made in the same way, even if the environmental impact study makes Montijo impossible? Are these investments made with what model? The rate increase model? Our model had to do with the increase in passenger frequency at the airport and it seems that the model is now that of the investment made. How will there be more investment, what is the guarantee that higher rates will not affect the Lisbon hub? What does the government need to do? The government says what it has combined with the dealership. But what is the government's responsibility to do? For when is the new navigation system of competence of NAV ( Air Navigation of Portugal )? And the new connection to the Vasco Bridge of Gama? What about the Seixalinho terminal or another terminal at the Sodré Street? What about the increase in the number of ships? We never felt like this lack of ships now. A few days ago, Mr. Minister said there would be a shuttle at the Vasco Bridge of the Gama. Mr. Minister, take advantage to explain what that shuttle thing is on the Vasco Bridge of Gama because I was unaware. On what the government is to do, we know 'ball'! About what investment the taxpayer will have to pay, we don't know anything! If the Government wants to be serious, if it respects the Portuguese taxpayers and the government and is not an electoral committee, as it seems to be what the government has transformed in the last week, the Minister will have to tell us about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u26	The Minister will have to answer these questions so that the CDS can cooperate and give consensus to an investment that seems to us to be rational, because what we do not know is much higher than what we know. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u27	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u28	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, we called on the Minister to Parliament so that we can have a serious debate and the Minister went along with all the essential issues that I raised in my first speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u29	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u30	It has, yes, and it has happened on purpose, because the Minister has no answer to what the government is failing in. The Government is making a process of environmental impact assessment a real farce, and that is unacceptable, Mr Minister, but the government does not disguise itself, because the Minister comes here saying, with all the latrines, that the decision is taken and that, from now on, after the agreement, they are taking all steps to make this happen quickly. The environmental impact study will only be a proforma and the Minister, who already knows that the conclusion will be « favourable / conditioned», which he wants to look at only for the minimising measures and then say that everything has been fulfilled. It occurs that the environmental impact assessment is the support of a decision and, therefore, to say that it has decided without the environmental impact assessment being made is very serious. Mr. Minister comes to say that, with all the letters. Portugal must stand up and say 'no, it cannot be, Mr Minister'! And we also say it here with all the latrines. The Government must focus on this matter, it cannot distort the logic of an environmental impact assessment in this way. Minister, why does the government make the decision without the environmental impact study and an environmental impact assessment? See if you have the courage to answer me directly to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u31	I've answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u32	You didn't answer, I'm sorry. More: why does the government not make a strategic environmental assessment? Where are, after all, studies made at the same size for alternative locations so that one can understand which is, in fact, the best solution? There isn't, Minister! It responds directly to these matters, please. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u33	To ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u34	Mr President, Minister Pedro Marques, said that after 50 years of discussions and several locations studied and abandoned, it is time to decide and that there is no longer room for a solution other than a supplementary airport in Montijo. It is very strange, however, that a State that has been discussing the issue for 50 years and a moderate government, which is looking for the best solutions for the country, refuses to wait a few months for reports of environmental impact assessments. If the Government claims that, if the environmental impact assessment is unfavourable, then the Montijo airport does not move forward, then what is the objective of signing this contract? Mr Minister, would you like to leave the following question to you: do you have any privileged information on the outcome of this assessment, knowing that it will be favorable? Or is signing this contract a way to pressure and condition APA?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u35	The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor to answer the questions put to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u36	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, this solution is not a remedy. [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u37	The qualifiers are solely the ones of this parliamentary rhetoric. But, I repeat, this solution is not a remedy. Mrs Deputy, this solution is lasting and duplicates the capacity of the airport region of Lisbon to more than 50 million passengers. And it is also not a 'baby' — I anticipate the criticisms of the CFP on the subject,... [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... because we are talking about the Montijo additional airport, which will have an equivalent capacity to the second largest airport in the country, which is the Sá Carneiro Airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u38	What planes do they fit in there?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u39	Therefore, it is certainly far from being any kind of remedy. It is a durable and sustainable solution! This debate is based on the idea that the government will not comply with environmental legislation. Now, the Government, the Prime Minister and I have already said that we will fully comply with environmental legislation. More: no airport will start to be built without issuing an environmental impact statement. Why did we make the decision to move forward with the deal now? Because we have to do works at Humberto Delgado Airport, which need to be financed and for that the financing model needs to be stabilized, and yes, based on airport rates and not on the revenue from the State budget. For those who say that we are negotiating with ANA, I want to remember that with this agreement, we triple the average rate of investment at Humberto Delgado Airport in relation to investment since privatization, and the evolution of rates will be half of what has happened since privatization. Therefore, it is good that the terms of this debate are fixed: we need to move ahead with work at Humberto Delgado Airport, but in 2020 we do not actually have an increase in capacity. [[Protests by members of BE Heitor de Sousa and Les Verdes José Luís Ferreira.]] What we are doing is ensuring that the capacity of tourism, air transport continues to grow until a complementary solution can be implemented in the Lisbon region.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u40	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u41	These works are to be done, are to increase the capacity of the country's economy and to create jobs in Portugal, but always fully comply with legal and regulatory rules in environmental and safety matters. That is the guarantee the government gives to the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u42	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The head of the national airport network in our country, Mr Thierry Ligonnière, who is the official of the Vinci Group, who was responsible for administering ANA-Aeroports, was heard in parliamentary committee on 26 September. When confronted by the CFP on the central issue of submitting to these strategic options for the national airport network with one elemental thing that is the strategic environmental assessment, it replied as follows: « Strategic environmental assessment will not be carried out, because it implies evaluating alternatives with other solutions ». The view of the granting State, and that is also ours — coincidences! — the other solutions are not solutions, they do not fit into the economic model that has been negotiated. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u44	Send whoever you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u45	As my comrade says here, send whoever you can! The Minister has come to say that it is time to move forward, and with that exclamation he has concluded his speech. It then went on to say « depending on decisions at environmental level ». The question that we ask is the following: for whom is your exclamation addressed, what is the time to move forward? Is that what you're saying to the Portuguese Environment Agency? It certainly won't be! However, he makes commitments, negotiates and presents himself to the country next to the Vinci Group and then says that it is not a contract, it is only an agreement. This is a kind of financial, economic and contractual application of that theory of'smooth but not inalien'. Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, what stands out today is the grave picture with which the country is confronted due to the privatization of ANA-Aeroports, which was defended by PS and implemented by PSD and CDS when they were government. It was for these and others, Mr. PS Members, whom we voted against PEC 4. It was for these and others that we fought against the troika's covenant of aggression. And it was for these and others that we warned about the consequences and implications of a criminal privatization of ANA-Aeroports. The question that arises today is that of a government that complies and responds to the dictates of a multinational group, in front of its strategies and agendas. And that's why, Minister and Mr. PS Members, who are essential to place on the table the implications and consequences of this decision which was announced this week by the Government. That is why the central question is raised for us to reject this option, which is a long-term option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u46	It's all in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u47	Mr Minister does not accept the idea of the pawnbroker, but I ask him specifically the following: what planes do you have in this big airport that you have announced to Montijo? Long-term transport won't work there. What we need for the country, not only for this region, but for the country and for the Portuguese civil aviation is an investment phased with long-term perspective and development without the impacts this work implies for the population, not only of Lavradio, Baixa da Banheira, not only of the municipalities of Montijo, the Barreiro, the Moita, the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. Now, we continue to be not only a metropolitan area that maintains a large airport practically in the city centre, but that adds another one in the center of a metropolitan area, it is a truly regrettable option, because it is a subservience to the interests of a multinational. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u48	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Émídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three years lost. Today, we are in a situation that little or nothing differs from that which the government found in 2015. Since 2013, the date of the concession agreement, which were conducted studies to ascertain where the additional airport would be built. The studies carried out by LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ) and UTAP ( Technical Project Monitoring Unit ), which works with the Ministry of Finance, and published on the site of the then INAC ( National Civil Aviation Institute ) and now ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), clearly indicated that the best solution would be Montijo. More: the Minister knows that memos have been circulated between the government of the time and the municipal chambers to finish the process before the election period, which was not possible because the Socialist Party, which at the time was in opposition, did not so want. This was the state of art in 2015. What is the state of art in January 2019? Little by little or nothing differs from 2015 because there is still a lack of something that was already missing at that time, which is an environmental impact study. And we asked: So, there was no time, over these more than three years, for this study? It is, however, that in the middle of this period of time, Mr Minister in February 2017 did something very similar to what he did this week, which was to sign a role with ANA, with Vinci, to anticipate the trial in five years. Thus, with the five years that were anticipated this week and the five years that were anticipated in 2017, we are already anticipating in 10 years! At the same time, in February 2017, Mr. Prime Minister said : « Yes, sir, but the study on bird migration is missing, which will be ready by the end of this year, and then we will move forward. If everything goes well, the works take off now». Now, after so much time has been lost and so expectantly created, I tell you, Minister, very sincerely, that I thought that you had finally taken a decision, but not. The agreement concluded between the Government and ANA was published on the Government's website and, in the fourth paragraph, the following can be read: « The parties reiterate their commitment to finalising the negotiation process as soon as possible, possibly up to 30 days after the issue of the environmental impact declaration relating to the new Montijo airport ». Mr Minister, we agreed, it took three years to produce very nice 3D videos with the new airport and he is at exactly the same point! By reading the fourth paragraph of that agreement, we find that it is no longer a piece of propaganda, which is what you have been doing over the last few days. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u50	Unfortunately, it was three years lost and we doubt how much longer there will be. Why has it not accelerated over this period of time and the study that is needed has not been carried out? What prevented that? Why don't we know more details? And it is not enough to come here to talk about the fees, because the user-payer principle is established since the concession agreement. That principle was established in the 2013 agreement and would allow exactly the payment of the new airport, so you do not bring any news. It was already planned that money from the State budget would not be used. Mr. Minister is not bringing any news! The only novelty is that time passes, passes and passes and, from two to two years, the Minister appears in front of the television cameras, next to one of the gentlemen, to sign a paper and to say « now it will be». Honestly, I thought we would arrive in January 2019 not only with a video but with the closure of this process. As you say, and well, it was very important to resolve this, it was very important that this become a reality, because the country needs a complementary airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u51	This is your project, say pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u52	And he's late! It was very important that this project should be carried out for the benefit of the country and that we should not be left alone and only with a very nice and friendly video published within a few months of the European elections and the legislative elections. You wanted to tell the Portuguese that they had already solved the matter and that everything is already dealt with. After all, it's not treated at all. This case is not like that of Jorge Gonçalves, in which the "paper" was missing ; here, the environmental impact study to enable all this, and you have been delaying it for more than three years without explanation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u53	This disastrous option was your disastrous option!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u54	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diagnosis of the needs of a new airport solution has been done for a long time and the debate has also been long and not always with the correct direction and with the necessary firmness. 17 locations have already been discussed, with naturally favourable and unfavorable conclusions to any of these solutions, but in this everything has always been lacking the decision to move forward. By means of this, a sovereign opportunity was lost: in the context of the privatisation of ANA in 2012 there was no ability or will, or both, to include in this process the solution of a new airport. The result of this serious failure was the existence of a counterpart of EUR 3000 million for the State in which no share was associated with the airport needs of the country. In fact, this was the moment in this whole process, which is already 50 years old, in which there were the best conditions to unravel the node concerning a decision that has always been postponed. Therefore, at this debate and at this time when the Portuguese Government has decided, it is good to remember the costs of non-decision, the costs of hesitation and loss of opportunity that the country is suffering. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I remember some more obvious damage, such as the reduction of our competitiveness, reputation damage and the loss of nearly two million passengers per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the memorandum signed by the Government and the ANA is the signal that the government lacks the will to unravel this imbroglio, to present a way and concentrate its efforts on its implementation. The solution of Montijo's supplementary airport is not new and has even been defined and approved by the previous Government. On the other hand, already in this Parliament, several advantages have been identified which, of course, take into account the emergency situation of this infrastructure for the country, namely : the new airport in Montijo has a reduced cost ; it is a quick execution work ; and it may enter into operation in 2022. In addition, the existence of an airport in Montijo, although for military purposes, gives signs of a potential simplification of safety and environmental protection issues. to the technicians what is the technical — and it will be their responsibility to prepare an environmental impact study — and to politics what is the policy. And the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has not given up on its responsibility, which takes courage and determination, which has been lacking in this matter in recent years. We know that a lead in the Montijo solution is a reverse to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We reiterate, however, that the works only progress with an obviously compatible environmental impact study. But there are more advantages, and very relevant, to understand the decision to sign the memorandum by the Government. More than half of the financial resources that are planned are for expansion works of Humberto Delgado Airport. All parties are aware of the difficulties encountered in this infrastructure. Moving forward with the works is the aim of the government and without this agreement it would not even be possible. Therefore, it would be useful not to ignore this component of the technical and financial agreement, because it closes the fulfilment of the fundamental needs for the country claimed by all. Let us therefore be realistic: without this memorandum, we would continue to wait as we have always been and would not emerge the fundamental signs of hope in all those who today use and depend on Humberto Delgado Airport. Mrs. Members, there are millions of people who come from all over the world and who are worth millions for Portuguese GDP. I'm sure none of the gentlemen. Members would like to assume the burden of being responsible for these losses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u56	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u57	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: Mr Minister, in his initial speech, stated that the decision is taken and Mr Prime Minister, on Tuesday, on the day he signed the memorandum of understanding with Vinci, said the same. However, on Wednesday it has already been said that Montijo airport will not be done if the environmental study does not allow it. Therefore, Minister, the government has an erratic speech: sometimes it says that the decision is taken; sometimes it says that the decision is not taken because it is waiting for the environmental impact study. Mr Minister, of two, one: either the government does not know what is an environmental impact study or, then, even worse, is not aware that it does not know. When the report of the environmental impact study is presented — the first was, in fact, rejected by the Portuguese Environment Agency for not having dealt sufficiently with environmental issues — which appears to be going out in March, there will be a mandatory period of public consultation, Mr Minister. And this public consultation takes at least 90 days, with any citizen, any organization, institution or association the right to challenge the solution drawn up in that report.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u59	After that, the entity responsible for the organisation and preparation of the report must answer, oppose and counter the arguments mentioned in the public consultation so that the environmental impact declaration can finally be issued. Therefore, Mr Minister, the decision cannot be taken because the report under way is not known — the first report has been rejected — and the presentation of which is announced by March. You don't know! If not, this is a false debate. Why are we debating the solution the government has announced? It's no use. If the Minister is in favour of transparency and the primacy of discussion and democracy, this decision must necessarily be passed by the Assembly of the Republic and it cannot be the Government, invoking whatever it is, replacing that debate. Mr Minister, I do not know whether this urgency has to do with the fact that there are a number of unclear aspects linked to the solution presented for Montijo. For example, I don't know any European airport that doesn't have multimodal access, i.e. that doesn't have just road access, which is what Mr. Minister is defending for this Montijo solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u60	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u61	The solution to rail access, which is the only environmentally clean solution and which the European Union favours from the point of view of mobility policy strategies for Europe, is completely absent from this proposal, and that is absolutely unacceptable for us. Discussing the environmental impact study is also discussing these wrong choices that the government is playing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u62	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: On the day following the announcement of a structural work, like the one Mr Minister did, we hoped that today Parliament could finally get to know — and that you could clarify — matters as fundamental as to how access between the Montijo and the Vasco Bridge of Gama will be made, how will the river and rail links be strengthened. currently, there are no boats for the current search, the more for the predictable search, if this work goes forward. We don't know anything about these connections. How are you going to re-qualify Seixalinho and other sites? We don't know either. How will you implement the new navigation system? We don't know either. More than that, we do not know how Mr Minister can announce, with a pump and circumstance, the construction of a new airport, or a complementary airport, or a great piece of work, making it conditional on a study that is not yet done. Therefore, it will have to wait for a study which may be impeded by this work, a study, in fact, which is being done by a state institute of which the government has the guardianship. Therefore, Mr Minister, when answering these questions and when providing the documents that the CDS has requested, we will clearly understand whether this is indeed, as Mr. Carlos Pereira said, a sign of the will to do or if it is no more than a sign that the Socialist Party and this Government are already more in electoral mode than in way of doing better for the population of the Setubal peninsula. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u64	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I think it is significant that for the PSD, mainly the problem is not the disastrous option that it has taken, the problem is not to have made it clear that this disastrous option of the PSD is late. That's the PSD problem! This is your choice, sirs. Members, it is the choice of the central convergence bloc between what the previous government has launched and what the current government has maintained. What I am asking is that when the Minister says that this is a work to be paid by the airport charges and by the company's own revenues, what was the airport work in which it was not so? Who paid for the work of the Pedras Rubras Airport? Who paid for the successive enlargements and modernisations of the Lisbon airport? Who paid for Madeira airport work? It was always what it had to do with its own revenue and the commitments made by the company. In addition, it is significant that in the last 10 years of public management of ANA - Airports the average investment has been of EUR 114 million and after privatization has moved to half, i.e. to EUR 57 million of investment per year. When we talk about what is at stake today about the future, in which not many years from now the country will again be confronted with the need to build a new airport, but this time without the airport revenues that will stop at the coffers of the Vinci Group, we reaffirm that the option that should be taken and realized was the one that was studied and that was the conclusion of the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering and the Government at the time: the phased construction of a new airport at the current Alcochete Shooting Camp.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u66	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u67	Ending, Mr President, the follow-up to the decision that the PS Government has announced, including all the developments and problems that the Portela + Montijo option will raise, does not ignore the need to persist and intensify the fight for the recovery of public control of ANA and for the recovery of this factor of sovereignty and national development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u68	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to comment on Mr.Emídio Guerreiro's speech, saying that we are not today able to understand the positions of the PSD with great goodwill. During his speech, he said that there is still a lack of an environmental impact study, which is missing, but the question to which you have not answered in this plenary is the following: what has the PSD left for this government to do? Did you leave any technical-financial agreement to move forward? Did you leave an environmental impact study so that we could move on? He didn't leave anything! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, you didn't leave anything! In fact, it's the usual.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u70	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u71	With regard to your national investment plan, you had the so-called PETI ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) to budget EUR 6 billion and you lacked EUR 1400 million... [[PSD protests.]] So this is not by chance, it's the usual! You present, there is no money to do, there is no organization, there is nothing ready to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But more: did you talk about propaganda? Oh, my God! In 2016, the PSD gentlemen spread over Montijo, and that is still there, a role that said « Montijo airport already! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But at that time, there was no environmental impact study, no money, nothing! So what's this? Isn't this propaganda? Oh, my God! Isn't this an elective attitude? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This was your behavior! But you're right: Montijo airport now! But it had to be this government to decide! As much as it costs you, this government has decided and this government has been dealing with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u72	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia spoke for an intervention by the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u73	Mr President, ending the debate, the first thing I would like to say to the Minister is that assessing the environmental impacts of a given project is not wasting time, it is gaining quality in the decision and in what will be offered to the country and the people. Therefore, it is not to waste time, unlike what the government says on this matter. More: a project for an airport in Montijo or in another location that is not studied, as is not that of Montijo, must be subject to a strategic environmental assessment of different locations at the same size to be able to compare, if we are not cheating. And let me say even more: the works announced at Humberto Delgado Airport must also be subject to an environmental impact study. Or is it also wasting time? Mr. Minister, we're messing with serious things!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u74	We're not walking, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u75	We do, because when the Minister comes here, to this debate, where he had an opportunity to regularize things — it was an opportunity we gave him — what he says is that the decision is being made and - he said this - that 'these works are to be done'. The government has discredited itself, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u76	Totally!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u77	He's discredited! What the Government has been constantly saying is that it is clearly giving in to the economic interests of the concessionaire and is making an environmental impact assessment, or an assessment of the real impacts of a particular work and a given project, a mere proforma. That, when he comes, he'll come, but he won't interfere with anything! An environmental impact assessment has three key components: an environmental impact study, a public consultation and an environmental impact declaration. And you are clearly wanting to condition this environmental impact statement, which will be produced by APA, and this is absolutely unacceptable. I conclude by saying that those who in this country take environmental matters and the quality of life seriously must be in a strong fight against this government decision. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this agenda item. We went to the evaluation of the Resolution Project No. 1692 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Funding line for higher education institutions work in cooperation with the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people at risk. To open the debate, Mrs Laura Magalhães, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the draft resolution submitted by the PSD which aims to create a line of funding for higher education institutions to work in cooperation with the system of promotion and protection of children and young people at risk or danger in the development of studies, training, quality assessment and monitoring and implementation of specific action programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u81	The paradigm of action has changed and the Portuguese reality lacks specific answers that promote parental competences to improve and strengthen intra-family relations. It is necessary to develop interventions that provide more training in the context of professional practices. There is a need to develop systemic approaches, transformers and promoters of family training, creating and developing specific action programs that respond to the individual needs of families and the multiproblems that are emerging.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u83	The reports of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth (CNPDPCJ), as well as the reports of the Characterization of the Situation of Hospitality, the CASA, highlight the need to pay particular attention to the technical and educational approaches to meet the particular and individual needs of the subjects involved. These reports also show the importance of implementing devices that value cooperation between social agents, where intervention must be more directed towards family practices. It is necessary to train and optimize the practice in the various social valences, encouraging and supporting the most adapted and focused practices for interaction with families; it is necessary to review the mission and organizational structure of institutions in the face of current needs; it is necessary to operationalize the specialization of host institutions, which is covered by the law; it is necessary to differentiate performance profiles; it is necessary to invest continuously in the training and training of caregivers, which has not merited particular attention; and, once and for all, it is necessary to support the implementation of family care. Portugal has a good law, but needs more action, an action that responds to the individual needs of each family. We cannot allow refugees to continue on the premise that there is no means. If there is no means, then we will create the conditions for them to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u85	The challenge of paradigm change needs the cooperation of the different entities involved and science has to be hand-held with the whole process and must be the anchor of the system of promotion and protection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u86	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important in this debate on this draft resolution of the PSD that this party clarify what it really wants with this proposal. The PSD presents this initiative, referring, in its preamble, to the need for the training of professionals working in the area of the promotion and protection of young people at risk or at risk, even in order to intervene in the promotion of parental competences and in a set of family contexts of these children and young people. It was important to understand clearly what the PSD wants with this proposal, because the continuous improvement and training of these professionals or the updating of their training are the responsibility of the entities for which these professionals work. If, for example, CPCJ technicians (protection committees for children and young people) need to update or improve their training, it is the responsibility of this body to promote their training; if the question is the financing or financial conditions of the CPCJs to ensure such training, then it is necessary to strengthen the funding of CPCJs to ensure that such training is guaranteed; if there are professionals of higher education institutions, in particular the public, who intervene in this area and need to improve their training, then it is the strengthening of public higher education funding, because it is the responsibility of the State. The PSD, in this initiative, proposes special funding for higher education institutions. But what institutions, Mrs. Member? Public institutions or private institutions? And what are the institutions that are in the resolution specially targeted for these areas? The PSD needs to tell what comes when it refers to quality assessment, monitoring or implementation of action programs. Which means the PSD says that, with this special funding money, higher education institutions will evaluate quality, monitor...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u88	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u89	... and are you going to schedule the action of the protection and promotion system for children and young people? Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u90	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u91	Is that what the PSD wants with this resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u92	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u93	It was necessary for the PSD to say exactly, and in all the letters, what it wants, because at the moment there is nothing to prevent cooperation between higher education institutions, particularly the public, and the system of promotion and protection for children and young people at risk. If there is a problem, particularly in public funding institutions, then the strengthening of its funding, as the CFP has proposed several times in this House of the Republic, but against what, curiously, the PSD has voted against. It is necessary, Mr. President and Mr. Members, that the State assumes full responsibility, even constitutionally, for monitoring and intervention with children and young people at risk and their families in all contexts in which these children and young people develop. It is necessary to strengthen the means of the CPCJs, as the CFP has repeatedly defended, but with regard to the last initiative presented here by the CCP, the PSD voted against. It is also necessary to strengthen the means of social security, moreover, poor social security. A breakdown by which PSD and CDS have special responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u94	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u95	I'm done, Mr. President. What is not necessary is to give more money to private higher education institutions. That is what the PSD really wants with this proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u96	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia spoke for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Laura Magalhães and the Social Democratic Party on the schedule of this initiative and to note that we have taken note of several of the issues mentioned in her speech and that they reflect a concern that has been shared in this House of the Republic about this area of support and response to the needs of children, young people and families at risk. I therefore share what has been said on this subject, in particular the concerns expressed once again about the importance of family reception and the way in which we still have to go. In fact, we hope that next week we will have the opportunity to deepen this debate on an agenda for the CDS. Madam Member, with regard to the initiative here, I must say that, on our part, we believe that it is not wrong, but we express some reservations about the main road. Otherwise, let's see: PSD announces or makes two diagnoses. On the one hand, the need for families in a situation of psychosocial risk is increasingly being supported, in the face of the difficulties they face, particularly in promoting parental capacity and family living. It's a very true diagnosis. It is also said that under the CPCJ system and the Home Report — Annual Characterization Report on the Child and Youthcare Situation, professional support for families in this situation is increasingly evident in professional and scientific terms. Therefore, it is stated the need to train different professionals who work in the system, the need to give them skills to work and to interact with families. One more true diagnosis! In this regard, it should be recalled that it was with the former Government that the family support and parental counseling centres were set up, the CAFAPs, specifically designed to support the families they need and have children and young people at risk. The aim of these centres was to provide a response to families, to accompany these children and young people at risk. The previous government created them, this government, practically put them in the drawer and on this there is no development.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u98	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u99	Therefore, the answer given here to these two diagnoses, i.e. the creation of funding for higher education institutions, raises some doubts. We are not sure, on the contrary, we have many doubts that it is the right path to respond to diagnoses. Strengthening CAFAPs, yes ; creating a family support network, yes, as has already been proposed by the CDS. However, of course, the CDS, in view of the urgency, in view of the need, will not make this initiative impossible, even though we will not fail to express the reservations we have expressed here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u100	The Bureau does not register, although there are several parliamentary groups that have not yet intervened. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u101	Mr President, I am sorry, if I may, I would like to use the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u102	You have the floor, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating draft resolution No 1692 / XIII / 3. the, through which the PSD proposes to the Government the creation of a line of funding for higher education institutions, aimed at the promotion and protection of children and young people at risk. The promotion of the rights of children and young people is a national design. in this sense, it is essential that the various institutions with competences in this area, since education, health and social security, are focused on training professionals and students to enable them to intervene effectively and effectively in the problems of children and young people at risk or at risk, particularly in the area of prevention. The protection of families and children and young people in a vulnerable situation, with particular attention to children at risk or at risk, is a priority taken by the current government. However, this is a matter which does not directly fall within the governmental area of science, technology and higher education. However, this government area has participated in this relevant government effort, through the financing of research units, research projects, doctoral projects and the hiring of researchers in scientific areas relevant to the system of promotion and protection of children and young people at risk. This funding, through the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation), currently supports several projects in the scientific areas on this topic. I highlight the existence of a doctoral grant and a post-doctoral grant, in addition to several research units. currently, there are 13 research projects on the subject under discussion, whose public funding is more than 2 million euros and involving several entities. Furthermore, the option presented in the draft resolution under consideration would imply the allocation of additional funds from the CTF, and the budgetary conditions necessary for its implementation are not guaranteed. On the other hand, it should be noted that the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, within the framework of its legal tasks, has powers to, among other actions, "enhancing the conclusion of joint and collaboration protocols" between various entities; "ask for studies to diagnose and assess the needs of existing social measures and responses or to promote, within the system for the promotion of rights and protection of children and young people"; and "consult the action of all public and private entities, structures and intervention programmes" in the area currently under discussion. In this way, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers the creation of an additional line of financing, on the one hand, in view of the competitive financing already allocated under the framework of the CTF and, on the other hand, the competences conferred on that National Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u104	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution that the PSD brings to the debate addresses a real problem in the country — the answer, and the need for it to be added, in relation to the promotion and protection of the rights of children and young people at risk. And do so, I believe, in a virtuous perspective, through the involvement of the academic world and the promotion of both knowledge and information sharing, of that knowledge, with those who closely deal with situations of vulnerability of children or at risk. We talk about professionals, but also about families and even the follow-up of children themselves and young people themselves. Here we are left with regard to the kindness of this draft resolution of the PSD, because then they transform these ideas, which I believe are subscribed by all the Members of this House, in emptiness, as regards the proposal and recommendation made in the draft resolution. As indicated, a number of these answers are already being given in concrete, but the draft resolution "shoots aside" with regard to the main problem we have with regard to the operation in this area, i.e. the lack of technical, human and financial resources of the CPCJs. Apparently, they seem to give priority here to a line of funding that "launchs side by side" of the country's real need. From that point of view, it seems to us that there are other priorities to be given, which have already been proposed in this House of the Republic, but that the right has not, in particular, accompanied the PSD — the strengthening of the means of the CPCJ, but these, rather, very close to children and young people at risk or in situations of vulnerability, capable of acting to protect them and promote their rights, as their obligation is. This measure would not imply what seems to be an intentional opening by the PSD to an indirect form of financing of private higher education institutions through this draft resolution. From that point of view, this lacks an explanation and the PSD should say what it wants, which are the higher education institutions that, in fact, want to see financed, to the detriment of the CPCJs on the one hand and, on the other, of a thought and work of the public space, of the public sector, which is what is required of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u106	I believe that we can move on to the conclusion of the debate, so you have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of this debate, I am pleased to say that the legislative amendment over the years has taken positive steps in the development of the system. However, and responding to the questions that have been raised, there is a need for more sustained scientific support, through which science can further assist in the development of the whole process of the system of promotion and protection, in all its aspects. They will tell me that there are already money for this. It is true, but they are not called for this purpose. Entities must, together with others, apply for a large cake, with no positive discrimination, and often these areas end up being neglected in favour of other important areas as well. What we want is that there is courage to promote positive discrimination, if we want to reverse and rejuvenate the action of the Portuguese system of promotion and protection at all levels. We cannot allow children and young people who are deprived of their families to be delivered to themselves, to good sense or to the goodwill of professionals, nor can we allow institutions that receive children and young people at risk to be delivered to themselves. On the other hand, we must provide conditions for families meeting the best requirements to be trained and accompanied in the care and support of the most disadvantaged families through family care. Basically, what we want is precisely this, that science can have a positive discrimination for a greater and better development of this whole system. The diagnosis is made, but now there is a need to go to the heart of the problems. All responses must be specialized and equipped with scientific support. That's what the PSD defends. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u108	We have thus reached the end of the second item of our agenda. We will enter into the discussion, in general, of Law Projects Nos. 920 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Removes the vissgolds and 1055 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Establish a residence permit scheme based on investment activities in ecological projects — green visas. To open the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country that takes itself seriously does not sell citizenship rights. This is what we are debating today: is it acceptable for Portugal to sell citizenship rights in exchange for 500 000 € tied in real estate? We can pretend that's not what's at stake, but that's actually what's at stake. In 2012, then Minister Paulo Portas made the speech of the pretending and assured that accepting the figure of the golden visas in Portugal was essential to capture foreign investment creator of employment. Pure pretending! of the 6962 gold visas awarded between 2012 and 31 December 2018 only 13, I repeat, only 13 were associated with investments involving job creation. 6775 were awarded visas to real estate buyers for more than 500 000 €. He said in 2014 the then Secretary of State for Tourism: « The State is not the Remax. We are not a real estate agency'. He then added: «But the government is responsible for providing an environment for these businesses to be carried out». In order to avoid any doubts, he added and concluded: « Residential tourism continues to be the main dynamiser of residence permits». I conclude: our cities know the effect that such a 'good environment' on the business created—is called speculation and obstacle to the housing of the common people. We are therefore left with fantasies: seen gold has nothing to do with job creation and, less so, with cultural patronage, as the government has put into law. This will not happen with ecological, humanitarian or any other projects. Don't! Gold visas are only a tool of real estate speculation and, on the ride, also of corruption practices and money laundering. They'll say the fans of the vissgolds that I'm exaggerating. And I ask: what is the reason, if not that, is that it leads the public authorities to refuse to provide anyone with information on the names of the applicants and beneficiaries of golden visas, something that is not in the countries most strongly defending these visas, such as Malta or Cyprus? Oh, my God! In the visosgold, as in the application of offshore capitals, the secret is even the soul of the business. It is up to the fans of the golden visas to fully demonstrate that these criticisms have no basis. And I say to you, I hope you have great difficulties in this task. The survival of visasgold is, in fact, the expression of a loathsome choice among people. For those with money, the requirements are reduced: where a minimum of 30 jobs created by an investment associated with a gold visa were previously required only 10 ; where the investor was required a minimum stay of 30 days in Portugal in the first year and 60 in the following years, only 7 and 15 days were required respectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u110	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. Facilities behind facilities. But for those who come to Portugal with their labor force and with the dream of a better life for themselves and theirs, the demanding defenders of the golden visas want maximum rigor and impious writing, seeing in each worker the stoves of Odemira or the civil construction of Faro a latent terrorist. To end the golden visas, and I conclude, Mr President, is, above all, a service that we render to our collective dignity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u112	You have the word, to present the Bill No. 1055 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Establish a residence permit scheme based on investment activities in ecological projects — visas green, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Golden visas represent residence permits to foreigners where there are substantial investments in Portuguese territory, business or real estate. Since its creation in 2012 its global investment has amounted to EUR 4 billion and 6900 residence permits have been granted. Considering these data, as well as the importance of strengthening a multicultural society open to foreign investment, it is important to create an additional regime to attract foreign investments of ecological charities. We therefore propose the creation of green visas. Green visas will be granted for ecological investments equal to or greater than €500 000, giving priority to low-density territories, and will have to guarantee one of the following premises: investing in non-intensive biological agriculture; creating ecotourism projects; actively contributing to the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality; affecting self-consumption projects with renewable energy sources 100 % or projects with high energy efficiency standards. The approval of green visas will reinforce Portugal's role in the capture of international ecological investment and guarantee, in parallel, the transition to a circular and decarbonised economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u114	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with two bills that apparently affect the same subject but which point in literally opposite directions. Indeed, while the BE initiative aims to eliminate visasgolds, the NAP proposes to extend this regime to green visas. It is not about replacing the colour of the visas, what the NAP proposes is that, in addition to the vissgolds, there are also green visas, although also gold.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u116	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u117	In fact, this NAP proposal reminds us of a passage, according to which a citizen intends to install a kiosk in a garden. He goes to the camera and the camera tells him: « It can't, because these land are green spaces». And what is the solution? The green kiosk is painted and the problem is solved. [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u119	This, to say that, in our view, money laundering, peculation, corruption or other illegal tax and even criminal offences that are normally associated with such visas are not less serious nor cease to be crimes only because the investment that supports visas has environmental coverage. In any case, regardless of the colour of visas, we will always be talking about crimes, and crimes that are necessary to combat with all firmness and with all democratic responsibility, not opening more doors that enhance their practice, such as the NAP proposal, would certainly enhance. In fact, for the Greens, what is required is to end this immorality and not open any more doors to a mechanism that favors the import of corruption and organised crime. But the Greens are not against these mechanisms just because they potentiate the practice of economic crimes, regardless of the colour of visas. In fact, what we have seen is that these instruments, the golden visas, more than represent a support for foreign investment that creates employment—which, in fact, in our country, is said to pass, was zero— are an efficient means to purchase residence permits. This is the central issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u121	That is to say, this mechanism, whether gold or green, is a way of creating absolutely condemnable and unacceptable discrimination, establishing first-class citizens — those who have €500,000 to acquire a property or invest in organic agriculture and, as a prize, have their residence permit — and second-class citizens — those who, without this money, are subject to a real martyrdom to obtain their residence permit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u123	Now, extending a passage, whether golden or green, for permission of residence to those who have money, while those who have no money are subject to a skull of bureaucratic thorns, and not only, is, in our view, truly unacceptable, not worthy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u124	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u125	... strange to a democratic rule of law and, above all, a monumental attack on human rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u127	Therefore, in view of what is said, we follow the proposal of the Left Block to end the vissgolds, because we also consider that in a democratic rule of law rights cannot be reduced to a commodity that is bought and sold, as if it were a soap, but we cannot follow the PAN, which, in fact, goes much further than the right itself. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u128	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin with a previous statement, because I was the rapporteur of the project of the Left Block, concerning the so-called « golden visas ». In my opinion, which — it should be stressed — it has been approved unanimously,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ...I gave an opinion in order to disagree with the proposed elimination of these visas, but at the same time concluded that the process should continue and should not be continued. As everyone will agree, I have not conditioned any Member or any parliamentary group, which are obviously free to make a judgment other than mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u130	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u131	It turns out that I am a consultant to a lawyer company that, in addition to many other things, deals and gives legal advice to applicants for these visas, but as I have never had any intervention in any such process or on this matter, I have never sponsored anyone about it, I have never had any doubts that there was no conflict of interest to be expressed. Nevertheless, because of the controversy that my opinion has generated, I have asked myself to request an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission on the subject. And the Subcommittee on Ethics gave this opinion, declaring itself decisively and categorically because of the absence of this conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u132	He gave you a ‘gold visa’ for the discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u133	Having said this, we're going to the left block project. Mrs. Members, in practical terms, what the Left Block wants is that Portugal affords the luxury of excluding 4, 2 billion euros, which is what has already rendered the project of the golden visas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u134	To whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u135	... during the last six years, i.e. EUR 60 million per month, or that the Government will give up, which throws out the door EUR 58 million of IMT ( Municipal Tax on the Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate ), of stamp and emoluments which is charging every year, values which, in fact, appear from the State Budget for 2019, approved by the Block of Left, to be charged. Therefore, it was good for the Left Block to explain how, on the one hand, they are voting on a Budget which includes these recipes and on the other hand, they are saying that they do not want these recipes to be charged.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u136	You'll know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u137	Then there are jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u138	How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u139	... huge,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u140	How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u141	... thousands of jobs...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u142	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u143	... that were created, directly and indirectly, with this program.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u144	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u145	Mrs. Members, I am no longer talking about the social integration of immigrants in a country that has the greatest social and demographic crisis ever. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The program is not perfect and can involve risks — no doubt! — but the radicalism of its total extinction is disproportionate and inadequate. It's not because there are accidents on the roads that we're going to end the cars or the roads. It is not because there are tax frauds that we will end with the Tax Authority or end with taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u146	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u147	Finally, Mr President, saying only this: if it were true that this programme would empower economic crime and corruption, then the means should be strengthened, which is what various European countries are doing that are suspected of bringing corruption and crime to themselves. This is what the Left Block should propose, rather than exhibit a clear prejudice against wealth. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That's what we should be ashamed of, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not wealth, it's poverty. And, in this matter, the Left Block takes a good lesson from the PAN, with the sights green,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u148	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u149	... project which proposes to extend the scope of the existing visa programme. The PSD, therefore - and with this end, Mr President - will vote against the project of the Left Block and in favour of the NAP project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u150	It's an orange visa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u151	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the Left Block, and which we are discussing today in general, seeks to eliminate the so-called « golden visas ». I wish I had access to studies on the impact of the program in the country, but unfortunately there is very little public information about the granting of these visas. However, I underline these figures : since 2012, around 7000 visas have been granted, which have generated 4, 2 billion euros, of which about 90 % are channelled for the purchase of buildings. at this time, as already mentioned, only 13 visasgold were granted because of the requirement to create at least 10 jobs. The investment resulting from visasgold in our country thus assumes a potentially speculative nature in the real estate sector, with a residual impact both on the economy and on job creation. Is this the foreign investment we intend to attract to our country? Oh, my God! The preliminary report of the European Parliament's Special Committee on Financial Crimes and Elections and Tax avoidance considered that the potential economic benefits of these instruments do not compensate for the serious risks of money laundering and tax evasion. In view of the above, I will vote in favour of the elimination of golden visas, without prejudice to the consideration of an alternative programme. I note that, with regard to the NAP proposal, I will not be able to vote in favour, because, despite my understanding of the intention of a green visa, it seems to me that, in terms of which this initiative is presented, it extends but does not correct the problems of the golden visas. Citizenship and residence cannot depend on the economic condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u153	All right! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u154	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project that the Left Block presents today is practically a decal of the project that it presented in the previous Legislation. by representing his purpose almost words to them, the Block of the Left does not thus ignore its outcome. It should be noted that the Left Block does not intend to improve the scheme or redirect the revenue obtained through the residence permit programme for investment activity, it is proposed simply to delete it. In other words, it is proposed to delete not only the possibility of obtaining visas through the acquisition of buildings, but also all the others provided for in Article 3 ( d ). the, i.e., the Block aims to suppress the possibility of direction of this investment for the support of artistic promotion, for urban rehabilitation,... [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] ... for the financing of scientific research,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u156	That's a joke.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u157	... or for the recovery of cultural heritage, just to cite some examples that, however, since the presentation of the previous project,... [[BE's protests.]] ... they were introduced into the law, and that the Block is a matter of ignoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u158	It's been a success!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u159	Now, to demonstrate the futility of this purpose, nothing better than matching this project with the other project that is today, here, under discussion, the one of the NAP. What the NAP project clearly demonstrates—if this, perhaps, lacks demonstration—is that it is possible and desirable to take advantage of and direct the investment captured through the granting of residence permits for investment for the pursuit of public policies useful for the development of the country. To simply end with the visasgold programme is therefore not reasonable or useful. It should be noted that, as mentioned since 2012, the accumulated capital investment from abroad to Portugal has totaled more than EUR 4 billion. There is no one with governmental responsibilities who can argue that the Portuguese economy is indifferent to EUR 4 billion or that Portugal can or should waste similar amounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u160	The PS will give in to the "OPA" of the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u161	We live, as we know, in a European area, in an open economy where capital is to be raised. Either this investment is picked up for Portugal or, being suppressed, as the Block proposes, it will only help to grow other competing countries with us in the attraction of capital. [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] And you don't have to look far! To have a notion of what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 4000 million, as mentioned above, have come from nearly 6000 commitments since 2012. In this period, next to it, Spain has granted EUR 25 billion, i.e. Spain grants each year what Portugal has granted in a total of six years. Eliminating or withdrawing the possibility of residence permits would only have the only and foreseeable consequence of transferring today's investment in Portugal to other economies, in particular Spain, without any benefit to Portugal. That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be unreasonable and absurd! We can also improve residence permit schemes for investment, in addition, very recently, during the discussion of the State budget, the Left Block also approved a proposal by the Socialist Party to encourage cross-border data between the SEF and the Tax Authority in respect of the countries of origin of these visa applicants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u162	Seen for the rich!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u163	We can, as well as the NAP, extend the scope of the relevant investment for the granting of residence permits, if any, by promoting public policies leading to an acceleration of the economy's decarbonisation. What would make no sense...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u164	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u165	I conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, what would make no sense in this context was to abdicate an instrument that allows this application. I would like to conclude by stressing that this is in no way collide, and Mr. José Manuel Pureza knows, with the reception of immigrants who do not benefit from this regime, in which Portugal is indeed a recognised example of good international practices and where, very recently, measures have been adopted, some proposals by the Left Block, which have strengthened their rights. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we will not be able to follow the project of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u166	Oh! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u167	We have moved on to the CFP Parliamentary Group and Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP will vote in favour of the extinction of visasgolds and will not support the creation of visas of the same nature, although they have a different color or intend to show a different color. And we do not do so on the basis of intent processes, we do so in view of the immoral duality of criteria that represent the existence in our law of so-called 'old visas' and, at the same time, the difficulties that have been opposed to the regularization of citizens working in Portugal, seeking to have minimum conditions of subsistence for themselves and their families and which are faced with the greatest complications for their legalization. Our question is not to assume that anyone who has 500 000 € to buy an apartment is necessarily a criminal. That's not the idea that moves us. There is no presumption of crime or crime here that you have a lot of money. The question, for us, is that the permit of residence in Portugal should not be marketed, it should not be bought, it should be for those who deserve it, it should be for those who, in accordance with the law, and not for those who, even if they have no need to live here, nor if they want to do so, want to invest here, particularly in real estate, in order to obtain a golden residence permit in our country. We have nothing against an immigrant who has fortune goods and who lives in Portugal, has his residence permit and buy here a high-value property. Obviously, the problem of the origin of your money is already another problem, which has nothing to do with it. What we consider is that, in Portuguese law, a reasonable way of legalizing the generality of citizens who are in Portugal and who work here should be found. And the criterion must be this, the criterion must not be established that residence permits in Portugal are sold to someone who has money and can make a real estate investment, because the Portuguese State is very satisfied with this, since it is money that comes here. The criterion must not be that. We must have a criterion concerning the authorisation of residence in Portugal which is human, which relates to the fact that people living here, working here, establish themselves in our country and have all the conditions to be in legal status and be able to enjoy all the rights inherent to national citizens, removing those which the Constitution reserved exclusively for nationals. This right should not be bought by means of a golden visa or any such visa, which means, in practice, that the Portuguese State sells residence permits for the exchange of money. The criterion should not be that, and that is why our position in this legislative process is contrary to the existence of golden visas of any kind or visas of any other colour. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u169	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having nothing special against the green visas, center me in the project of the Left Block, to say that the Block brings us a unique draft article. This is a simple, single article project: finish the golden visas. On this subject, the first thing I would like to do was to underline a precision: the idea of visasgold is neither intended to be a central axis of our migration policy. That is not why the golden visas exist, that is not what they were created, that is not their reason for existence, that their essential reason for existence is the attraction of investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u172	That's what they've been created for, that's what they're for, that's why they exist. From that point of view, what needs to be said is that they are a success, I repeat, they are a success. In other words, in 2018 alone, they generated EUR 838 million and in half a dozen years we have more than EUR 4 billion. Therefore, they are a success, they are an important achievement, they represent money that comes and remains in Portugal and, from this point of view, there is nothing to say. On the other hand, as has already been said, there is one thing that is obvious: 11 countries, only in the context of the European Union, I repeat, 11 countries have this system or similar systems. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] If this money does not come to Portugal, obviously, it will go to a contestant from Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u173	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u174	...and, therefore, it is good that Portugal has this instrument. The main arguments against this are the question of crime, money laundering, etc. It is clear that we must combat crime, corruption, money laundering, but this is essentially a task of research and justice itself, of origin justice, of international justice and, on the limit, of Portuguese justice. We cannot confuse one reality with the other. Quoting the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, there is no problem in the Directorate-General for Travel that we will end with driving letters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u175	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u176	But you don't admit letters from the Amparo flour either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u177	The phrase is not mine, it is from the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. So we need to make that distinction. The second major concern of the Left Block is to combat real estate speculation. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, I would even say that the Left Block, perhaps for some time, would do better not to talk much about real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u178	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u179	That's what you guys wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u180	It was better not to go that way, because if you go around there, you might get the idea that if a Portuguese citizen, even having a foreign name, buy a house for €347 000 and, some time ago, selling with a plus value of 4 million, there is no problem,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...as long as you're the leader of the Block. There comes your coordinator soon to say: "Nothing happens, nothing has happened, everything is right, everything is clean." [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] A foreigner who has money, who wants to come to Portugal and who wants to buy a house can't do it. In other words, the foreigner can only come to Portugal if the Portuguese State gives him the house and not himself, with his money, buys it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u181	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u182	I conclude by saying the following: we do not share this disease against the wealth and worship of poverty. Even if the investment is just real estate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the houses don't appear made, the houses are built, they're rehabilitated, there's investment, there's companies. Even in this case there is an economy working. [[BE's protests.]] There are jobs, there's wealth, there's investment, there's foreign investment, and that's good for our country. Therefore, for our part, we voted against the Left Block initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u183	To close the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report on the National Assessment of the Risks of Money laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which was prepared by a Working Group set up by the Ministry of Finance of the previous Government, that Mr Telmo Correia was responsible, as well as other people from the PSD and the CDS-PP, says : « (...) our country presents a relevant set of characteristics which may be explored by (...) transnational criminal organisations, « (...) in particular: (...) various investment incentive programmes(...) ». And he adds that in the most delicate sectors, in this matter, he is — no doubt! — the real estate sector, precisely because transactions are abnormally very high. Mr Telmo Correia, I believe that, with the elimination of the golden visas, one of the important services we provide is, indeed, the fight against corruption, money laundering, finally, the fight against all the "Jacintos Capelos Regos" that exist in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, I would like to address the argument that irrespective of money is irresponsible — Mr Peixoto said that he is not here now, and also Mr Peixoto said so. Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão and Telmo Correia. I tell you this: it is truly irresponsible to promote real estate speculation. That's irresponsible! Irresponsible is to be complicit in money laundering, opening this hypothesis, either through visasgold, or through visas of any other color. Finally, Mr President, I shall finish by addressing one last argument. Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão says that what we have to do is improve the regime. I would say, Mr President, that attempts to improve have already been several and have always been in the same direction: to reduce the requirement of the regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u185	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u186	The period for the residence of foreigners in Portugal under the golden visas changed the number of jobs, the promotion of cultural projects was added. Result? Zero! Result? Zero, sir! Then the gentlemen. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão and Mr Telmo Correia, and the other supporters of the golden visas, also say: « we really have to compete with the other countries, because if not, the money does not come here and goes to other countries». I've heard you say that about offshores, and I'm against that thesis! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u187	We move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 1028 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ) : add the jurisdiction of the Court of Intellectual Property. To present the legislative initiative on behalf of your party, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are walking wide towards the end of this Parliament and, if it is not yet time to give the final accounts, there are some balances that we can already make. One of them has precisely to do with justice, with the justice that occupies the central place in the rhetoric of the overwhelming majority of political forces seated in this House, but which, later, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case, i.e. with rhetoric and dead letters. This legislation will be indelibly marked by a historic agreement of the agents of justice, sponsored, as we all know, by the President of the Republic, to which no one, except the CDS, gave body or form of law. At the end of this legislature, many of the initial objectives will be very difficult, even though one or another initiative may come to its way, as is the case with those we discussed yesterday in this House regarding administrative and fiscal justice, and that the government brought to the company of the bills that the CDS presented in this matter as early as March 2018. But, despite the lonely walk that the CDS has been doing, we do not give up and today make another contribution to this reform of justice. This contribution pursues the good reforms initiated by the previous government and aims to deepen a little further the specialisation. What we propose is a relatively simple thing that does not have much science, but that seems to us to make an important contribution to the deepening of specialization, which, as I said, is essential and is one of the main avenues of all the reforms that have been taking place in the field of justice. What we propose, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as follows: the Court of Intellectual Property has jurisdiction today to judge counter-ordinary matters relating to industrial property, but, curiously, and by one of our mistakes, it seems to us that it does not have jurisdiction to judge counter-ordinary proceedings concerning copyright and related rights. However, its own name indicates that this is the forum where these matters should be dealt with and therefore does not make any sense that it is distorted by the competence of the Court of Intellectual Property the treatment of these matters. And, in these matters, as we all know, there are processes that walk through the courts of general competence, which, because they do not have enough know-how, often leave specific questions to escape. On the other hand, there are often courts that declare themselves incompetent in the matter and these proceedings go to the grave, from court to court, until someone finally decides to pick them up. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u189	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes every sense that this matter is concentrated in the Court of Intellectual Property, and that is what we propose. We propose clarifying the situation and therefore conferring competence on this Court, which has special and specific competence to deal with the matter. Moreover, and to conclude, Mr President, this is a matter that fits well with what we discussed yesterday in this Chamber, with regard to the decriminalization of unauthorized uses of videograms and phonograms, so in the specialty, by fine-tuning the proposal we were dealing with yesterday, which needs a refinement, and the project that we are dealing with today, we will discuss these matters together, so that everything is duly overlooked and that these issues are no longer difficult and have a forum of their own, which is that of the Intellectual Property Court. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u190	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said right now, it is in some way a matter of continuing the debate we had here yesterday on the Government's bill on the decriminalization of certain conduct in the field of public communication of phonograms and videograms. I believe that the hypothesis of decriminalization and the transition to a logic of the type of counter-order, with due caution, will be, let us say, generating the need to guard what can happen, in terms of recourse to the application of these same fines and, finally, of the counter-ordination processes. From this point of view it seems reasonable to us that this same jurisdiction is effectively placed in the jurisdiction of the Court of Intellectual Property. In our view, this makes all the sense, but, as we said yesterday, the basic question is that, above all, it is important to consider, and we believe that the discussion should be focused on this point, that the means available to IGAC (General Inspection of Cultural Activities) for the monitoring of this matter should be sufficient for its function to be performed with rigour. On the other hand, of course, by attaching tasks to the powers of the Court of Intellectual Property, this also requires that this jurisdiction be endowed with the necessary means. Therefore, on our part, there is availability to, in the field of specialty, just as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said recently, if we make a virtuous link between what was presented yesterday by the Government and what the CDS now brings us here, so that we can create a regime that works well from a counter-ordinary point of view and also from the resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u192	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Intellectual property today plays an enormous role in economic growth, job creation and the development of the innovation system, gaining an increasing importance in the value of companies, both technological and commercial. The Court of Intellectual Property was established at the time of the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System in 2013, and aimed to expedite the processing of judicial proceedings within the scope of intellectual property law, concentrating all existing processes in a single court, with national jurisdiction and with exclusive and restricted competence. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have based on the needs of the specialization that originated in the establishment of this court, the initiative of the CDS, which concerns precisely the extension of the sphere of competence of that court, makes the whole meaning of the PSD. Since the Court of Intellectual Property has no competence to judge decisions in copyright and related counter-ordination proceedings, including recourse to the decisions of the General Inspection of Economic Activities, it is our view that it is fully relevant to take decisions on copyright and related counter-ordination procedures. In other words, given the procedural complexity which is naturally inherent in these matters, it seems reasonable to us to maintain the competence for appeals in the field of the courts currently competent. With this addition, we continue with the purpose that was at the origin of the establishment of this Court, allowing for a better redistribution of proceedings and their decongestion, with the reduction of the number of suspensions in the trade courts, currently competent to judge these decisions. On the other hand, the addition of this competence will also allow for more efficient management of the processes concerned and, of course, with better, faster and more appropriate decisions, in view of the complexity of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The growing recognition by economic agents of the importance and advantages associated with the use of this Court has, in fact, led to an increase in the demand for services provided by public authorities which have responsibilities in the area of protection of industrial property rights, a circumstance that emphasizes the importance in the ongoing search for solutions. This bill, presented by the CDS, is another solution to add to this whole dynamic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u194	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Before making a reference to the draft diploma which is on the table, I cannot fail to share with the House a different view on the justice of the one that Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has just expressed. In fact, the justice sector and the results of this legislation show a clear difference in the recent past. And it led to the collation the significant reduction of judicial expectations, with numbers that have already been discussed in this House, the increase in speed in the resolution of judicial proceedings, the significant strengthening of means in the justice sector, which are clearly signs — and anyone who wants to see will have no great doubts — that the state of justice, currently, is not the one that was designed, is much better than what we had in 2015. But, going to the question in particular, what the CDS brings here today is basically an adaptation of powers to the Court of Intellectual Property, therefore a review of the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, which has in fact created the Court of Intellectual Property, with generic competences, extended throughout the national territory, notably in terms of industrial property, copyright and related rights. It appears that the ICT ( Court of Intellectual Property ) has no jurisdiction to judge decisions of counter-ordination proceedings relating to copyright and related rights, in particular the IGAC remedies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and the organization of the courts on the matter of the reserve of competence of the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with Article 165. that of the Constitution will make every sense, in our view, that a legislative solution is considered in which the decision of the IGAC decisions in registration and counter-ordination processes related to copyright matters and related rights are the competence of the ICC. We agree with this premise and, therefore, it is the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that this amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, proposed in the draft law under consideration, makes partial sense. And I say that it makes partial sense, because we believe that it is necessary to take into account appropriate answers to some questions, such as trade-related issues and the issue of entry tickets or free pricing in electronic commerce, which are matters that come out of the focus of intellectual property, which, in our perspective, is clearly a success case, because we are at risk of, with the proposed enlargement, being able to draw that focus. The same is true of the powers relating to the registration and supervision of collective management entities, which, in our view, are essentially in the nature of administrative law. For this reason, it is the conviction of the Socialist Party that this project is likely to be worked out in specialty, where we may have to fine-tune this amendment, and in conjunction with the measures discussed here yesterday, in the context of the discussion of the bill that has already opened the way for the decriminalization of some matters, which can now be appreciated in counter-order. It is in this sense that we will work in specialties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u196	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would say that this debate is like a sequel to the debate we had here yesterday and would even have made sense, if there had been any attention from everyone about this aspect, that the discussion of the bill that the CDS presents could have happened yesterday, when we discussed matters that related precisely to intellectual property. Indeed, it is important to recognize that this allocation of competence to the Court of Intellectual Property complements the decision that is pending in the legislative procedure we concluded yesterday. The legislation adopted here has not been implemented so far, insofar as a counter-ordering regime was established in relation to copyright infringements which, after that, did not have practical conditions to be implemented, and that is what we were saying yesterday. But in addition, the competence relating to those counter-ordinations was also not assigned to the Intellectual Property Court and would make any sense whatsoever. Thus, we believe that this project, which the CDS considered to be a simple proposal, and that is, it tries to assign competence to a specialized court that was created and, being this matter that is obviously related to this expertise, makes every sense that is expressly assigned to it by virtue of the diploma that regulates the organization of the judicial system. Therefore, of course, the CFP Parliamentary Group agrees with this amendment which is presented here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u198	I think that no one else wants to speak, so I give the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva to close this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The obvious conclusion of this debate is to record the unanimous consensus in this House that the principle is to follow. I am therefore grateful for the availability of all parties to, in the field of expertise, refine what there is to refine. We are obviously also available to do so. There are subjects that may have to be seen, but I would like to leave only two specifications: it is true that this matter is intrinsically linked to the discussion we did yesterday of the decriminalization of the unauthorized use of videograms and phonograms, but it goes a little further. There is already a cross-border issue which is now the responsibility of the IGAC which must be dealt with in this forum — the Court of Intellectual Property — and which is not just about what we discussed yesterday. This question is therefore more broad than we discussed yesterday, and so I would like to leave that rescue. What is more, the question we discussed yesterday has a problem—in addition to the fact that the Government has been in this area—which is that of the supervision that Mr. José Manuel Pureza spoke recently, the problem of the factual possibility of the proposal being enforceable, because the IGAC now has no means to its competences and, therefore, with this competence, will have this problem increased. These are the subjects that we are going to have to discuss in the specialty, but this bill goes beyond this matter because, as I said, and I repeat, there are subjects that are already within the competence of the IGAC and that are moving to this forum. I'd still like to leave a note, because I can't resist doing it. Mr Fernando Anastácio said that in this Parliament justice has been treated with all the scrolls and full of attention. Mr. Deputies, it's not true, you know it's not true! Where there was a reduction of expectations was in the civil forum and this stems from the reforms that have been made in the past. In the administrative and fiscal forum, where it was not possible to reach this far and to make these reforms, expectations are accumulated and only now the government is aware of initiatives that the CDS has already presented almost a year ago in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u200	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u201	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u202	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, we must all have the notion that in this House the CDS was the only party force that presented proposals in the field of justice. The Government has now presented two, but it is little and it is short, and it is unfortunate that no more has been done for justice in this legislature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u203	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Draft Law No 881 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the regime for the regularization of undocumented foreign citizens ( sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July ). To present the initiative, Mr António Filipe of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we held a few minutes ago on visasgold focused on one of the aspects of immigration policy that has been dominant in Portugal. Anyone who is rich and has half a million euros to spend here can buy a visa and obtain residence permit. But there is another face: whoever is poor, has no other means of subsistence other than his work and has entered Portugal irregularly is condemned to illegality, unless, in a discretionary and exceptional manner, he is granted residence permit. This duality of criteria is not acceptable, but the problem is not only this duality of criteria. The immigration policy of the Portuguese State and the legislation it supports must be fair, must respect fundamental human rights, must come to meet the real interests of the national community and must respect the dignity of the human person. As is widely recognized, many non-national citizens who work honestly remain in Portugal, who seek among us the conditions of survival that do not have in their countries of origin and who live in our country, some of them have been in an irregular situation for many years, with all the difficulties that this situation entails in terms of their social integration. If immigration is an indisputable good for the national community, the illegality to which many foreign citizens are condemned is a real social scourge to which it is urgently needed, by means of an unbridled fight against human trafficking networks, but also through a policy which, rather than penalizing the victims, allows their fair social integration with all the rights and duties inherent to them. For the CFP, the solution for the regularization of undocumented citizens does not go through the reopening of extraordinary regularization processes such as those made in the past, exceptionally and transitionally, and with positive but very limited results. And it is not so little for exceptional mechanisms and discretionary regularization such as those already provided for by law. The situation of undocumented citizens in Portugal is a flagrant violation of fundamental rights which cannot be ignored. Thousands of foreign citizens who have sought our country in search of survival conditions remain in Portugal and who work in various sectors of economic activity without any rights, in some cases even without the right to pay, benefiting people without scruples who profit from blackmail that the irregular situation of these workers makes possible. The full social integration of the foreign citizens who are living and working in Portugal is an indispensable obligation of the Portuguese State. Only through this will it be possible to put an end to the over-exploration to which these workers are subject and to respect their fundamental rights. The winds of racism and xenophobia that blow through this outside world do not fight with measures of remoteness or social exclusion of immigrants, capitulating unacceptable racist and xenophobic pressures. They fight precisely with social integration, dealing with all citizens with the dignity they, as human beings, have the right to. The CFP therefore proposes, through this draft law, that foreign citizens who are living in Portugal without the legally necessary authorization may obtain their legalization, provided they have means of subsistence, through the exercise of professional activity, or, in any event, provided they live permanently in Portugal from the moment before the last revision of the immigration law that took place in June 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u205	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u206	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. Similarly, the adoption of decision-making procedures with transparency, correction and rigour, the granting of provisional authorisation of residence to foreign citizens who, having required their regularization, await final decision, the extensive application of the regularization to the applicant family group and the adoption of mechanisms for democratic and participatory supervision of decision-making processes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u207	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Today, it will become a habit, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u208	That's right, Mr. President. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u209	A pleasant habit, you understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful for your kindness! [[Laughing.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, as Mr António Filipe has said, it is quite right that this is a follow-up to the debate, which we have just had recently on the proposal from the Left Bloc on the elimination of golden visas. Because the truth is that we live in a country with two antagonistic regimes: a system of creating facilities for millionaire immigrants and a regime that creates difficulties, which requires absolute criticism, maximum rigour for immigrants who are not millionaires. There are those who say that they have no ideological prejudices. And it is true, they have no ideological prejudices, they have only prejudices against the poor and for the rich. That is, of course, only kindness, and nothing more. Now, the PCP project, from our point of view, goes in a similar direction to the one who motivated a bill of the Left Block, which has been approved very recently, so that those who already have discounts of at least 12 months for social security and are immigrated to Portugal will be entitled to a provisional visa to regularize their situation in our country. We understand that, despite the difference in the proposed solutions, the proposal now presented by the CFP will generally, in the same sense, seek to caution this situation in another way. Therefore, we are convinced that it will be possible, in the specialty, to accommodate the solutions advocated by the various parties, precisely in the perspective of strengthening a more decent recognition, fairer than the conditions of life and rights of people immigrating to Portugal. Thank you very much again, Mr President, for your compliance! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u211	The Bureau shall no longer register any requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] Mr José Manuel Pureza modestly says that, after his intervention, it is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u212	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u213	Apparently, PSD does not agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u214	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u215	I now give the floor to Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is another debate on immigration-related matters, a matter to which the PSD attaches great importance and which it always faces with a great deal of responsibility, but also in coherence with the defence of the country's best interests and Portuguese, and always based on humanist principles and values. So in doing so, whether it is in the government, as it has been in the past and, I am sure, it will be in the future, either in the opposition, as it is in the present, we believe that this is the most correct decision. Immigration or, better qualified, migration is one of the most relevant phenomena for inclusive and plural contemporary societies. The dual currency of the migration phenomenon — both immigration and immigration — today face various challenges of a political, legal, economic, social and religious nature, which only true immigration policies, based on responsibility for entry and responsibility for integration, will be able to meet one of the main challenges facing the world, Europe and countries like Portugal in these areas. In fact, in a world and in a Europe where these matters have created so many and inopportunities, it is of national interest that it is not politically correct, going to meet generalist and security approaches, exploring ignorance, which in most cases are no more than the mothers of many walls that separate us, from many hatreds that blind us, from many fears that penalize us and from many populisms that are no more than children and children of racism, xenophobia and demagogy, which go against the history of Europe and Europeans and countries like Portugal. Portugal is the example of a country that has been able, since the beginning of this century, to create and solidify a true public policy of immigration, with responsibility and with results, without entering the waves of demagogy and populism of those outside, above all, profess the papal effect of immigration, both of those who defend the so-called effect. As a political party that prides itself on the work carried out in successive governments led by itself since 2002, we refuse either the Papa effect or the so-called effect. Because if there is a country that has a coherent policy about migration, it is ours. Because we are, among other aspects that it is important to highlight, a country that has a diaspora by the four corners of the world and also because we have benefited, and much — and studies are not lacking — with immigration, not only economically and socially, but also culturally, religiously and even with positive effects on our demographics. For this reason, this debate is another opportunity for us to reaffirm these principles and compromise with the defence and implementation of a public immigration policy based on humanism and responsibility. We are not just an issuer country, we are, above all, a receiving country that, in the 21st century — the century of the people's movement — as we have been during the 20th century, has people coming from several continents. We are, and to end, the party that had the responsibility to produce, politically and legally, different legislation that allowed terms of immigration law and the right of the most modern foreigners and also to be the political party that, in the Government, created, for example, the ACIME (High Commissioner for Immigration and Ethnic Minorities ) and the ACIDI ( High Commissioner for Immigration and Intercultural Dialogue), the CNAI (National Centres for Support for Immigrants), the CLAI(Local Centres for Support for Immigrant Integration), the SOS Migrant Line, the National Choices Programme, the COCAI ( Advisory Council for Immigration Affairs) and many other instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u217	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u218	That is why we want to say here today that this matter which the Communist Party brings to our attention deserves the best attention and that our vote on this initiative will therefore be that of abstention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u219	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Moreira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that in this debate there is a great change in the last one we have had here in terms of immigration, in terms of the draft laws of the Left Block and the PAN, the debate already mentioned here by Mr José Manuel Pureza. in this debate, we have heard of bad intentions, in danger of trafficking in human beings, in danger of terrible crimes by immigrant citizens and, therefore, it is with joy that I see that tone has changed and that something has been learned. In summary, I must say the following: as we know, we have a stable legal regime, a system that is lauded and in fact has an ideological burden. And contrary to what has already been said a few times, it has to be. That is why Portugal has recently walked, with the praise of some international organizations, contrary to some of the worst European practices—and I am glad to say that it is. We had a draft resolution of the Socialist Party that was abandoned, since the Government itself made a regulatory decree that provided what was envisaged in the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, in order to expedite the legalization of those who are here more than one year ago in the situation to which the recently approved draft laws of the Left Block and the PAN were referred — and therefore, with discounts more than one year ago in Portugal — the legalization of such that in the last debate were seen as possibly with bad intentions. However, this regime which allows it to be regulated for humanitarian reasons is working — in fact, in accordance with the last intervention of the Minister of Internal Administration in 1. the Commission has increased the number of people who are regularized under this scheme, and we should be happy about that. On the other hand, we are doing and we are going to continue a work that has been carried out, in the field of expertise, since we have seriously approved two diplomas, already mentioned here, which have not been satisfied with this exceptional regime, to allow the regularization of people for humanitarian reasons, and who want anyone who is in Portugal, but who has illegally entered, having been discounted for social security a year or more years ago, to see their situation recognised and therefore their access to recognised social rights. And we're at this point. The bill of the Portuguese Communist Party, in whose principles we fully recognize ourselves, raises some doubts because, from a technical point of view, it does not go in line with what I said recently, when I mentioned the previous projects that will be discussed in the specialty, but, in fact, approves a regime of regularization of foreign citizens parallel to the regime that already exists...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u221	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u222	...and with highly bureaucratic and even expensive problems for immigrants themselves. These are the reservations that put us in this PCP bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u223	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, once again Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has a clear position on these matters and from a long time ago to this part. As far as immigration is concerned, we obviously defend humanist principles, but humanist principles that have to be combined with an idea of rigour at entry. Therefore, this bill of the Portuguese Communist Party comes to the fore of what we have long defended and even, in our perspective, has two fundamental risks. It has the risk of an effect called obvious, because, from the moment when everything and any situation will be regulated, the effect called is obvious, and it ends up not favoring legal immigration, which has several components. Therefore, the similarity with the previous debate and with the attraction of foreign investment is not forced, because people can come under that regime and people can also come—and we defend this—under a humanitarian regime, in particular integration and integration, in particular, of migrants from northern Africa. Both things are not incompatible, you can't create a mechanism that will legalize everyone automatically.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u226	Mr António Filipe explained from his point of view that this scheme is not intended for those who already have some kind of regularisation in Portugal, it is not intended to make an exceptional regularisation of those who are, pass the expression 'hanging' and not for those who already have some kind of discount and contribution to social security, having legally entered our territory, because for these cases there are already previous proposals, including the Left Block, which have already been discussed and made viable. This scheme is intended simply to legalise all those entering Portugal and, in particular, those entering Portugal illegally. Now, this is obviously not acceptable for us, because what Mr. Antonio Filipe has just said is: « Enter, in Portugal, the leap, by land, by sea, whatever it is, because, after being here, they will necessarily end up seeing your situation recognized and legalized! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So that doesn't seem like a good solution, it doesn't seem like a good idea. Portugal obviously has a humanitarian vocation, in accordance with its capacity and what the Portuguese State assumes, and must assume it. Portugal must of course favour those coming to Portugal, having conditions to be in Portugal and to integrate, and having work. But you cannot simply assume a statute that you want to be a kind of shelter for any situation, in a policy of absolutely open arms or completely shaken doors. That's not our goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u228	We defend, as I said, humanism, but without permissiveness. And the central axes of our policy in this area are always the same. We want rigour in entry, humanity in integration and fight against trafficking and illegal immigration, and the way to combat illegal immigration is legalizing that same immigration. But legalizing those who have legal entry, in Portugal, and not the other way around. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u229	To close the debate, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u230	Mr President, I would begin this last intervention by valuing the attitude shown by the PSD in this debate, which completely isolates the CDS on the right, with the speech of fear about immigrants...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u232	...and, above all, falsifying what is contained in the PCP bill. The fundamental difference here is that while the PSD actually read the PCP bill, already the CDS, of two, one: either did not read the project or wanted to read what was not there. It is because Mr Telmo Correia says that what we intend to say, with our project, is: "Come, come here! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, that's what you defend for the vissgolds when they say: « If you bring 500 000 €, come! » — and this, yes, has an effect called!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u234	Now, when it comes to a person who is working here, you already feel that it must continue illegal, that there should be no possibility, except for an exceptional blessing, to allow it to be regularized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u235	Whoever comes for humanitarian reasons can come!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u236	I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at least twice, there have already been extraordinary regularisation processes in Portugal which have not produced any so-called effects. Since the 1980s this happens and these processes have not brought any known effect; on the contrary, they have even been approved unanimously in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u237	They didn't bring anything else! They just didn't bring anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u238	Would you excuse me? If you will excuse me and let me speak, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u239	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u240	I would like to stress the constructive way in which this debate has been dealt with, except for the CDS intervention in this debate. Our purpose with regard to this bill is to avoid situations such as those occurring in our country with some immigrant workers, who live in Portugal and are working here, many of whom even make their contributions, but do not have their situation properly legalized. We understand that it is in the interests of not only themselves and their families but also of the national community itself, taking into account the legality of the labour market in Portugal and the fundamental respect for human rights, that these people have the opportunity to legalize their situation. We can discuss the best solution, technical and administrative, to do so. It is not our purpose to bureaucraticize things; our purpose is to find situations that are clear, perceived by all and that allow people to reasonably obtain their legalization and that their processes are not hindered or are not in the availability of good or better will by the Public Administration or by the SEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u241	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u242	Our purpose is to have a clear mechanism, but to allow the people who are working in Portugal to have their situation properly legalized, as all national and foreign workers should have. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u243	Thus, the general discussion of the Bill No. 881 / XIII / 3 is concluded. a ( PCP ). We moved on to the joint debate, in general, of the Bills Nos 885 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Prevents the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing diclofenac and 1056 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — prohibits the marketing of veterinary medicinal products of the active substance of diclofenac. To present the Greens' legislative initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public knowledge, one of the global problems that most make you feel in the world is the issue of biodiversity loss that is being verified at a perfectly hallucinating pace. It is a global problem, which also requires regional and local responses, so that strategies can be found to preserve precisely this biodiversity. The bill that, today, The Greens submit to the Assembly of the Republic, which prevents the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing diclofenac, is a very concrete contribution to the preservation of biodiversity. That is, in fact, the main objective of this project. The fact is that the use of diclofenac in veterinary medicinal products for livestock has been lethal for necrophages. In particular, abutres and some eagles feed on cattle corpses, medicated with diclofenac, and eventually die within a short period of time. In fact, this drug persists in cattle carcasses, with lethal effects for which they feed. There are also cases at international level where the loss of biodiversity in respect of these species, because of this particular case, has occurred in about 97 %, which is quite significant and has rightly led to the necessary prohibition of diclofenac. Now, in Portugal, the issue of marketing authorisation and use of diclofenac in our country is on the table. An authorisation in this respect would constitute, in the Greens' perspective and taking into account what I have just mentioned, a threat to the important components of our biodiversity. And this situation ends up being all the more worrying as many of these species have a sensitive status at the level of the Red Book of the Vertebrates of Portugal. We speak of almost-threatening species, such as graffiti, or endangered species, such as the abutre of Egypt and the real eagle, or of critically endangered species, such as black obutre and Iberian imperial eagle. They are species which in our country have been the target of recovery programmes for their populations, including Community programmes such as LIFE projects. Recently, we have observed some success in nidification and reproduction, for example, of the black oatre and the imperial eagle, extremely sensitive species and whose populations have been declining. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even to conclude, I would like to say that there are obviously alternatives of varied range to this medicinal product here in question, without such a negative effect on those birds. That is why the Greens present this bill to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u245	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indisputable that the veterinary medicinal product with the active substance diclofenac represents for necrophages birds, including beets, taps and some eagles that feed on carcasses of animals to which this medicinal product has been administered. The European Medicines Agency recommends, as a risk management measure, the withdrawal of this medicinal product from the market for veterinary use since there are proven alternatives without impact on necrophage birds. In view of this clear risk, and taking into account the various warnings from non-governmental organisations(NGOs) in the Environment, the Assembly of the Republic approved in March 2018 a recommendation from the NAP initiative for action by the Government to eliminate this risk. Almost a year later, DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) remains unofficial and the possibility of marketing diclofenac in our country remains open. Thus, the NAP presents a bill to ensure that the use of diclofenac is prohibited, since this possibility constitutes a denial of national commitment and effort to preserve necrophages species and the pursuit of conservation objectives of nature and environmental sustainability, both at national and European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u247	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing bills aimed at preventing the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing the active principle diclofenac. However, we would like to stress that the use of these veterinary medicinal products in Portugal is not authorised. Diclofenac is an anti-inflammatory substance used in livestock, equivalent to returning to human use. It is recognised its risk to necrophage birds if they feed on animal corpses treated with this active principle. Often, and as an example, cases have been reported in India in the 1990s in which it relates to the death of abutres and eagles due to acute renal failure after the ingestion of tissues of dead animals who had been medicated with diclofenac. However, we believe that comparing the Portuguese reality, or even that of the European Union itself, with the Indian reality of the 1990s, particularly with regard to the policies and practices of eliminating dead animal bodies from farms, is deeply demagogic. Portugal has for many years had effective systems for collecting dead animal corpses, ensuring the elimination of animals that die on livestock farms, which makes it impossible for necrophage animals to feed on production animals. In the European Union, the use of diclofenac for veterinary use began by being authorised in Italy from 1993 for cattle, pigs and sports horses. Other authorisations were subsequently followed by several Member States. However, it was only after the authorisation given to Spain in 2013 that some organizations questioned the European Commission and informed it of their reservations regarding the risk to the populations of necrophage birds, that concern is also based on the cases of India and South-East Asia. Consequently, risk mitigation measures have been implemented in the countries of the Union where this active principle is authorised. Furthermore, authorisations for the veterinary use of these products are based on the assessment of compliance with the requirements of European directives, including always environmental safety assessment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware that there is indeed a request by DGAV experts for authorisation for the marketing of one of these veterinary medicinal products. This is a technical issue that requires risk weighting, according to protocols based on demanding scientific criteria, implemented by qualified technicians for this purpose. More: Portugal has long been committed to the recovery and conservation of necrophage birds, demonstrating special care with this animal group. We see the involvement in projects such as Life Nature, already mentioned here by Mrs Heloísa Apollonia. Therefore, technical decisions should be taken by those who are certified for this because they will certainly be the most assertive in safeguarding animal welfare and Portuguese environmental diversity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u249	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is recognized as the holder of a very rich fauna, among which is a small effect of necrophage birds. We are talking about critically endangered species, such as the Iberian Imperial Eagle or the Black Butterfly, with some recent recovery. We are also talking about almost threatened species, such as graffiti, the small abutre of Egypt — the so-called 'Brittan' — or the real eagle. For these necrophages, the intake of products incorporating diclofenac may be fatal, such as carcasses of animals treated with medicinal products containing this active substance used in livestock with analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. For this reason, in 2006, the product was banned in countries such as India, where millions of these birds disappeared and this disappearance was associated precisely with the use of diclofenac. Although authorised in a few European countries, its use continues to raise controversy and to be denounced as a serious threat by a number of credible entities, such as the already referred to as Bird Life International. But at least the precautionary principle imposes on us the decision of its non-use. The adoption of conditions for the use of diclofenac, such as that of only being applied in stable animals, for example, does not completely eliminate the risk because at any time human control may fail. There is a dead animal collection system, it is true, Mrs. Anne Passos, but I remember that, in August 2016, there was a temporary interruption of the service of the SIRCA (Dead Body Collection System in the Exploration), the system that ensures the collection of these carcasses. at that time, the Directorate General for Food and Veterinary, recognized that the circumstance could constitute, I quote, "a threat to public health, animal health and the environment, thereby generating a critical situation" and imposed procedures for the elimination of animal carcasses. Question : Who can guarantee that these procedures have been or will be adopted by all, everywhere? A single small failure in collecting or eliminating the carcass of a medicated animal with the product—even if the failure is occasional— could lead to the fact that the entire population of a species of necrophage birds is decimated, because in Portugal there are species in which there is only one handful of birds, one or two couples. Moreover, as has already been mentioned, the existence on the market of products with the same therapeutic indication, safe alternatives, without the adverse consequences of diclofenac, is known as an added reason for not taking any risks, especially since the survival of such vulnerable fauna is concerned. In 2016, just over two years ago the International Union for Nature Conservation approved a motion recommending the prohibition of diclofenac. The Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests itself has already recognised the risks of its application for the conservation of necrophage birds. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems to us that a political decision should be made to explicitly prohibit the sale and veterinary use of drugs using diclofenac as an active principle, not leaving this possibility open. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u251	The next intervention is Mr António Ventura, from the PSD. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have here a resolution of the NAP and of the Greens that breeds populism once again. I say populism, why? It is because six months ago this House decided to recommend to the Government that it conduct a study on this same medicine and, despite what this House recommended six months ago, now the NAP and the Greens want this same House to say directly « not to be used ». Well, you cannot have both things at the same time: or it is prudent to recommend to the Government that, through its technical services, taking into account your knowledge, your know-how, if you study the causes and consequences of applying this medicine, or then, it is directly recommended. It is that The Greens and the NAP are always trying to mark the political agenda with something that has already been decided, deliberate in this House, which is not noticed, unless the NAP and the Greens know that the research services do not work in Portugal. I will give you an example: our Academy, the University of the Azores, is never too much to remember, ended 2018 with a deficit of €800,000, requiring an extraordinary revenue of €790,000, because the Government of the Republic does not pay the services that were contracted under the loan contracted in 2012. In other words, there is a distaste for the Government of the Republic in relation to the University of the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u253	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u254	...there is indeed a neglect, contrary to what the government has announced. More and more, I have the impression that the words of the government are a scrap, a constant scrap which is no longer of any importance, because what they say does not do. Therefore, we have a problem in our Academy in the area of research due to the failure of the Government of the Republic to comply with the payment of debt services of a loan made in 2012. There is here a failure, a waste, a negligence that has direct implications for the investigation of this Academy. If the Greens and the NAP are aware that there is a lack of funding in Portugal, that there is a breakdown, then say, because in this case we can evaluate this decision. What you can't do is decide something six months ago and now decide otherwise. Either you have weight and responsibility, or you have irresponsibility. Therefore, the PSD will not embark on demagogy and populism to re-operate with the demagogic and populist agenda of the NAP and the Greens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u255	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecologist Party today brings up a bill through which it seeks to prevent the use of veterinary/farming drugs containing the active principle diclofenac. Therefore, seek to preserve species of animals susceptible and vulnerable to this medicinal substance and veterinary use, since this medicinal product may be lethal to necrophages that eventually feed on animal corpses that have been treated with medicinal products containing diclofenac. In the explanatory statement of the Green Bill, it is stated that in India, between 1992 and 2007, the presence of this drug in less than 1 % of the cattle carcasses inherited by this group of birds led to the decline of its populations by about 97 %. Being just the concern raised, it seems important to reflect on some aspects. On the one hand, India has not yet implemented a dead animal body collection system in operation as it exists in Portugal, being known as SIRCA and is specifically aimed at ensuring the proper referral of animals killed in the holding to ensure the protection of public health, animal health and the environment. If it worked in its fullness, this important SIRCA system would virtually eliminate the risk to public, animal and environmental health. However, there are problems and the consortium that manages the integrated animal body collection system has been reporting it, stating that it can suspend the collection of dead animals, because some economic operators, especially some supermarket chains, have not made the payment of the Food Safety Rate More, which has led DGAV to receive about 16 million euros and to have an impact on delays in its payments. On the other hand, we do not know the dimension of the problem in Portugal, perhaps due to lack of studies, that is true, but what is true is that we do not know how animals susceptible to this substance are being affected. However, there are studies that indicate that there is a risk for critically threatened species. at the same time, according to the Order of Veterinary Physicians, there are currently drug alternatives that can replace diclofenac, producing the same effect. in this sense, if there is risk and this risk can be eliminated and if there is a viable alternative, we do not see why we do not implement measures that can save vulnerable animals. The CFP will vote in favour of this Greens project, however, warning for possible negative effects on livestock production, in particular by increasing treatment costs associated with alternatives to the substances now eliminated, which should be cautious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u257	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These NAP and Green initiatives aim to prevent the possible use of veterinary medicinal products containing the active substance diclofenac, as already mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u259	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of agreeing to have the honourable Member heard. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u260	Continuing, I mean it's not a toxic drug for animals or humans. However, from the studies that are invoked, it turns out that birds that feed on the carcasses of previously medicated animals with products that include that active principle are at risk of lethal effects. Such a duty must be given to the fact that the effect of the said substance may persist in carcasses up to seven days after the death of the animals. In this regard it is mentioned that in the 1990s there was a drastic reduction in the population of three species of abutres in the Indian subcontinent. At the time, this almost extinction would have been attributed to the regular use of diclofenac livestock in that region. Although no studies are known to assess the impact on the abutres and several species of eagles, also necrophages, existing in Portugal, several entities such as Birds Study, Birds Study, the Vulture Conservation Foundation, the Spanish Society of Ornithology, the Spanish subsidiary of the World Life Fund and the Portuguese Society, among others, in a press release, have expressed great concern about the potentially devastating impact that the use of diclofenac may cause on those birds that, remember, are legally protected by the directive of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u262	It is understood that it is prudent to take seriously the harmful effects of diclofenac on necrophage fauna. A possible marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary can in fact jeopardize the survival of those species and thus the ecological balance that occurs. However, by praising some of these assumptions, this House approved in April last year a recommendation to the Government not to authorize the marketing of diclofenac for veterinary use because it is considered that its use may represent the risk of extermination for necrophage fauna.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u263	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u264	Furthermore, it is not certain that the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Control authorizes the veterinary use of diclofenac—more, after the approval of the recommendation I refer to—it should be stressed that alternative, safe and equally effective medicines are available on the market, such as meloxicam, which is duly authorised and in current veterinary use.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u266	Therefore, the need or usefulness of the draft laws of the NAP and of the Greens, which intend to prohibit the veterinary use of a medicinal product which, after all, is not authorised by the competent authority for the prescription or use of livestock in national territory, is not understood. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u267	To close this debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u268	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the arguments that was now given here by the CDS and also by the PS was that the medicine containing diclofenac is not authorised and therefore they question whether the presentation of the Green Bill makes sense. My question is this: are the Members absolutely sure that they will not be authorized? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u269	And do you do it first? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u270	They don't! So, let's apply an interesting ecologicalist principle, which is that of caution or, more appropriately, that of prevention. It is important that the Assembly of the Republic take a very clear, binding position for the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u271	We've had it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u272	... in that it does not authorize medicinal products containing this substance. I think it's all justified this way. Mrs Ana Passos of the PS said recently that since there was a system of collecting animal corpses, it did not make sense for necrophage birds to be hit, let us say, by animals treated with this substance. That's not true! The honourable Member knows that there are areas that have been discovered and knows that there are some lower categories of production that are not associated with the Dead Animal Body Collection System in the Exploration. More: Just a dead animal that has been treated with diclofenac, let's simplify, to decimate a colony of abutres! We are therefore talking about a serious issue of conservation of certain species, of preservation of biodiversity, which we must take seriously all aspects. Mr. PSD Member António Ventura, you have to define your concepts better. I don't know what you mean by populism, but I don't know whether you like to take the others for those who are your attitudes. [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] What I want to tell you is this: a recommendation is a recommendation, a bill is a bill, and The Greens have never submitted any recommendations regarding this matter. What the Greens consider is that, when it gives to bind the Government to certain matters which the Assembly of the Republic decides, a bill should be submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u273	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u274	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is the first initiative that the Greens are presenting on this subject — already not to mention a number of initiatives that we have taken, particularly with regard to questions to the Government on conservation plans for these species, and others — and we believe it makes all the sense. If the gentlemen. Members who wish to associate themselves with the preservation of these species must vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u275	We move on to the last point of today's agenda, with the general appreciation of Bill Nos 1047 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of rape, adapting the legislation to the Istanbul Convention ratified by Portugal, and 1058 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amends crimes of rape and sexual coercion in the Criminal Code in respect of the Istanbul Convention ( 47. the amendment to the Penal Code). To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Harbour Court decided to keep two men free who raped a woman in 2016, at a Gaia discotheque, when she was unconscious, claiming that the « lawlessness» was not high. It states the Court's judgment that the defendants' guilt lies in the median, at the end of one night with a lot of alcohol, an environment of mutual seduction and not premeditation in the practice of the facts. The woman, I remember, was unconscious. In 2014 the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, best known by the Istanbul Convention, entered into force, but the amendments to the adaptation of Portuguese law were clearly insufficient. In our country, consentless sex is reduced, it is not seen as a crime of sexual coercion or rape. Criminal frameworks are soft and most convictions are turned into suspended penalties, which is unthinkable. All of this confirms and reaffirms the demands of several non-governmental human rights organizations, who tell us that Portugal is not complying with the Istanbul Convention and that it is closing its eyes to gender-based violence associated with rape crimes. The PAN wants to change this reality. We want the crimes of sexual coercion and rape to become public crimes and to be no longer dependent on the victims' complaints so that the proceedings are initiated, as is the case, with domestic violence. We want to tighten up the criminal frameworks for those who commit sexual crimes to pay effective prison sentences, even ensuring that there are more serious and dissuasive penalties to the practice of these crimes, and we believe that the crimes of sexual abuse of persons with no resistance or of persons who are hospitalized represent crimes with a greater burden of reprehensibility, since they refer to situations involving people with special vulnerability, and should therefore become an aggravating factor in the crimes of sexual coercion and rape. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simple: if there is no consent, there is violation. The devaluation of sexual violence and the high impact of sexual violence on the lives of victims is unacceptable. The disregard of these crimes passes to society a message of impunity and a consequent feeling of lack of protection. Let us once and for all take this path in Portugal, we fully adapt the content of the Istanbul Convention, towards the end of gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u277	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The crime of rape carries a very strong gender brand. We know that it affects, above all, women and children and that it is a crime so often invisible. In spite of this, the infringement shares recorded an increase of 22 % in 2018 compared to the previous year. 408 complaints were made to the security forces, but we also know that these complaints are only a small part of reality. We know of the shame, fear and guilt that prevent victims from speaking and that so often silence these crimes. We know that all this is supported by a judicial culture and a society that continues to blame the victims for what happens to them and to excuse the aggressors of the impulses which they have wanted! — they cannot control. The judgments which have come to the public — since the judgment of the ‘cut of the Iberian male’, of the Supreme Court of Justice, of 30 years ago, to the most recent judgment which was known as the ‘court of mutual seduction’, but also the positions of many people with public responsibilities in this matter, the articles of opinion or comments that have emerged around these sentences, unequivocally support the idea of victims, women, such as instigators, provocatives, seductors who have ‘put themselves in line’ and who have ‘were asking for them’. This culture of accountability for victims and of the aggressors is rooted and simultaneously justifies the naturalization and tolerance of sexual crimes against women. It is therefore necessary to recognize in the Criminal Code that a sexual act without consent is a crime of rape or sexual coercion. It is in the non-consent that lies behind the violence of the act and the nature of the crime. The persistent demand for a cumulative process of violence — the aggressor who is only when he exercises violence, the victim who is only when he proves to resist it and preferably with violence — dismisses the core of his nature: an unacceptable sexual act is, in itself, an act of violence! The existence of violence or serious threat should not be typical means of embarrassment, but rather aggravating circumstances of the penalty. The Penal Code also enables violations of sexual abuse, crimes they have — we all know! — a 'less reprehensible' connotation in society. It is a rare resource that allows us to judge rapes as sexual abuse and confer this enormous weight on the existence of violence. This is precisely the content of Article 36. the Istanbul Convention, which makes a clear warning: to treat things exactly as they are, to punish themselves for the crime committed, leaving no room for doubt that whenever there is no consent we are faced with a violation. The proposal of the Left Block gives shape to the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention, which Portugal has assumed to comply, in fact, with the first country ratifying it, and guarantees effective protection and effective justice to the victims of this absolutely abject crime and which constitutes the most extreme form of domination and subjugation of women. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u279	Mrs Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it must be said that it sends caution, especially in criminal law, that legislative amendments are not towed, and hot, concrete cases and media pressure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u281	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u282	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there will always be less correct decisions. However, this Assembly of the Republic cannot and should not be a judicial broker.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u284	Sexual crimes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are crimes that deserve our firm repudiation because they are attacks on sexual freedom and self-determination and affect the psychological integrity of their victims who, we know, are mostly women, thus setting up a very serious form of gender rape. I would therefore like to reaffirm here the continuing political commitment of the PSD Parliamentary Group to combat all forms of violence, in particular violence against women because they are women. Having said this, the authors intend, with these legislative initiatives, to replace the expression used in typification of crimes of coercion and violation. In other words, the substitution of «(...) by means of violence, grave threat or after, for this purpose, having become unconscious or placed in the impossibility of resisting (...)" by the expression « without consent», so the authors say, to accommodate all situations in which sexual practice did not obtain violence, serious threat, but was not duly consented. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the fundamentals underlying this amendment proposal, but it would imply a great extension of the objective forecast of the current types of sexual coercion and rape crimes. We are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to remove objective elements in the definition of crime, adding subjectivity. Especially in criminal law, where, like the others. Members will know, in accordance with the principle of typicality, that the conduct that constitutes crime must be as objective and as certain as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u285	More objective than 'no' is difficult!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u286	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we maintain the reservation, already expressed here in 2015, when we discuss this same topic that has to do with the introduction of an indeterminate concept such as that of the « non-consent », which we fear to be the generator of interpretative difficulties and law enforcement, to which additional evidentiary difficulties are added. As far as the public nature of these crimes is concerned, we also have reservations, ladies and gentlemen. These are crimes that fall within the sphere of each one's privacy. They are crimes, precisely because the legal value that you want to protect is sexual freedom and self-determination, and it is precisely freedom that is intended to ensure that you are committed to allowing a third party to file a complaint, even against the will of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, sex situations without consent can already be covered by the law in Article 164 ( 2 ). the, and it is not entirely fair for the Assembly of the Republic to say that Portugal does not comply with the Istanbul Convention, because this article was deliberately...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u287	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u288	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this article was deliberately amended here in 2015 in order to accommodate all sex situations without consent in Article 164 ( 2 ). o. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u289	The next intervention is by Mr António Filipe of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They propose BE and the NAP amendments to the Criminal Code with regard to the crime of violation, having as reference judicial decisions passed in court that were the target of public criticism on the basis that the penalties applied were too mild for the severity of the crimes contained in the charges. A relevant question is put here, which is whether the Portuguese criminal law, in the way it characterizes the crime of rape, covers all situations which must cover in order to prevent undesirable spaces of impunity. In 2015 the amendments to the Criminal Code adopted following the Istanbul Convention enabled progress in this area by not limiting the crime of rape to cases where there was violence. However, we can still discuss whether the current formulation is sufficient for the sexual act, which, because it is not consensual, to attack the freedom of sexual self-determination, to be punished as a violation. I believe that, at this point, there will be unanimity in this House. Crimes against sexual self-determination are very serious, must be punished as such and we must all work to find the best legal solutions so that this objective is not frustrated. However, in this respect, the proposals under discussion today are not coincidentally and any change in the criminalization of the crime of rape must be carefully thought out, so as not to frustrate the objectives that we all want to achieve. The initiatives that are proposed today, however, contain aspects that we disagree about. First, they propose increases in penalties that are disproportionate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u292	It doesn't make sense that the criminal frame of rape is the same as the murder.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u294	It is more than demonstrated that it is not the greater or lesser criminal framework that prevents the practice of crimes. Of course, serious crimes must correspond to serious penalties, but gross increases in penalties leading to an unbalanced and incoherent criminal system must be avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u296	We understand the intention of the proposers to aggravate the penalties beyond five years to avoid the suspension of the prison sentences, but this is a problem of the Criminal Code which cannot be solved on the part. Or go back to the decision taken a few years ago to allow the suspension of the execution of imprisonment sentences less than five years or to exclude certain crimes from the possibility of suspension. What cannot be done is to increase the penalties for certain crimes in order to avoid suspension of the execution of prison sentences.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u298	Secondly, we disagree about the consideration of rape as a public crime. We disagree precisely on behalf of the protection of victims' rights. A crime is considered public when such consideration is in the interests of society. The crime is semi-public and depends on complaint when it refers to the victim's interest the weighting of what to do in the face of the crime. Except in the case of minors, to whom the Penal Code has already provided an answer, forcing a victim of rape to participate in a process against his will may lead to a revitalisation that is counterproductive. In this respect too, the victim must have the right to self-determination, it cannot be instrumental in the realization of public justice. He argues, by analogy, with domestic violence. Although the situations are not identical, in the case of domestic violence, the victim is allowed to suspend the proceedings, which in this case is not proposed. Finally, it advocates the worsening of the proposed criminal regime with the idea of altering social consciousness in relation to certain types of crimes. The problem is that this is not the function of criminal law. Criminal law is a final intervention ratio for the protection of consolidated fundamental legal goods. It is not through criminal repression that social consciences are altered. We therefore conclude by saying that we share concerns about the need to find good solutions to the appropriate criminal protection of sexual crimes, paying attention to its enormous seriousness, but we do not identify ourselves with false solutions such as those proposed, which, being mediatedly seductive, are mistaken from the point of view of the interests of the victims and the coherence that should have an appropriate criminal policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u299	Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u300	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How is a violation proven? Like any crime. This should be the obvious answer and the right answer. The time of the cutoff of the Iberian male today does not fall into our Criminal Code. The sexist foundations that shocked the country do not correct themselves in the law, because the law simply does not accept them. That is why, like many people, by the way, for example of the Bible’s invocation to step on a woman, I went to the street, like others, to say “Massian justice is not justice”. But we cannot, as legislators transformed into case activists, go changing the law to zero the possibility of bad legal reasons. The PS is available to participate in a serious, difficult discussion, as are always those concerning criminal standards, and will make a short-term proposal with regard to the implementation of the Istanbul Convention on Victim Consent. What is at stake in these projects is to eliminate references to ‘violence’ or ‘serious threat’ in crimes of sexual co-operation and rape, in a formulation of which it is clear that there is a huge difference between — that is, I say — demanding non-consent and requiring consent for the type to be filled. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite different to demand non-consent and demand consent for the guy to be filled, because if that is the way, Mr. PAN, it ends sexual freedom as we know it today and we enter a wonderful new world, which I think we all repudiate. It is in this respect, and not only, that the NAP project fails and that the project of the Left Block emerges with the caution to keep in the type the presence of the constraint. Mr PAN, the construction of the criminal type without constraints is purely and simply unconstitutional. I insist that it is very different to demand, and well, in the type, non-consent and demand consent. Projects have serious technical problems. There were no essential opinions issued, but I can give some examples: indeterminate concepts, too broad, which promise confusion and risk of judicial arbitrariness; they include repetition as an aggravating circumstance, which is counterproductive, because it will lead some judges to condemn for a single crime repeated in the case of several crimes; it raises a clear question of constitutionality, because it would involve double criminalization for the same crime if there were effective competition; the worsening of the result is contradictory for sexual coercion and rape; it cannot be aggravated by "serious harm", because this concept does not exist in criminal law and therefore violates the principle of legality; " considerable gravity" is another non-existent concept; the reference to the attempt can only be lapsed because it already exists in Article 23. the Criminal Code. The Istanbul Convention does not require the violation, apart from the cases in which it already is, to be a public crime. Criminal law must make the exercise very difficult to balance the ends of sentences with the space of individual autonomy of the victim. We ask whether it is reasonable to go further than we have been in the last amendment to Article 178. the, because today, in certain circumstances, the Public Prosecutor may initiate the procedure even without complaint. Do we want to completely eliminate the burden of the victim's will, forgetting that his personal interest, due to unrepeatable circumstances, when devastated by a state imposition, can mean a kind of second death? We don't think so. We welcome, I repeat, the possibility of a debate on non-consent free of proposals that correct misconsent sentences with increases in punishment, which in no way protect the victims and which offend the rule of law. Let us do a serious job together, listening to entities and personalities who can contribute to a good change in these types of criminalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u301	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u302	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The essential of this debate has already been dealt with by the parliamentary groups of the PSD, the PCP and the PS. The questions on the table are exactly these. This is obviously a delicate and sensitive debate, because the question itself is delicate and sensitive. None of us — I think this is absolutely unanimous — will say that it is not right for any of the proposers to attend this debate. The concern is legitimate, it is a concern that we all have, but it cannot be resolved in the way in which the parties proposing these initiatives intend to resolve it. It is clear that this concern is related to a serious, very serious crime, which is one of the most vicious forms of attack on the dignity of people, especially women, because they are usually the victims of this crime; the incidence is higher in women. It is clear, too, and we all know this, that sometimes there are sequelae that are difficult to pass, many of them are even insurmountable, and we know that this type of crime has increased -- the 2017 RASI (Annual Internal Security Report) says so. But, I repeat, this is not the way to solve the problem. She's wrong in technique and she's wrong in motivation, at least in part of it. Lawmaking behind specific cases is always very dangerous and usually does not produce very good results. These are subjects that require weighting, study, very concrete hearings of people who have evidence on the subject. We need a lot of weighting. The way to solve the problem is wrong in the technique for three essential reasons, and the first, of course, concerns the issue of consent. Focusing everything around consent generates various difficulties, which have already been exposed here, from the outset evidentiary difficulties. If we go too far in this matter, we are in danger of being able to distort the principle in doubt. So we all need to be aware of what we are doing. This is a matter which cannot be treated with the lightness that you are dealing with. Members have put on these initiatives. We must consider and study the question of consent and see to what extent and to what extent this issue can be dealt with, otherwise we have fallen into the ridiculous need of a requirement to deal with these matters. The second reason, for example, is related to another issue that is left out, which has to do with sexual abuse of the hospitalized person. The hospitalized person may consent, but this consent is obviously conditioned. These matters are not dealt with by the diplomas, and they must therefore also be examined. Finally, Mr President, the third reason has to do with the construction of the Penal Code, which we believe must be reviewed. Our Penal Code has already been the subject of 47 amendments, but it urgently needs a systematic, stopped and in-depth review, which has to be a comprehensive review. The Penal Code effectively needs to be seen in its entirety. There are some economic crimes that have an overvalued weight in relation to some crimes against people. It's true! But we have to take the Penal Code and see it by wire, without harming its system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u303	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u304	I will finish, Mr. President. It is essential that the Penal Code maintain its system, and this cannot be reversed with the projects under discussion here. Therefore, the CDS presented in March 2018 a draft resolution to carry out this revision of the Criminal Code with a commission of criminalists. That is what we believe must be done, and this is one of the subjects to be dealt with at that headquarters. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u305	For an intervention to close the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the increases in criminal frameworks, on which several benches have shown their disagreement, it should be noted that these work as prevention beacons between a minimum essential to the stabilization of Community expectations and a maximum centred on the burden of the agent. Well, something's failing. the analysis of RASI 2017 results that the crime of rape was one of the only crimes that rose compared to the previous year. Sexual crimes not only do not decrease as they increase from year to year, which shows that current legal parameters are not functioning as a sufficient method of persuasion. The increase in criminal frameworks would put an end to the very high number of suspensions for the execution of the prison sentence. In 2016, the suspended penalty was applied to 58 % of the convictions for sexual crimes, which shows a serious disregard for these crimes. It is up to the State to trace the appropriate public policies to block this galloping reality. With regard to the repeal of the crimes of sexual abuse of a person unable to resist or be admitted, we believe that these crimes should not be autonomous, thus integrating the list of aggravating elements of sexual coercion and rape crimes because they are of greater reprehensibility. This revocation does not disprotect people who fall into situations of sexual abuse of the hospitalized person, since when it comes to consent, it speaks of a free, express and informed consent and not of consent coming from any institutional subjugation. As for the claim to attribute public nature to crimes of sexual co-operation and rape, we are fully available to hear the contributions of all parties in the field of specialty. We must not forget that there are many victims who do not or do not proceed with their criminal process due to fear of marginalization or retaliation. We have to change the paradigm. It must be based on the spirit of society that women who are victims of sexual crimes are not the culprits, but who abuse or rape them. Finally, and that for us is the most relevant issue, we believe that Portugal should properly apply the content of the Istanbul Convention, focusing on the verification of crimes of sexual coercion and violation of the existence or not of consent. In our view, our law is not clear on this point and it must be so that there are no margins for subterfuges: if there is no consent, there is violation and we will take the bill to the discussion in the specialty so that the best editorial is found.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u307	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is thus concluded. Before announcing the agenda for tomorrow, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emilia Santos to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1931 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the adoption of measures guaranteeing the access of all public transport users to the programme to support tariff reduction in pendulum movements, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-10.u309	The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda, with the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the National Investment Programme 2030. At the end of the debate, we will also proceed to vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of whom there will be elections for a Secretary and a Deputy Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, for a member of the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products, for a member of the Higher Council for Internal Security and for two Members of the Supreme Council for Cyberspace Security. I wish everyone and everyone else good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 23 minutes.]]
