ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following draft resolutions: No 2158 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Second School Manuel Cargalero ; No 2159 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to increase the crop and fruit programme and simplify the procedures with regard to the school system, which falls to 8. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the declaration of the state of emergency climate, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 2161 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Consecrate on November 26 as the National Day of Anemia, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; No 2162 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the means of the National Pension Centre and the provisional pension allocation to pensioners who are not employed, which falls to 10. the Commission ; points 2163 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of basic life support procedures, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; No 2165 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde and Côte d'Ivoire ; and No 2166 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tanks between 16 and 27 May 2019. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's agenda consists exclusively of a marking of the NAP for the assessment of draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Taking on extraordinary constitutional review powers to grant the right of suffrage to citizens aged 16 years. I can tell you from now on. Members, in particular to the leadership of the parliamentary groups, who will be required by the NAP to vote on that diploma at the end of the debate. Mr. André Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to vote is one of the most important elements of a democratic regime. The exercise of the right to vote is the mechanism which enables citizens to express their convictions and elect programmes, parties and their representatives. The more people have the ability to vote, the greater will be the representativeness and consequently the legitimacy of those who are elected. The consolidation of democracy requires an increase in the participation of citizens in the democratic process, which should be as inclusive as possible. It is therefore time to open the debate on the possibility of 16-year-olds having active electoral capacity, i.e. voting rights. The objective of the NAP is to start the debate on this topic in the space itself and with the dignity it deserves, as has happened across the globe in several countries of the Western world. We hope that there will be a serious and wide-ranging debate throughout the community, including people aged 16 and 17, all relevant entities, specialists working in the various areas of science related to the topic and non-governmental organizations. In short, we intend to bring civil society into the debate. Historically, there have been all kinds of limitations on the ability to vote, whether due to age, the alleged race or ethnicity, gender, economic, academic or social status. For example, the right to vote was first extended to women in New Zealand in 1893 ; this only occurred in Saudi Arabia in 2015. In Portugal, 200 years ago, only male citizens over 25 years of age who were employed were considered useful; 100 years ago, the right to vote was confined to male citizens over 21 years of age who could read and write and be heads of family; after 25 April, all citizens over 18 years of age can vote. We can conclude that the historical circumstantialism of countries, influenced by the vicissitudes of the political, economic and social environment, has an influence on the electoral capacity of citizens, and the tendency is to open the suffrage to an increasing fringe of society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u5	Sir, excuse me for interrupting you. I was asking the ladies. Members who would sit down and create the minimum conditions for the honourable Member who is in the use of the floor to be heard. Please continue, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition, several countries have already extended their electoral capacity to 16 years old, such as Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Nicaragua and Cuba, and in Europe, Austria, Malta, Scotland and several German states and Swiss cantons, or Greece, where it is already voted at the age of 17. In addition to those countries that have already extended the voting age, other countries are conducting the social and political debate with a view to implementing this measure, such as Estonia, Poland, Finland, Slovenia, the United Kingdom, Norway or Denmark. Austrian experience, more than a decade ago, has shown that there is a lower abstention in the 16 - 17 age group than in the 18 - 20 age group. A study conducted by the University of Vienna determined that the habit of voting is more easily acquired by the younger than by those who are 18 years old, adding that the quality of the vote, that is, the manifestation of choice in a particular party representing the effective opinions and interests of the voter does not differ from adults. The data also say that reducing the age of active electoral capacity promotes interest and participation in the electoral and democratic process, as well as demonstrating that their votes are reflected and weighted before the vote takes place. It is stressed that, in this country, the apologists of the maintenance of the age of electoral capacity at the age of 18 also used the argument of the lack of maturity and the lack of information among 16 and 17 year-olds, with the clear conclusions: 'It is necessary to participate in becoming interested in politics', and 'if they had to vote they would seek more information'. This same defends several Portuguese researchers and polythologists. The Council of Europe itself has defended the right to vote at the age of 16 since 2011, defending the reduction of electoral majority to the age of 16 in the 47 Member States of the organization, based on the fact that the current demographic trends lead to the tremendous risk of aging of the population, marginalising young people « by concentrating electoral debate on issues relating mainly to adult or elderly people », which « could endanger the stability of democracy at a time when social cohesion is more necessary than ever ». According to the report, this measure appears to be fundamental in the fight against abstentionism, which has risen, without exception, throughout Europe, in particular in the 18-24-year-old age group, demonstrating the studies supporting the explicit report that "the more young people expect to participate in political life less engage in adulthood". They say the studies and, more importantly, they say the data where this measure is already applied. Taking into the words of Mário Lambeiro, recognized as a pediatrician, «is it correct that persons aged 16 are not entitled to vote, i.e. cannot interfere in the choice of the various rulers who will, after all, make decisions that are decisive for their present and their future? Is this constitutional principle truly democratic? Do not keep on seeking. ” It is necessary to bring to the debate that at the age of 16, citizens and citizens are already criminally liable, i.e. they can already be arrested, i.e. the state assumes that they can distinguish good from evil, and they already have the capacity to enter into marriage and to profile. Also the legal minimum age for work is at the age of 16, when you are subject to the obligation to pay taxes and discounts for social security as any other citizen. at the age of 16, citizens and citizens have the legitimacy to require the change of sex and, from the age of 16, a pregnant woman does not need, and well, any authorization to decide on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. We are faced with enormous incoherence: the State recognises people under 16 years of age in these sensitive matters, the maturity and the ability to make decisions about the conformation of their lives, but does not allow them to choose the policies and representatives that decide what affects them in daily life. The examples of Malala Yousafzai and Greta Thunberg are paradigmatic and elucidative of the abilities of young people, who often only need an opportunity to express their opinions and concerns. In turn, polytologist António Costa Pinto argues that it makes no sense to take maturity into account in order to reject a proposal with this amendment, since « Voting is today something to which the society of the global has access, with many different levels of perception and maturity. This argument could be used for illiterates and for other types of voting conditions, which marked the democracies of the past." More widespread access to information and knowledge, brought by information and communication technologies, combined with improvements in the Portuguese education system, allows young people to be prepared at the age of 16 to make conscious and adult decisions about the destinations of society. The climate student strike, which took place this year, demonstrates how young Portuguese people are prepared to be included in the democratic process. This demonstration of knowledge and willingness to participate actively should be reflected in the allocation of active electoral capacity from the age of 16. After all, what risk do we face by extending the right to vote to the age of 16? in our opinion, none. We don't lose anything and democracy only has to win, because 16 is the new 18 years. Young people should have an active voice in the community and in defining policies that will influence their future. The contribution of all is fundamental to the construction of a more just and balanced society, a country and a better world. The consolidation of democracy requires a growing participation of citizens in the democratic process, which should be as inclusive as possible. Consequently, we believe that there is a need to start a debate, equating the possibility of carrying out a constitutional, extraordinary and punctual review, which allows the right to vote to young people aged 16 and 17. This is a simple change, which is not ideological and which has no budgetary or economic impacts, just so civilizational, an amendment that goes hand in hand with the society of the 21st century, which is out there in motion. Young people are tired of being ignored and not heard. The time has come for us to hear, or at least we should think about it, and that is the objective of today's debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u7	From now on, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. However, as they are from the same political party, in this case the Left Block, I would like to thank you, if any Member of the other parliamentary groups would like to sign up to ask for clarification, do so now, to ensure the alternance. [[Pause.]] Not being the case, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block Parliamentary Group or, first of all, congratulate the NAP on the schedule of this debate on the question of the right to vote from 16 years old. This issue has already been addressed in this House several times. Except for a mistake, during the last two constitutional revisions already made in the 21st century, the Left Block Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to present this measure for a number of reasons already listed here, but which I will repeat again because they are important for political debate. The first reason has to do with a liberal principle, it is said, of the late 19th and early 20th centuries: the idea of « there is no taxation without representation», which is the basis up to a large part of representative democracies and the guarantee of a fact-checking in relation to what is the responsibility of the citizen and his relationship with the state itself and the rule of law itself. The second reason is that, looking at the Portuguese legal building and the obligations that a young person may already have, just from 16 years old, actually leaves out the possibility of voting. As such, it is not understood why a young person, who, from the age of 16, can already make discounts for social security, can already answer criminally in the courts, cannot exactly have the possibility to vote. You can pay taxes, but you can't decide on those same taxes. Therefore, we agree on the principles. We also agree with the analysis that we make — an analysis that is important and that touches us at the door today, but that is also a historical analysis — on the role of the younger generations in the transformation of the world and the transformation of the society in which we live. Another reason for us to follow this proposal. We are obviously pleased with this NAP initiative, because this is something we have brought here in all constitutional reviews. I would just leave the next question to Mr Pannella: do you not think this amendment, this constitutional review of which we need to sin, just late? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u9	Mr André Silva, however, another Member was appointed for requests for clarification, thus moving to three entries. Before you give the floor, Mr President, I ask you how do you want to answer: individually or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u10	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u12	Mr President, Mr Luís Monteiro, I thank you for your question and your intervention. In fact, we believe that young people should have an active voice in the community and in defining policies that will influence the future, ours and theirs. The cohesion and consolidation of democracy, in fact, require a growth in people's participation, an extension to younger people, and that is why it is intended to be more inclusive. Democratic consolidation is more inclusive. Today, young people have a number of rights and duties recognised by the State. In fact, this inconsistency on the part of the State is not understood, which recognises these rights, these duties, those responsibilities, in order to decide and conform their lives to such sensitive and sensitive aspects, and which then does not give them the opportunity to vote, the power to decide the policies they want for their country, the power to decide who their representatives are. This is an important measure, which also fights abstention. Voting is a habit and what we are told by the various examples from other countries, what we are also told by studies from other countries and some Portuguese polythologists is that the sooner young people are invited to participate, democratically, in the life of the country and in the choice of their representatives, the less their abstention will be. We understand that this is the right time for this debate. No constitutional precept, no rule prevents the debate at this time and that it is concluded in this legislature or that it passes into another legislature. That's open. on the part of the NAP, there is no kind of imposition, quite the contrary, and therefore this is at the discretion of the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u13	To request clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Silva, of the PAN, the PSD does not abdicate to ask you some questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u15	But it looked like it. It took so long to sign up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u16	... because, over the last week, you said, as we had the chance to hear today, that this was the day the NAP would be giving a voice to the young people. in the PSD, we understand that the NAP is giving voice to the NAP, and we will not let it go.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u18	On the proposal we are discussing, Mr President, I would like to point out which of us is that, responsibly, the more he cares about young people and takes account of them or those who are most concerned about their representation and how — the honourable Member has said anything like that — is that the ambitions and concerns of young people are reflected in the actions and solutions proposed by each party. Now, in the PSD we have two things to tell you about what is being discussed today: the first is that we never steal a debate that is serious and that we do not have a closed attitude to the evolution of the constitutional text; the second, on the subject of young people's vote at the age of 16—it tried to make believe that this was what was being discussed—is that the PSD does not accept lessons either,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u20	... when it is said that this or that discussion is necessary, quickly, in a rapid farce, to give courage to young people. So much so that, every time we speak on behalf of the Portuguese, we also speak on behalf of the young people. And we do so even, Mr President - I do not know what it is like in the NAP - internally, not only externally. in PSD and JSD, young people are considered at every moment, regardless of whether or not they have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u22	In fact, he said in statements to the press this week that there are « clear advantages in extending the age group to these voters, since this will also make it necessary for parties and political leaders to draw up approaches to young people, to talk to them, which they do not do today». Mr President, I would like to say again that I do not know what it is like in the NAP, but in the PSD it is not because we are voters who will pay more attention to an electorate when he is under 16 or over 16.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u24	He knows that this is a political farce, from the moment he proposes an extraordinary constitutional review, which is very difficult to do — but he would like me to know what the deadlines he thought — could be solved until the end of the legislature. The honourable Member also said, as I said here, that "this is the time to do without any taxation, it can be now or from here to six months". But you also know—and please tell that to the young people! — that the initiative cannot be carried out within six months, because it will fall at the end of this legislation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u25	It's not being clear, it's not being serious. A week and a half of an electoral act and a little more than two months from the legislative elections, you are saying that whoever cares about young people is the NAP, because thanks to this intervention the NAP proposes and can ensure that young people vote at the age of 16, when you know that the process that would start, if approved by a majority of four fifths, would never allow this to happen in the time of this legislature or would hardly allow it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u26	Sure! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u27	But tell us how and how serious it is that you have set these limits. Mr President, I would also like to tell you that this idea of instrumentalizing young people, saying that you are more concerned with them and proposing something that actually gives voice to the NAP and not to young people, is not respectable to young people. You said — I suppose you understood that this also gave you popularity among young people — that sometimes young people are more aware and prepared than the political class. I must tell you, Mr President, that I tend to understand that anyone who does not respect does not win the respect of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u29	Mr President, tell me what young people are going to think about when they are attending this debate and realize that « in fact, this will not give anything in this legislature, falls at the end of it, a new process would have to be initiated and, after all, that you were not so prepared! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Or, Mr President, tell me whether you are just doing politics with the intention of saying that the young electorate must vote in the NAP because the NAP is very concerned!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u31	Sir, do you think you're serious? Does it seem to you that this is a political farce? Mr President, if it is a political farce, tell the young people that it is a political farce. And if you want to consider, then talk about the needs that young people have and that we do not forget. PSD does not receive lessons in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u32	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u33	The honourable Member said that he was available for an extended debate. When that time comes, we'll be here. But it is impossible to have an extended debate during the period that we have until the end of the legislature, and you know it. Or is it not true? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u34	To reply, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u35	Mr President, Madam Member, you say that the PSD never steals a serious debate and that we, the PAN, have said that we need and want to have a quick discussion. Where did you hear us say, in the media or in the explanatory statement of our 20-page project, that we are imposing a deadline? Oh, my God! What we say, and we repeat again, is that the deadline can end when the gentlemen. Members and parties understand, either at the end of this Parliament or at the next Parliament. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u36	You must be kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u37	And I answer with the following question: what is the norm or constitutional precept that prevents this debate from taking place in the next Parliament? [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u38	There's a new process!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u39	I'm sorry, but there isn't! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u40	Just with a new process!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u41	No, it's not with another process! [[PSD protests.]] Nothing says the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution that prevents it! Madam Member, speaking quickly or rapidly of the debate, I would like to say that we understand what the times are and what the notion and definition of the debate is at the bottom. Just look at the PSD and what happens in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, in which, for three years, hours and hours on the line, everything and something else has been discussed and the result is "nothing! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In fact, what you are used to, and what you demonstrate to the Portuguese, is absolutely unproductiveness and inefficiencies of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u42	This is inefficiencies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u43	We now had an opportunity to, basically, say and demonstrate exactly the opposite, but the PSD, like the other parties, when you don't want to debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u44	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u45	... finds formal problems where they don't exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u46	There is an own regulation for the NAP! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u47	The honourable Member said that it is not because they are not voters that the PSD does not pay attention to young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u48	Mr. Deputy said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u49	No, no. The honourable Member said that it was not for them to be voters that the PSD does not pay attention and does not talk to young people. The truth is, election night after election night, what you hear is always politicians concerned about the levels of abstention, saying that we have to do anything to make this change...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u50	You're confusing everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u51	No, I am not, because this is also a measure to combat abstention. They say so and then, for four years, in all legislatures, not the PSD, not the PS, not any other party tries to solve the problems of abstention so that it goes down. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] This is a tool, among many, to combat abstention. And the question I leave you with is: in recent decades, what has the Social Democratic Party done in this regard? What real mechanisms for combating abstention have you implemented or proposed? We don't know them, young people don't know them! [[Protests by PSD Members Joana Barata Lopes and Laura Monteiro Magalhães.]] Finally, with regard to the accusation of electoralism, I meant that if the NAP had proposed this legislative initiative two or two and a half years ago, when people who in 2019 were 16 / 17 years old and would benefit from it, I could even accept this charge of electoralism. But it is in the eyes of everyone and it is very clear that, regardless of the outcome of this vote and whether or not it is a committee for a constitutional review, never, at any time, if this is ahead, people currently 16 years old will vote in the European elections or in the legislative elections! [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the alleged whores who are beneficiaries of this proposal do not vote, so I do not understand this accusation, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u52	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is not the future, it is indeed the present. We already have education for citizenship, young people's Parliament or, yet, visits to the Assembly of the Republic, but what is at stake today is the recognition of young people as citizens now and not just as future citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u55	It is to recognize already this generation, which brings us very important warnings about the emergencies that old politics brings us, a generation that rises up to decide today about the world that will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u57	It is a generation that calls for urgent action. From March 15 onwards, thousands of young high school students left on the street. last Friday, dozens of them camped right here in front of the Assembly of the Republic. in Sweden, Greta Thunberg raises the voice against climate change. And they will continue to do so, even without being able to vote. Yes, even without being able to decide, they already influence the discussion in here today and tomorrow. State discourses and symbolic actions that highlight the importance of the political involvement of young people are not enough. We won't have enough flags. We need to be consistent, from the very moment that we can bring here the urgency that we feel on the streets; so that this generation, the voice of the world's conscience against the climate crisis, can also decide on the present that will shape the future without resorting to the same recipes of the past that brought us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u59	It is necessary to give a voice to those who occupy the streets today, to those who will camp here on Friday and to those who, on May 24, will strike again in all cities, people who occupy the streets, who occupy schools, and who must also vote and institutions. May they enter by these doors and decide also by our common place: the planet. If I understand, this was also the challenge that Mr President of the Republic, in his speech on 25 April, here left us: to open the door of the institutions, without paternalism, to the young people who stand up, who must be able to choose and be elected to represent the paradigm change they claim. We don't limit them to the galleries. But in today's interpellation, we just don't understand why this proposal is so shy and did not really open the constitutional review process, the only way to really achieve this goal, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u61	You know, in fact, you have that power. If so, why did you abdicate him, Mr? Why didn't you open a constitutional review process? Are we facing a proposal to take it seriously? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u62	To reply, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, thank you for your question. My answer is simple: this option, expressed in this initiative, presupposes a debate. It was a debate that the NAP intended to do in a noble space in plenary, and that will have consequences if there is a majority will of the Members. when opening an ordinary constitutional review process, we would have no debate on this subject... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u64	What matters, in fact, is to debate each other's position and make the constitutional revision if there is a majority of Members. I thank you for alluding to a new consciousness on the part of young people, a consciousness which, in fact, many adults and many politicians do not have to safeguard our planet. They are increasingly young people who have this environmental consciousness and who are reminded of what many adults with political responsibilities have forgotten. He also spoke of a very important issue, which is the paternalism that many parties — still happened with the PSD — demonstrate about young people. For us, the supposed lack of maturity or consciousness should not, in fact, be a valid argument. [[PSD protests.]] We must then equalize all kinds of immaturity, or consciousness, or responsibility. We ask ourselves: when, 45 years ago, the right to vote was defined at the age of 18, how many were illiterate? on May 26, from here to a week and a half, they will vote about a third of the adults. Are the two thirds of adults who will not vote mature, conscious and responsible? What is the behavior of adults on the road? Driving a car under the effect of alcohol is exclusively for people over 18 years of age. Are these adults mature, conscious and responsible? Why are there more adults in prisons than institutionalized youth? [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] The legislative framework which allows Mr. Commander Berardo to do what he has done and which he still enjoys with all of us has been prepared by whom? Oh, my God! By adult, mature, responsible and conscious Members? Oh, my God! [[Laughing.]] The legislative framework for banking regulation and supervision, totally permissive, has been prepared by whom? Oh, my God! By adult, mature, responsible and conscious Members? Oh, my God! This is what we have to answer, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this debate: whether or not we should extend this right to 16-year-olds, who are the new 18-year-olds, who are informed and who have decision-making capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u65	We move on to the following intervention by Mr José Manuel Pureza of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The worst thing we can do, I believe, is to devalue this debate as if it were eccentricities. It's not like that. This debate is a very important challenge for democracies such as ours, and that is how I think we should deal with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u68	When Greta Thunberg leads a great worldwide movement against climate change, with 16 years of age, young people and adults all over the world see in it what a demanding citizen in democracy should be. When Greta Thunberg, who is 16 years old, speaks to the authority of who represents an entire generation that is subject to environmental urgency, all generations, I am sure, even those who now make some critical observations, see in it what the vast majority of adults, who look only for their personal advantages, does not have: greatness, sense of the common good, shame, boldness, delivery! [[Congratulations from BE.]] In Portugal, young people can, from 16 years of age, work, pay taxes, can be arrested, can even be mobilized for military service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u69	16 years old? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u70	Who can assume all these responsibilities must be able to choose and must be able to vote. If the law allows a 16-year-old to have all these responsibilities, it is because he recognizes, and well, that these young people are mature for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u71	Yeah! Stop it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u72	It is not worth recognizing maturity for duties and not recognizing maturity for rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u74	It is the maturity of Greta Thunberg and the millions of young people who are coming to the streets who are shouting against the irresponsibility of those who run ahead, the usual ones in business, who demand that we have here the lucidity of magnifying democracy, recognizing the right to vote from the age of 16. The Left Block, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, defend this right for a long time, it is well known. We always defend it through the opening of constitutional review processes and, in 2004, the Left Block even came to defend the optional vote from the age of 16, maintaining compulsory registration from the age of 18. For that reason, I am glad that the NAP joins this cause. It is welcome to join this cause. The way in which you have chosen to do so is a draft resolution which recommends to Parliament that Parliament should have powers that Parliament has, at least, little formal care. But here we are to make this change a reality. That's what Greta Thunberg's generation requires us. That is what our responsibility for democracy and for the future demands of us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u75	You now have the floor, for an intervention, on behalf of the Green Green Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP brings us today, for discussion, a proposal that this House assumes constitutional review powers — this and that is the only proposal we are discussing today. Without wishing to make any judgment of value on the intention, cause or purpose of this proposal—which - it is recalled - is the consecration in the constitutional text of the right of suffrage to citizens aged 16 years old, a discussion for which the Greens express all their openness, as we have done in the past and on other occasions— which we believe is that the end of the legislature is not the right time for this House to assume constitutional review powers. It is not, of course, because if we look back, we find that, of the seven revisions that our Constitution has already known, none of these review processes has been achieved or completed within the time limit that we have today until the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u77	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u78	In fact, of these seven constitutional review processes, four of them lasted longer than one year, between one and one and a half years. It was thus with the revision of the Constitution of 1982, it was with the revision of the Constitution of 1989, so it was with the revision of the Constitution of 1997, and so it was also with the revision of the Constitution of 2004. As for the remaining constitutional review processes, although they have known a shorter temporal duration, none of them have been completed within the time we have now, until the end of the Legislature. Let us see: if, perhaps, this proposal was approved, we would have to wait for the presentation of the first draft constitutional review to then wait another 30 days so that the other Members who wished, eventually, would also be able to present their projects. Only then would the process be in a position to move forward, which would invariably refer us to August or, at best, to mid-July, and the legislature ends in September and, as we know, if the constitutional revision projects were not voted on in the legislature in which they were presented, expire.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u80	This is probably what would happen if this proposal were eventually adopted. If it is true that the deliberation for the assumption of extraordinary constitutional review powers can be done at any time, as, indeed, it has already been mentioned today, it does not seem very sensible to do so - four months after the end of the Legislature, still above there are interruptions of the work in plenary due to the electoral acts that are close and also because of August through the middle. in fact, the extraordinary revision of the Constitution represents a kind of safety valve to allow for advance review, but it is also true that it is necessary for its motivation to be associated with absolutely essential or unattainable elements. from there the specially qualified requirement of four fifths of the Members in effective functions to initiate the review process. We believe that, in this case, the purpose, intent or cause that guides this process is neither indispensable nor unattainable, even because, admitting that it would be objectively possible what can only by purely academic hypothesis be admitted, i.e. admitting that it would be objectively possible to complete the process in this short time of Legislation that remains with us, this decision would never have practical effects in the forthcoming legislative elections, such as, moreover, it has already been recognised here by the author of the project. This clearly attests that the purpose of the proposal is neither indispensable nor unwarranted, premise that it should be central when it is required to assume powers by the Assembly of the Republic for a revision of the Constitution from an extraordinary point of view. Finally, it should be noted that we are not before a common legislative process. In fact, when we talk about revising the Constitution, we talk about a special legislative process, given the relevance that the Constitution assumes in our legal order as the fundamental law of the country. For this reason, the constitutional architecture itself lays down increased requirements for its review. However, these requirements also stem from the need for the Constitution to ensure that the review process does not turn into an accelerated process, made in a hurry, on the knee and the horse mackerel. Therefore, in conclusion, the Greens do not follow the proposal for this House to assume constitutional review powers at this stage. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u81	With no registrations for requests for clarification, we shall proceed to the following intervention, which is the responsibility of the Socialist Party and which will be given by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, today's theme is the discussion on the extraordinary assumption of constitutional review powers. That, I remember, is the subject that is being discussed and not necessarily the matter of substance, because, in the debate on the matter of substance, it should be done seriously, with the time and with the weighting that is necessary. It is constitutional review that we are talking about and the analysis of what is truly extraordinary, or not, in what is presented to us. Truly extraordinary is not the process of anticipation or the assumption of powers of extraordinary revision; truly extraordinary is the way in which the text of the Constitution is instrumentalized, something that should be solemn, serious, weighted and of an extended discussion, at a pre-election moment, merely for campaign purposes. That does not respect the dignity of the constitutional text, that does not allow us to do the serious debate that is required, on such a fundamental subject as that of the exercise of suffrage, in order to say who is the holder of the right to use the vote to decide on the future. There are some old, radical visions. Thomas Jefferson said a constitution should be all, all, every magazine from 17 to 17. Interestingly, soon after he served as President of the United States, he changed his mind because he realized that there is, in fact, thoughtfulness, good sense and there is a need to reflect in detail on what is placed in a constitutional text, and he never spoke again about the matter in those radical terms, as he did. Stability is not a value in itself, but, in fact, to make a one-time, timely change on a relevant subject is to provide a bad service to democracy, it is to render a bad service to the Republic, it is to render a bad service to that which must be the way we view the constitutional text. Even more, at a time when, despite the many attempts and projects presented at various times, we have lived the largest period of constitutional stability since 1886. I repeat : since 1886 that, between constitutional changes and revisions of constitutional texts, we do not have such a long period of stability, which is very revealing of maturity, and let me use the term'maturity' — of the functioning of democracy. However, this is not only a bad service to safeguard the constitutional text, it is also a bad service to the subject itself which is intended to discuss. Despite the different positions, however, even the fact that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did not put the issue in its electoral programme and did not have a reflection on it, as many parties do not have, but, precisely, to safeguard the dignity that the issue deserves, a truly national debate should be ensured, a debate that could be held over time, a debate that duly weighed the comparative experiences, that is, not only those who did so, but also those who, overwhelmingly and mostly, still do not do so. I am saying again that I have a personal position on the subject and that I am not in favour of this option, but I am not even speaking on behalf of my party or my Parliamentary Group. I stress, yes, another thing: there must be time, there must be thought, there must be capacity to have this debate with the academy, with civil society, on its own site, without any rush, without an attempt to insert into the parliamentary agenda, where it no longer falls, something which should not be here. One more thing is added: in this debate we must also regret the seriousness, we must not miss the truth and we must not distort the facts. It is said that if you want to fight abstention with this measure, because nothing has been done, because the government, the House, are all inert and nothing does, it is not to recognise that in this legislature we have already moved into electoral legislation several times. We have not seen any NAP proposals on this subject at any time. in this Parliament, as never before, the possibility of early voting has been extended, which will be in force in the next European elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u84	... as it has never been on the table before in elections for the Assembly of the Republic or any other body, such as the European Parliament; it has never been so thoroughly cleaned of the electoral books; it has never invested so much in removing obstacles and simplification, with the elimination of the number of voters; and we will already have, on the next day 26, pilot electronic voting experiences. It is said that nothing has been done to justify the unjustifiable is also not to do a good service to this debate, which deserves another weighting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not resist another note about something that has been said recently, regarding the intervention of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes. A short time ago, in a reply to Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, it was said: « Well, look at transparency, where nothing has been done! Look at transparency, where nothing has happened! Do not keep on seeking. ” I cannot but ask: why did the NAP not present a single proposal for a change in the political system, a single proposal on transparency, a single proposal on lobbies, a single proposal on the Statute of Members, a single proposal on the system of incompatibilities? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why did the NAP not opt to join the Transparency Committee, formally or participating in it? And how can it be said at the end of this work that we know it took us, we know that they are not perfect, we know that they have their inadequacies, but in fact they have produced three legislative amendments, which are about to be voted on in the global final vote, and which, in fact, represent very significant advances to the whole of Parliament, prestigious the parliamentary institution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u86	...and take firm steps, not perfect, I'll say it again, why can't you always have everything? Oh, my God! I quote, often, the Rolling Stones : « You can’t always get what you want», we can’t always get everything we want, but we can take steps, we can move forward and that’s exactly what we did. So the final question, which I leave in the air, is this: what's the hurry? It is incomprehensible and therefore, without dignity, in 25. the hour, and no serious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u87	Really? Oh, my God! "What's the hurry?" Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u88	...on this subject... seriously! What's the hurry? That's the question I'm leaving. Why do we have to rush into a matter that must be dealt with with with with all thought and tranquility? Oh, my God! It won't be on 25. the time that we will make good changes, will not be in 25. the time we can really ensure what's on the table. It is that, even for those good examples of young people that Mr. José Manuel Pureza recently gave, like Malala Yousafzai, who did not quote, but could have cited, or Greta Thunberg herself, who before his 18 years are examples that must be followed by everyone, the question that I think we can legitimately ask is whether this is enough to create a new regime and whether we have enough cases to justify it. I think this is a pertinent question, which we should be able to ask, but we do not really have time to do it, and surely this time of legislation that we lack is not the right time. But there is an appropriate time now when we turn around the corner: we will have an electoral act for the Assembly of the Republic, we will have the opportunity to put the subject in our political programmes and to have this debate on our own place, where it should take place, which will not be here today. For this reason, the Socialist Party will not follow the proposal and we believe that there should be no assumption of powers of extraordinary constitutional review. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u89	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This debate is indeed a shadow game, because it is not about what it claims to be. This House is not discussing the question of the right to vote — whether it is at 16, whether it is at 18 or at the age of 18 — for the simple reason that this is a constitutionally closed issue and therefore can only be discussed in a constitutional review process. Well, are we in a constitutional review process? We're not here either! If Mr André Silva wanted to initiate a constitutional review process, he would do so. The Assembly of the Republic has powers of ordinary constitutional review and any Member presenting a draft constitutional review immediately opens a constitutional review process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u91	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u92	Therefore, if you wanted a constitutional review, you would not propose what you propose here, you would present a draft constitutional review.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u95	So, what we are doing is discussing an election box by Mr André Silva: he does not want a constitutional review, or he is rejected by this House a project...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u96	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u97	... which, allegedly, aims at a constitutional review process. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] That is why he proposes what he has nothing to propose, that is to say, that the House assumes powers that it already has. Well, let's see this: it would be a surgical constitutional review. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no surgical constitutional revisions, there are constitutional review processes. I open a constitutional review process, with the presentation of a draft constitutional review, opens a 30-day period so that any Member is an individual right of Members, may present his own draft constitutional review, after what constitutes a possible committee for the constitutional review, to debate, one by one, the proposed amendments which are presented. Therefore, there is no surgical process that a member of Parliament can trigger, there are 230 surgeons in this House,... [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ...and anyone could propose their own surgery...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u99	... and all of them would have to be necessarily discussed by the possible committee for the constitutional review.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u100	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u101	Is there time for that? Obviously, there isn't! It is materially impossible to carry out a constitutional review process at this time. It is enough to remember that we already had three extraordinary review processes—and it was extraordinary, because it had to be extraordinary, since at that time the House had no ordinary constitutional review powers, as it has today—and the first of them, in 1992, took 158 days, the 2001 one lasted 6 months and the 2005 one, only for a transitional definition that never served anything, remained 83 days. It is clearly impossible at this time of the legislature to initiate and carry out a constitutional review process. Mr André Silva knows this perfectly and knows that any initiative now presented would obviously expire at the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u103	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u104	It does not ignore this and, not ignoring this and presenting the proposal it submits, it is not dealing with this subject with the seriousness it deserves. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] This issue is serious and we will be here to discuss it with all seriousness, when it is seriously presented, which is not happening today. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u105	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that, in fact, at least from my personal point of view, Mr André Silva came here today with a project and with a difficulty, because it was not easy, at all, to demonstrate to the House that this project was a serious intention, that it had content, that it had form, that it had method and that it was not merely a NAP number for any electoral effect. at the end of this discussion time, I must say to Mr André Silva that he did not help much to that goal, especially when, at some point, he told us: "No, this is not for now, it is for the next Parliament! In fact, it could not have been otherwise, as Mr.António Filipe has just demonstrated. It would never be for this legislation. So, having arrived here, Mr André Silva, I must tell you, soon to open it, that, in relation to the seriousness of this intention and its project, I will quote the same authors who have already been quoted by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, Mr Jagger and Mr Richards : « I can’t get in satisfaction», Mr! [[CDS-PP laughter.]] In fact, we cannot be satisfied with what has brought us here today, as it is evident. however, the question of content exists, Mr President, the fundamental question exists. The debate is absolutely legitimate, that is not what is at stake. And, on the discussion, I even tell you: as has been mentioned, it is true that we have no proposal on this subject, but this is a subject which, at the very least, we are available to discuss. I have a personal opinion on this, which is not even relevant now, but we think this can be discussed. However, that is not what is at stake. What is more, you must also be strict on the subject of content and, in my opinion, it is not so much because you are trying to create a little illusion, and some press can go after it. The honourable Member refers to the Portuguese case, beginning with a very old history—it is all right—and then passes on to Europe. Those who read your proposal carefully, with due respect, have the idea that the European rule is to be in favour of this. You have this idea, because you point out that the 47 members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have defended this reality. However, if we look carefully at the resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we can read : « investigate ». I still use Shakespeare's language too much, but this term is translated into Portuguese : « investigate» means « investigate », « study ». That is what the Council of Europe proposes, i.e. the resolution of the Council of Europe, to the limit, could be subscribed by me. With the Council of Europe argument, which is that there are many elderly people and, therefore, putting more new people to vote can balance electoral concerns—that is the argument, it is not another! — I think it is possible to study, investigate whether it makes sense or not to lower the age of vote. That is what the resolution says, which, moreover, Mr — I must say that it is curious — has obtained 19 votes against 7 in a Parliamentary Assembly with 324 members. Finally, it is what it is and has to be seen with proper weighting and due relevance. In addition, you speak of the 47 members of the Parliamentary Assembly, but of the 47 members, how many approved the age of vote at the age of 16, as you seem to propose? It was two! It was 2 in 47 and in the European Union it is the same thing. So in Europe, so far, having an age of 16 is almost an absolute exception, in fact, until recently this happened in one country, Austria. So the rule, in European terms, is not to have, it is not to be 16 years old to vote. Then he uses an argumentary, which, moreover, the Left Block shares, and is a legitimate argumentary, in which I think that there is a need for some balance, which is the issue of « can this, they can do it». It's true, but even what you can and what you give as an example... can you marry? You can, with parental permission! That's the rule! Permission may be granted in certain cases, but the rule to marry is to have parental permission. Are you going to vote with your parents' permission? That's not the case! Then we heard here also the old liberal rule in taxation without representation. It's actually Shakespeare the more, but finally... Now, the rule of minors working at the age of 16 is the exception, but that's not what it's supposed to be, that's not the goal. And, conversely, it could even be asked: then, those who, when they are 18 or 19 years old, cannot vote? Mr President, it makes no sense and I am just showing you that all these arguments are rebuttable, require reflection, require weight. Even the Austrian case is not sufficiently studied. And we can even question this situation this way: does this have to do with active electoral capacity, but then, and passive? Oh, my God! If they can vote, can't they be elected? We have to think about this! And if they can be elected, will an electorate have no parental permission to move abroad? [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] Or to buy a car? Or in order to be able to drive, to move to your electoral circle, why, for example, can't you drive? All this has, of course, to be the object of reflection, it has, of course, to be pondered! In terms of passive electoral capacity, I would even suggest, perhaps, that of the President of the Republic, which is the highest of all. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] If you can vote at age 16, you should be able to be elected... I don't know! I don't know, Mr, we can think about it, as it is obvious, but these are fundamental issues, and I am not talking about others not to lengthen. I would just like to tell the honourable Member that this issue is not unanimous and that it is not even unanimous among young people. Some studies, some journalistic reflections, or not, tell us that young people themselves often question this reality, and there are, in fact, youth organizations and even youth political organizations that do not profile this idea, i.e. there is not exactly a cry for this right to be attributed, regardless of whether we find — I think — that society can reflect on it. But what was reasonable here was to propose that a reflection be made, that a study be created, that a survey be made, that governmental bodies, or not, capable, should be able to reflect on this, and not exactly on their idea, their suggestion. This leads us to the method. And as explained here, and very well, by Mr António Filipe, the Assembly at this time because there have been more than five years on the last constitutional review process, exactly in accordance with Article 284. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which you referred to, has ordinary revision powers. There's no doubt about it! The Assembly has ordinary review powers and the majority, to initiate an ordinary review, is smaller than the majority to initiate an extraordinary review. So why does you want the most difficult and not the easiest? Strange reasoning, Mr. Deputies! It is that if what you wanted was a constitutional review process, you would give your proposal to the Bureau and the procedure was open.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u107	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u108	Therefore, you do not want a constitutional review process, you want to make a number to say that the NAP defends this matter and that the NAP is ahead of the other political forces in this same matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u109	Like he's the only one! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u110	Even because it has already been shown that there would be no useful time for that same review. Mr President, imagine that the honourable Member could not manage the two-thirds, but the four-fifths, since he followed the most difficult path, and the project was approved. The other parties had one month to also present constitutional revision projects. My party would not only present this, it would probably not present other things that we consider relevant. Moreover, we have even asked the other parliamentary groups whether or not they had agreed to open a constitutional review process on the matter of justice, which is, for us, the priority in terms of constitutional review. The other parties, particularly the largest, said that we did not and we did not give ourselves to the work of doing unnecessary work and obliging the Members. Ladies and gentlemen are here a whole afternoon discussing a reality that does not exist and will not happen. But, honourable Member, imagine that the process was open. From that point on, there was a month for the parties to submit proposals, which would not be limited, as explained here, and the work would start-CL. Now, we would interrupt for the European elections, then the holiday period would be incontrovertible. This means that you were going to make a quick revision, and you were going to make a quick-think review, with a point that makes sense to be discussed, with a matter that makes sense to be thought, but which is not, in fact, discussed, weighted or matured in Portuguese society. Mr President, on the limit, he said that he would thus be « in the next legislature ». Mr President, I am sorry to tell you, but this is a bit of a joke with us because you are not making proposals for the next legislature. For that, Mr President, one thing is missing: you need to be elected!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u111	First of all, you have to be a candidate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u112	It is simply not the projects that fall at the end of this legislature; in the next legislature there will be the elected Members. Of course, I am convinced that the honourable Member will be elected — I assume so, because of the data we have — but I, the honourable Member and all the others, none of us are automatically elected to the next legislature. So if you wanted to say that the NAP is going to propose this matter for the next legislature, you would go to that closed hall we have next to the Lost Steps, you would hold a press conference and say: "The NAP in the next legislature will open a constitutional review on the right to vote at age 16". Those who agree, who do not agree, do not agree, but, Mr President, we were spared this, which is in fact a bit of trouble, rather unnecessary, and is no more than a number of the NAP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u113	Mr Telmo Correia, no Member has signed up for clarification. Therefore, for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear that the PSD does not close the door to this issue! But we must be strict and clear with the young Portuguese: it is not through discussion of a proposal of this nature, a proposal that has already proved to be ineffective, that we will achieve whatever it is. In fact, it is not less than five months from the end of the legislature that is the right time for us to discuss a matter with this relevance to young Portuguese people. We cannot preach to the four winds that we are giving a voice to the young Portuguese, when we all know that it is materially impossible to implement the proposal that is in the diploma presented by the NAP in this temporary period. This proposal, in this timing, does not seem to be more than a political deception. Let us be clear, open a constitutional review process in the full electoral period and less than five months from the forthcoming legislative elections is not possible. And that is why this proposal is ineffective and does not go through mere populist action. What we could be discussing today could have something to do with young people and their needs, their real needs. Young people who aspire to their autonomy; young people who want their emancipation, but who encounter obstacles along the way, young people who do not hesitate to fight for reasons with which they truly identify themselves, but who are tired of traditional forms of civic participation. We could be discussing the answers to their anxieties and we could be discussing their demands, which are legitimate, but which the State, especially in this governance, has failed repeatedly. To give young people a voice is to guarantee them a quality education, to teach them and prepare them for civic and political participation in the community.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u115	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u116	An education that prepares them for globalisation, because it is urgent to rethink and build a school for the future. We're almost on 4th. the Industrial Revolution, but in our schools — in its essence – continue to preach 1 learning methodologies. the Industrial Revolution. And these, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not prepared for the new demands of the labour market. The NAP talks about the need to give voice to young people. It's true! Young people need more participation and we also need the participation of young people in society. But this becomes more difficult when they hypothesize their future, because they come from economically disadvantaged families, often having to abandon their academic training. The time of young people, young people who attend higher education, does not coincide with more than six months waiting for a definitive response to their requests for support, social action. Young people cannot be selected by their socio-economic origin. Young people who are in higher education and who have a more disadvantaged socio-economic situation, what really disturbs them is, for example, not having the scholarships paid in time and time. So there are not many days when we still had more than 11 000 students waiting for a final answer, a social action support for this school year that is coming to an end. Yes, that's true! About a month ago, 11 000 students were waiting for a final response of social action support for this school year that is ending. And what about the lack of homes? More than 120 000 public higher education students are displaced and the national coverage rate of social housing for these young students is only 13%. Obviously not enough, as you will know! This is the most qualified generation ever, but we must not forget that the labour market is changing, with the challenges brought by artificial intelligence and digitization. And, therefore, innovation, technology and digitisation must go hand in hand with education and training. But this generation, despite being the most qualified of all, sees its services being paid at balance prices. Although many young Portuguese have a degree, they are unable to pay the rent of a home. Those who venture out of their parents' homes in these conditions are only by a shared house and there are very few who dare to think about having their own home, because, despite their employment and taking up low wages, not rarely, that same job is precarious. It is true that the beginning of the active life of young Portuguese adults depends, among others, on access to housing, being one of the factors that hinders their autonomy and subsequent family constitution. Portuguese youths cohabit with their parents for much of their adult life and many of them then, when faced with undesirable unemployment situations, return to the parents' home. In fact, the beginning of the active life of young Portuguese adults also depends on this structure and the State is responsible for boosting the conditions for this. And what has been done? Little, very little, and this should be one of the priorities to give voice to young people. We have Door 65 Young — that is true! — but this programme, despite the proposals made by the PSD, has not given sufficient and comprehensive answers to young Portuguese people. Port 65 Young may even have budgeted money, but its execution leaves much to be desired. We have a government and a majority who passed a legislature to criticize the housing law of the previous government, but for four years nothing did in particular that it was effective and produced results. When we have young people who, despite having good qualifications, have precarious jobs and low wages, who cannot, for example, have access to a universal right, such as housing, how can we expect low birth rates to rise? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To give voice to young people is to give them conditions so that they can live their youth in full; to give voice to young people is to give them conditions so that they can have true emancipation; to give voice to young people is to debate and solve their real problems, those that affect them and worry them every day. And it is exactly what has been listed that really worries the young Portuguese and that is not being discussed. We have many ways to contribute so that young people can live better and encourage their civic participation. To launch a constitutional review less than five months from the legislative elections and, by the way, to have a European election is not at all the most serious way to deal with this issue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u117	Mr Trigo Pereira has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This NAP initiative can be discussed by form, time or substance. I do not agree with the way, I do not agree with the time, but I agree with the substance, and in this last sense I will speak and vote. Quoting a little better, and slightly correcting my dear friend Pedro Delgado Alves, in fact, Thomas Jefferson wrote that no society can make a perpetual constitution or a perpetual law and, in the letter to James Madison, dated September 6, 1789, basically said that, from 19 to 19 years old, there should be a renewal. And, indeed, there must be a renewal of the political system, which can go through various aspects: through the electoral system—and we will not review it in this legislature—and by the age of vote—and we will not change it in this legislature—and because of something I hope that we will change in this legislature, which is the legislative initiative of the citizens, i.e. the possibility of citizens presenting proposals in accordance with the project I have tabled. Today, we are talking about something and I want to be incremental about what was said, and well said, by André Silva and, also, by the Block of Left. I want to bring you four data: in 1975, 8, 4 % of the population was between 15 and 19 years old and 9, 9 % of the population was over 65 years old ; in 2017 it is estimated that only 5, 2 % of the population was between 15 and 19 years old and 21, 5 % were over 65 years old. Finally, I wanted to say the following: the new generations are underrepresented. They voted in Brexit for the maintenance of the United Kingdom in the European Union, and it was the old generations who voted for the exit. With regard to climate change, the same is true: new generations are much more sensitive to this issue than old generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u119	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u120	Thus, we must adapt our political system, our concept of citizenship to the demographic transformations of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u121	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, when it comes to the NAP initiative, this same party has the right to close the debate. Therefore, and having a request for Mr André Silva's intervention, I give you the floor, starting with the assumption that no one else intends to intervene. Before I give the floor to Mr André Silva, I would like only to remind the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that will follow requires electronic registration, because it is a vote that lacks a majority of four fifths. So, in order to close the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have come to the end of this debate with the clear impression that all the arguments put forward by the different party forces in favour of our initiative are converging and disfigured from what is intended. As we have been demonstrating, a constitutional amendment which implements the right to vote at the age of 16 has associated several positive aspects that we want to strengthen. Firstly, I would oppose the disparity that exists in our legal system, where 16-year-olds are given responsibilities, rights and duties — some in extremely sensitive matters — but they cannot vote. Secondly, the source of information and the potential of young people in this increasingly globalized world must be capitalised, filled with much more informed, enlightened and conscious young people than they have been for decades. Thirdly, science tells us that the sooner you can vote, the sooner young people are brought to active political participation, and the possibility of participating is seen by these young people as a privilege and not as a duty. Fourthly, it is fair to value the opinion of these young people at the time of decision-making on current and pressing social issues affecting them, now or in the future, such as unemployment and job prospects, environmental issues, the educational system and family policy, thus making them an effective part of solving these problems, which will also make politicians feel compelled to draw up approaches to young people. Finally, this is an effective measure to combat high rates of abstention and which consolidates democracy, as it is more inclusive. The entities and countries that are aware of the existence of all these positive elements that support the implementation of the electoral capacity active at the age of 16, as already mentioned, begin to evolve. The present situation and the cross-section of the debate speak for itself is undisturbed. We did not succumb to accusations of electoralism or bad timing. As for electoralism, we don't understand the charge. If we could benefit from the implementation of the age of voting at the age of 16, we could still understand this argument, but in this context it is simply inexcusable. With regard to the bad moment, we reiterate that our aim is to bring this issue to debate, which must be thought and reflected, with the audacity of all the necessary entities, in order to achieve a solution that is beneficial to the country, translated into the extension of active electoral capacity to 16-year-olds for all the reasons exposed. We do not want to impose deadlines. The debate will last as long as it takes until satisfactory and sustained answers are reached. It seems to us that the times are never appropriate, when you are not interested in discussing certain matters, which makes us wonder whether, indeed, the reservations of the Members. Members refer to the moment. More than that: since they do not want to debate, they say that others are not serious and hide behind supposed bureaucratic legislative processes or subjective value such as constitutional stability. This is a debate that if you want to be serious, free from bias, since what is at stake here is the realization and consolidation of democracy, which if you want to be more inclusive, which seems to us to be, or must be, far above politics, that you are not able to move away. We intend to start the debate with the opening of a constitutional, extraordinary and punctual review process, which aims only to change a number, because the 16 are the new 18. And, yes, of course, it is possible to make this amendment, so there is a majority will of the parties with parliamentary representation. No constitutional norm or process prevents Parliament from starting this debate and returning to the next legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u123	That's populism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u124	The Constitution does not prevent it and the Rules of Procedure provide that. The duration of the debate, which must be extended and whether it is comprehensive, inclusive and involved, is no impediment to it, with the approval of the proposal we are bringing here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u125	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u126	Young people are tired of being ignored and not heard. The time has come for us to hear and give them voice and power to choose their representatives, to choose whom they most trust. If the moment is not now, it will be in the near future. We will see, in the debate that we will bring about soon, whether timing is correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u127	Mrs. Members, with this last intervention, we will close the debate of draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. a, but since the NAP requested its vote, the voting period is followed. So he asked the services to activate the system, so that we could carry out the electronic verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic framework records 201 presences, to which are added those of the MPs Pedro Filipe Soares, the Block of Left, Pedro Delgado Alves, the PS, André Silva, the PAN, and Marco António Costa, the PSD, making a total of 205 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. I now call on the services which have the electronic voting system again to proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Taking on extraordinary constitutional review powers to grant the right of suffrage to citizens aged 16 years. I'm asking the ladies. Members who vote in favour of standing up and holding the green button. [[At the moment, the members of BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira rose.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain, please stand up and press the white button. [[At the moment, the PSD members have risen to Simon Ribeiro and Duarte Marques and the PS MP Ivan Gonçalves.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]] I'm asking you to get up and carry on the red button the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against. [[The PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens have now risen.]] Mrs. Members, looking at the results in the electronic framework, it is obvious that draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. she didn't get...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u128	So the PAN abstained? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u129	Mr President, there is clearly an electronic error. I'm sorry I didn't ask permission to talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u130	If this is at this age, imagine what would be at 16! Did you load all the buttons at the same time? Oh, my God! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u131	Mr President, I understand that if an abstention from the NAP appears in the electronic table, there must be a mistake — at least one. I therefore ask the services that have the electronic voting system to repeat the vote on draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. a. The gentlemen. Members who vote against please stand up and press the red button. [[The PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens have now risen.]] Anyone who abstains rises up and loads on the white button. [[At the moment, the PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Cristovão Simão Ribeiro and PS Deputies Ivan Gonçalves rose.]] Those who vote in favour stand up and press the green button. [[At the moment, the members of BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira rose.]] Mrs. Members, the result of the vote on draft resolution No 2143 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — The assumption of extraordinary constitutional review powers to establish the right of suffrage to citizens aged 16 years is as follows: it was rejected with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, and abstentions from PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro and PS Deputies Ivan Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u133	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u134	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, in the second vote, I could not vote electronically. For me to be recorded, my sense of vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u135	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves also spoke. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u136	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose. The system did not work and was to add a vote against the PS to the count.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u137	The system is always the great one responsible for everything that happens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u138	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u139	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u140	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the same is true of two Members of the CFP. Mrs Ana Mesquita and Mrs Carla Cruz did not register at that second vote either, but, as is visible, they are present and voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u141	And what was the point of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u142	They voted against it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asks me for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u144	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u145	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u146	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u147	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u148	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I shall then give a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u149	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u150	Mr President, I also ask for the floor to correct the data visible in the electronic table. There were only two abstentions on the PSD bench. I should also like to inform you that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u151	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u153	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u154	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u156	Mr President, I also ask for the floor to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u157	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. She also asks Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u158	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that my sense of vote, as well as that of Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, was not recorded in the second vote. That's two votes against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u159	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Although it has no effect on the overall vote, it is important for the individual vote of each vote to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u161	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u162	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that my sense of vote, which is against, has not been recorded either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u163	I'm glad most of the votes against were recorded! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u165	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u166	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-14.u167	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We have reached the end of the plenary session. The next session will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 15 May, at 10 a.m. Attention that the beginning of the plenary sessions at 10 a.m. will cease to be the normal practice here at some time, because today, at the Leaders' Conference, we come to the conclusion that we will have to start several times at 9 a.m. in the morning meetings. however, tomorrow's plenary will still start at 10 a.m. in the first point, there is Interpellation No 27 / XIII / 4. a (BE), on climate emergency. In the second point, there is no time allocated for discussion, Bill No. 1189 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ) — Procedures for the authentic interpretation of Article 1041(7). the Civil Code, added by Article 2. the Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February establishing measures to correct situations of imbalance between tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban lease and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. There is also, at the third item on the agenda, also without time allocated for discussion, the motion for a resolution No 91 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. on the fourth and final item of the agenda, see the vote. I wish everyone a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 43 minutes.]]
