ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 34 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the Authority to open the galleries to the public. Before opening the agenda, I request Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Duarte Pacheco, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following diplomas: Bill No. 1241 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates inequalities in the allocation of the additional fixation to staff of the Prison Guard Corps in functions in autonomous regions ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2014 of 9 January 2014 ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; Draft resolution No 2234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the integration of Poceirão and Marateca into the municipality of Palmela as disadvantaged areas, which falls to 11. Commission ; Draft resolution No 2235 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government approve its own legislation to correct the distortions in the remuneration table as well as the inequalities caused by changes in the remuneration position of entry into the general career of superior technician, resulting from the transition of careers imposed by Law No 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, which falls to 10. the Commission ; Draft resolution No 2236 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government compensate for the death of Avelino Mateus Ferreira in the same manner as the other victims of the 2017 fires, thus ending with a situation of extreme injustice, which falls to 7. the Commission ; Draft resolution No 2237 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the government the early completion of the process of classification of the Factory Trust building, which falls to 12. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution No 2238 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends requalification of the Basic School of Germany, Grouping of Romeu Correia Schools, in Almada. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the first item on the agenda, which is made up of political statements. First of all, for a political declaration, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the most comprehensive measures achieved in this Parliament was the freeness of school textbooks throughout compulsory education. At the initiative of the PCP, it was one of the objectives for this legislature and will cover more than one million students. The school textbooks for all compulsory schooling cost about 1500 € on average, almost 120 € per year, having years in which expenditure is significantly higher. in a context where Portugal is still one of the countries of the European Union where the most direct costs have with education and in which low wages proliferate, the freeness of school textbooks is to establish justice and a measure of undeniable value in promoting equality in access to education. Having overcome the obstacles that have prevented its approval, it is now necessary to overcome the obstacles that prevent its full implementation. This is what is happening with re-use, whose imposition is becoming a free manual sabotage operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u6	To make it dependent on the freeness of school textbooks of their reuse, in accordance with the terms assumed by the Ministry of Education in declarations to social communication, is only to find a pretext to walk back in one of the most important measures that have been achieved in recent years. The CFP always warned the didactic-pedagogic arguments that demonstrated that reuse would be impossible in significant periods of compulsory education and, in particular, in paragraph 1. the cycle. We always said that reuse could not be an imposition that would serve to exclude students and families from free.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u8	What happened during the implementation of the measure and, above all, the situation that is currently being created in schools shows that the criticisms that the PCP was pointing to the implementation of the program were correct. After all, the penalties provided for in the Ministry of Education's offices, which allegedly and according to the Government, would only serve as a deterrent and would never lead anyone to have to pay the manuals or to be excluded, here they are now being applied. There are cases in which parents are obliged to pay the manuals used, sometimes as a result of their previous use by which they were not responsible; of families threatened with the exclusion of access to the program the following year; of teachers in line with schools with rubber in their hands to erase the manuals, including those that were painted or underlined with color pencils according to their own exercises. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it might be thought that this is a nonsense played by ultra-zealous people of strict application of government offices or by those who do not support the measure of free manuals. But the government's inertia in this scenario, in several schools and groupings, the permanent excuse for financial sustainability and the hidden and disfigured form as the argument of sustainability is used, all this in a way other than the concrete life of people, seems to set an authentic sabotage action to one of the most far-reaching measures of this Legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u9	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u10	Above all, in a context where the renovations of school textbooks occur from six to six years and in which there are numerous manuals that are not yet adapted to the new reality. The PCP today defends what it has always defended in successive bills that it has presented for a new system of certification, adoption and distribution of school textbooks, an initiative that we will re-present this week. The CFP requires the Government to fully respect the freeness of school textbooks, putting an end to this sabotage action due to the imposition of reuse. We defend that re-use should be optional and with appropriate rules to the didactic-pedagogical criteria and to the specificities of each cycle and of each year of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be an imposition with a mere economic objective. We demand immediate action to ensure that no one is excluded from registration on the electronic platform. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is about respecting the Constitution and ensuring the universality of public school. The Constitution says that it is up to the State to ensure universal, compulsory and free education, and the CFP will be here to ensure that it is not transformed and is not dead letter and will continue to fight for public school and for the rights of students and their families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u11	Mrs Deputies, the Bureau records the inclusion of four Members in order to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u12	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u13	To request clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor first. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u14	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing here the subject of school textbooks, which is very expensive to us. This is a subject for which all of the plural left-wing majority are needed because, as we know, the PSD and the CDS are against the fact that they confuse social status with the welfare state and believe that the social state is only for the most deprived. And this has only been possible because we have been able to move forward together with this political measure. But, listening to the honourable Member, there is something that escapes us, because the measure of school textbooks was already in the Socialist Party Election Programme and is in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, the main implementing and placing agent on the ground of the measure of free school textbooks for all is this government, which has progressively set up a strategy and practice for the practical application of this measure and has invested in new manuals: until next year, until 12. the year will be around EUR 150 million per year. But as far as the honourable Member tells us, in the words of the CFP, the government is the sabotager of the measure of school textbooks! Frankly, it scares us to tell us that the government is sabotaging the measure of school textbooks! It frightens us, because this is the technique of custom: to attack those who do as if we were not all on the same boat and to the same extent! [[PCP protests.]] The reuse of school textbooks is essential because it is part of the logic of the measure itself: fiscal sustainability, environmental sustainability and promotion of respect for the book. Re-use may not be fully applied, but it is essential to measure. Recently, together with the PCP and the Left Block, we have taken steps to make this programme more accessible: to put together the schools that adopt manuals with those that do not adopt them; to support the schools that choose to make their own didactic-pedagogic materials; to give them, for example, resources to advance with new digital resources within this measure. And in this context, when we are doing legislative work to continue to move forward and take this step further, the CFP chooses to come here to make the government its target, to shoot at the head of the government, to say that the Government sabotages the measure of school textbooks! Mrs. Deputy, frankly! The proximity of the elections should not encourage any member of the plural left to make his partners the main opponents. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] You are actually choosing to lower the measure of free school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u15	Sir, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u16	Your choice is to make us your main enemies, when we have been the main authors of this policy. That's what scares us! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u17	Mr Ana Rita Bessa, Member of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u18	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, began by saying that all students of compulsory education are included in this programme, but I must say, for the sake of rigour, that they are not, as you will know very well. Private school students—for you, of course, chose the wrong school, did not choose the public school, which is the right school! — are excluded from this programme. I should like the honourable Member, when she approved a measure, to know what you are approving, because she said that the CFP has always defended a free programme. Mrs Deputy, in the State budget, by voting in favour of the CFP, approved a re-use programme. I already knew—in fact, as I said—that in 1. the cycle this program had severe difficulties to be applied, since the law itself says that the manuals can be written or cut, which makes reuse very difficult, and from then on also, because in secondary because of the years of examination, there is also no possibility that there is reuse. I give you an example, Mrs. the year, in seven disciplines only two manuals can be delivered; the other five cannot be reused. I should also like you to know what you are approving in budgetary and financial terms when you approve a State budget, because in the State budget for this year you have adopted a budget which is far less than EUR 150 million that Mr Porfirio Silva says is necessary. Therefore, since you approved the State budget, I would like to remind you that it is your responsibility to exclude students from private education, to have no money to pay for a programme that will enter into force in September and there are a number of manuals that will not be reusable, which is, of course, a known fact. Madam Member, the CDS has always defended a program for the allocation of school textbooks with a condition of resources that can be extended. Re-use already existed and can certainly continue to exist — nothing against, all in favour. It worked informally and even decentralizedly, with the authorities, which seems very good to us. As regards a party which at the same time defends this programme also insists that there should be the promotion of digital, what I ask you, Mrs Deputies, is whether it would not seem more alert to you that these EUR 150 million or what remains of them, after applying a condition of resources, would finally be used for investment in digital, that, yes, promoter of such recycling that Mr. Secretary of State so much speaks of, rather than we are paying school textbooks to whom you definitely do not need and can pay them without any problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u19	You have the floor to answer Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u20	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Porfirio Silva and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa for her questions. We will focus on this political declaration of the CFP: it is - and it is a pity that no one has been concerned about questioning this very - on practical problems of applying the measure of the freeness of school textbooks. We didn't say it was the PS government that was sabotaging...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u21	They said, they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u22	If you have listened carefully to what we said is that a sabotage action is under way. And, Mr Porfirio Silva, if, in fact, the Socialist Party and the Government do not agree with the problems that are happening in schools and groupings in this regard, it is simple, Mr: take action and solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u24	That's what's at stake here! So far, there is no knowledge of measures by the Government to solve the huge problems that are being posed. And what's happening is there's a lot of students in the ranks for the manuals to cry and erase their own drawings. This can't be! It's insensitive! Where are the government's measures to solve this? They have to be taken! If the government in fact does not agree with this sabotage action that is under way, then it is simple—that is what we demand: take the measures to stop this happening immediately. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to say the following: the CFP has never approved a regime requiring the reuse of manuals, it has never approved a regime which, at all costs, wanted to exclude people from free. On the contrary, the CFP has always been on the side of the proposal for the freeness of school textbooks. It's a big difference! And the big difference is that we can never be on the same side, because the CDS is against the measure of the freeness of the manuals and, indeed, clearly, is afraid that everyone has free access to the manuals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u26	The record of the CDS' votes on this matter in the Assembly of the Republic speaks for itself. If anyone was against this measure in the past State budget, we know who it was: it was the CDS, it was the right! Therefore, the CDS does not have here today any legitimacy to transfer and falsify what was effectively approved in the State Budget Act and which at nothing requires a blind reuse of school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u27	Exactly! Don't impose!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u28	As far as this is concerned, Mr Commissioner, the question we have raised has always been this: we are not, in principle, against any kind of reuse, not that! The question is that it must take into account the educational-pedagogic criteria that exist, the specificity of the years to which they are addressed, the reality of the manuals that exist, so the modification of manuals can only be made from six to six years. So there are all these problems to solve. Returning to Mr Porfirio Silva, what we really wanted to hear from the Socialist Party was that they will take action tomorrow to solve these problems that have been happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u29	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. The CFP will not give up and will continue to monitor this situation as long as it is necessary for the right to free will to be fully met! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u31	Two further requests for clarification follow. The first will be formulated by Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I am surprised by this political statement from the CFP. This is a question of the majority, which will have to be refined. 15 days ago, I said that the presentation here of a PCP project alerted us to the mistrust that exists among the majority that supports the government, but this is a problem that affects the PS, the PCP and the Left Block! However, there is one thing that the honourable Member here has said and that she can never mention. It is that in 2018, several hearings took place on this subject with the Minister and other members of the government and the CFP never said what you have now said.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u34	However, the PSD has always warned that this measure has been misdesigned, so it would be misimplemented. We have not only warned about sustainability issues as well as what is missing in schools and what was investment in this area and lack in others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u36	But the PCP never had today's stance. And I remember that the PSD raised questions about who was doing the screening of school textbooks with a view to their reuse, where they would be kept, not being reused who would seek them, if they stayed in the schools where these spaces were planned, how would the parents proceed to the financial return—if the request was made to the Ministry or to the schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u38	The government was saying that all this was thought and planned. Now, the honourable Member today confirms that what the PSD has always alerted is the purest reality! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u39	This majority, to an eminently populist extent, creates a program, does not study it in its amplitude and applies it badly, with the detriment of families, students and the educational community! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u40	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, the freeness of school textbooks was one of the most important measures of this legislature, hence the importance of its negotiation under the agreements made by the Socialist Party with the parties on the left. It was important because the Left Block, as the PCP and also, in times past, said Secretary of State Alexandra Leitão, considers that this measure is an extension of the constitutional right to education. Therefore, it is an extension of the public education service, which must be universal and free of charge, so free school textbooks should be seen in the same way that we view public school as accessible to everyone. It is a measure that makes a lot of difference from the point of view of family income, particularly in September, when families were afraid to pay 200 € or 300 € of school textbooks for each child who was in school, having some who had support for school social action, but there were also hundreds of thousands of families without that support. That is why many authorities began to move forward with this measure of universal freeness. We in Parliament wanted to follow up this measure because it is very important; we negotiated it, it was approved in the State budget and it will be law very soon. The right has always been against this measure, using two arguments. One argument was that we would be subsidizing wealthy families, which is typical of those who understand public service as charity and assistanceism. The extension of this idea is that we should collect tips in public school, because we could not have equal access to public school for rich families and poor families. Now, this is the concept of public service: families pay taxes according to their income and then have access to public service on an equal basis, and thus also in the distribution of free school textbooks. The second argument on the right had to do with reuse. While re-use was for students who received the textbooks for school social action, no one cared about reuse, it was all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u42	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u43	When it became a criterion for free school textbooks for everyone, "quietly there, there is already a problem with reuse. » We know what is the origin of the problem on the right with reuse: it is the editors. Publishers are the first to not want to reuse manuals, because non-use means a permanent income of public money for publishers, which every year pays the new manuals. [[PSD Member Protests Ana Sofia Bettencourt.]] We know how editors make this business work! This is different — and that is the concern that has rightly been raised here — is that this same reuse, which is desirable from the point of view of economic sustainability and from the point of view of environmental sustainability, is then used as an exclusive criterion to remove families from this right to free school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u44	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u45	I will finish, Mr. President. What I ask you, Mrs Deputies, is if you do not think that the manuals have to make much progress in order to be prepared for reuse and also for dematerialization, in order not to make the measurement of free school textbooks a permanent income for publishers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u46	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u47	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt and Mrs Joana Mortágua. It is interesting that the PSD, in view of the fact that there are problems in schools and groupings, automatically places itself on the side of solving any problem, apart from solving people's specific problems. In fact, he did not express the slightest concern about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u48	We've demonstrated it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u49	The question which is also raised here is that, listening to the honourable Member, it seemed that the PSD was interested in this measure going wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u50	No, no! You can't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u51	And it seemed like she even agreed that she was sabotaged and badly implemented!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u52	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u53	It is that, of what we have heard, we have become very enlightened: the PSD considers populist a measure that guarantees more justice, more universality for public school in its access and frequency, a measure that fulfils the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic! Let's take a look at this! This is the big question! If you don't have a basic agreement with the measure, say why! It is because, in fact, they are not interested in ensuring everyone's access to the frequency of public school on an equal footing. Therefore, we are well informed about the positioning of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u54	Exactly! [[PSD Member Protests Ana Sofia Bettencourt.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u55	As regards the question put by Mrs Joana Mortágua, it is clear that this is one of the most comprehensive measures in this Parliament. And you can see the angles it raises to the benches of the PSD and the CDS, which, whenever we bring the subject to debate, are left with the raised hair, and it seems that, "O uncle, uncle", is a disgrace to all who are here. But no, it is not a misfortune for families, it is not a disgrace for students, it is a condition of greater equality, it is indeed a question of justice, which should be complemented by other measures in other fields of life, such as, in particular, the level of fiscal reform that promotes such justice at a much wider and longer term. A question was also asked about the possibility and perspective of manuals being able to be adapted to better re-use conditions and also on the issue of digitality and dematerialization. The draft law that the CFP has been presenting over the years with regard to this subject includes precisely these aspects. So we'll go back to the cargo with him. As we have said here, let us re-present it, because, of course, that is the way we want to go. With regard to the insinuations made that the CFP would eventually have approved a measure requiring the reuse of school textbooks, there is a clarification that must even be made. It is that the rule of the State budget is very clear—it can be read in Article 194. or — when it refers only to the fact that school textbooks can — they can! — be reused. The standard does not impose a re-use, and at least a blind re-use. Therefore, what needs to be achieved at this time is the concrete resolution of family problems, preventing a sabotage action to one of the most relevant measures of this legislature. We will certainly be here to denounce and continue this fight. They can count on the PCP students, their families, the education officers and the school community, because we will continue to do this fight, wherever it is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u56	You now have the floor, for a political statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are bringing again today to discuss the subject of the exploitation of lithium on the land of Barroso. And when we speak in the land of Barroso it is best, first of all, to remember that we are talking about territories classified by FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ) as World Agricultural Heritage. This is therefore the value of the agro-silvo-pastoric system of these lands of the municipalities of Boticas and Montalegre, half walls with the only national park in our country. Because it is exactly in these classified lands of these two municipalities that the Government intends to license two lithium mining mines. And since the Government has already signed a contract in March of this year for the grant of lithium in an area of the municipality of Montalegre, to Lusorecurses, it is very likely that it is not just a claim. Indeed, the premature formalization of this operating contract represents, for the Greens, not only the prenunciation of an environmental crime, due to the expected impacts of it, as it still represents a monumental discredit of environmental assessment instruments and procedures, which, as we know, exist to support the State's decisions in the pursuit of its environmental responsibilities and not to legitimize decisions already taken. Moreover, but not less serious, it is still the whole scourge of democracy that this case has consubstantialized. It is recalled that, in response to the Greens, the Government has ensured that there will be no exploitation of lithium in any of the classified areas of our country. Now, as has already been made clear, the location of the Boticas and Montalegre mines strongly contradicts this guarantee given by the government. And contrary to two fronts: not only contrary to the overlap with the area of World Agricultural Heritage, as opposed, according to the opinion of the Committee on the Evaluation of the Proposal for a Definition of Scope, the so-called « PDA », by the integral overlap of the two areas of exploitation of lithium in Montalegre with the area of the Gerês Biosphere Reserve, with the Barroso Forest Perimeter and the partial insertion of these in the area of the territory of the Iberian Lobe Alcateia of Leiranco. But the impacts of Montalegre mine on biodiversity are unfortunately not left here. In fact, the opinion still refers to the threat that the mine may come to represent for the mexilho-de-rio, a species classified and in danger of extinction and which, ironically, determined the removal of one of the dams of the National Barrage Plan. And due to the overlap of lithium exploration areas with the areas of compensation for the dams of the HighTamega, it also threatens the mitigating measures of the impacts of lithium exploitation on biodiversity. But, moreover, the expected impacts mentioned in this opinion are not limited to biodiversity issues. In fact, the opinion also draws attention to water resources, stressing the lack of information in the PDA regarding a set of factors. The total lack of assessment of the impacts on air quality is indicated, a factor considered relevant in the project, since we are in front of open-air mines, guessing the problems that may arise there for the health of workers and also of the populations. But the Commission's opinion is still overwhelming on the methodology and overall content of the PDA. And I quote: « The PDA has significant gaps, which do not allow for proper deliberation on the contents of the environmental impact study », considering finally the same Commission « not having the minimum elements necessary to be able to decide on the content of the PDA ». Even so, after all these warnings, and in view of the severity of the foreseeable environmental impacts contained in this opinion, dated January 2018, the Government signed in March of this year the contract of granting, for 35 years, the lithium mine in Montalegre! That is exactly why the Greens consider that in this process the government is putting the car in front of the woods. That is what this is about, and this is the synthesis that needs to be made, when, first, the contract is signed and only then the impacts are assessed. And when the government says that exploitation does not progress without an environmental impact study, developed and approved, something else could not be expected, because that is how the law determines. The problem is that the possibility of environmental assessment to conclude that there will be no exploitation of lithium in Montalegre is excluded at the outset since the operating contract has already been signed. In other words, environmental assessment is referred to a mere role of mitigation and impact compensation, which leads us to say that the environmental impact study and the Environmental Impact Declaration (AIA) of the Montalegre mine sit in clay feet! They are completely weakened, if not committed. Finally, the exploitation of lithium in Barroso, and very specifically in Montalegre, also raises serious questions about democracy: when there is no transparency, when information is heard to the people, to the elected, it is democracy that is at stake; when people are not first heard, before making decisions with serious implications in people's lives, something goes wrong in democracy; when people, who are deeply affected in their way of life and their identity, have to resign themselves, in the name of a so-called national interest, the fate that others have defined, something is wrong in a democracy that wants to be just. Finally, I would like to say that the Greens, in view of what has been said, what they demand is respect for the people, populations and the environment. It's just, before business, people are there and there's the environment. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u58	Five were registered. Members to request clarification, to which Mr José Luís Ferreira, according to the Bureau, will answer together. First of all, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u59	Mr President, Mr Luís Ferreira, welcoming the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party to bring the debate, at this plenary session, this issue of the concern that we should face the development of this process and the way in which the Government is developing the conduct of this process in relation to the exploitation of lithium in the Barroso region, there is one aspect that we cannot fail to observe: is that the situation that is being evidenced with increasing clarity is that this process started wrong, was born wrong and I do not know if it will ever be directed, but, at least until now, it has not been addressed. in this context of concern, of less and less clear situations, in which concerns arise, from what Mr mentioned, in relation to the proposal for a definition of scope, in the context of the environmental impact assessment process, what is questioned is that there is a response and an attitude by the central power, from among the populations of the entire region of our country — namely, in the Boticas and Montalegre councils — which did not have, on the part of the Government, monitoring, knowledge, transparency and clear information on what should be on the table throughout this process. The CFP, from the beginning, accompanied this process with attention and concern. And not only did he address requests and written questions to the Government as he initiated, on his proposal, the visit of the parliamentary committee to the ground, contacting the people and local authorities responsible for this process with the central authority and the various bodies. We have done on the part of the Assembly what the government should have done at the beginning. In fact, it was important for the House to work, with the proposal which it put into effect in March this year, but which is in this context: that we always advocate that the country should know the resources it has and should not abdicate these resources, placing them at the service of national development and interests, at the service of the people and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u60	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u61	I will finish, Mr. President. But the central issue — and to this end, Mr President — is that the State, in particular the Government, is delegating to the economic power of the multinational groups, which are conducting the processes of prospecting and research the knowledge and strategic information that the State should have and should guarantee. There is also concern about this, Mr President, and I would therefore like to hear about it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u62	Mr Liliana Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u63	Mr President, we have heard again today about the question of lithium, a matter that is at the mouth of hundreds of people, at the head of thousands and at the decision table of Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, João Galamba. The final decision, pursuant to Law No 54 / 2015 of 22 June, refers to it. And we have all seen that, despite the social turmoil that is being created, there has not yet been an attitude of full transparency on the part of the Government in this matter, clearly telling people what it is going to do and what it wants from its territories. We have said several times that we do not question the importance of lithium. The same is essential, for example, for the pharmaceutical industry. What we are questioning is how the government, hidden from the population, has prepared a megaplan for exploitation of lithium in territories, disregarding the existing classifications and the population. What we are questioning is the legitimacy of a government to launch promotional videos abroad, stating that it puts Portugal on sale, disrespecting any caution of social serenity and territorial valorisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u65	Do you think the government would promote this massification of exploitation without asking the people their opinion and without having the real notion of the environmental impact these decisions will have on their territory? See the case of Barroso, World Agricultural Heritage, classified by Unesco. Do you think the enormities of defined areas are well used, questioning this classification? See the case of Morgade in Montalegre. Do you think this should be done without hearing and involving the population, passing over the opinions of the municipal chambers, without precaution of environmental interests and without taking into account the potential risks of technology used to extract the lithium from the rock? It is planned for the district of Viana do Castelo and in particular also for Serra d’ Arga (and not only for others), which has immense cultural and environmental value, with a unique biodiversity, the massive exploitation of lithium. Do you think this government is right to launch this large-scale exploration competition on this greenhouse, which is an icon of the Upper Mininho? And you have supported this government for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u67	These defined areas were approved in the 2018 Council of Ministers and only now in July 2019 the Greens Ecological Party has made a political intervention on this matter! They approved four budgets, even knowing all of this. They approved four government designs and political guidelines. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u68	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u69	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, lithium is a natural resource that can greatly leverage the circular economy and therefore cannot be systematically diabolized. Lithium is a fundamental element for the construction of high-performance batteries and therefore for the electric car, using electricity and thus replacing engines that use fossil fuels. Therefore, it is a key element in promoting the energy transition and thus the decarbonisation of the economy. Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba, contrary to what they say and what was stated here, was on Friday in Montalegre in a highly attended public session, in dialogue with the people and with the autarchs. Now, Mr. José Luís Ferreira must certainly have been there, because he is very interested in this matter! Open... We must be aware that mining farms today are not comparable to the farms of the past century, of the era of industrialization, in which there were no environmental concerns, neither at the start, nor later, when mines were closed. Today, we have evaluated technical resources that allow to mitigate the negative impacts that mining can bring. We are sure that this is exactly what the government is doing, that it is in this sense that the government is working. It seems that mining is already under way, but the truth is that there is still no mining to be evaluated. There are, yes, ongoing environmental impact studies. Now, the Greens cannot diabolize everything that results from new energy production processes. It is that The Greens are against the dams, against wind energy, against photovoltaic energy and now against lithium. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you could say anything positive on this matter, rather than constantly putting the issues on the table in a negative way, diabolicizing what is not compatible with your concerns. We don't give in to lithium, but we don't give in to it either. Therefore, Mr President, try to see anything positive about this natural resource which Portugal has and which can be explored, with the guarantee, of course, not to question protected areas, the environment, which, I am convinced, a Government of the Socialist Party, so concerned about this matter, will not allow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u70	The next speaker to ask for clarification is Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u71	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr José Luís Ferreira on bringing this subject to the debate, which we have been very concerned about in the CDS. In fact, what the Government has done in this regard is all less transparent. You've said and despised, you've announced and turned back. He has said that he wants to make great progress with the exploitation of lithium to a national dimension, but when he sees here and there, as is the case with the examples of Montalegre and Barroso, which he has brought to us, that these initiatives have great opposition from the local people, the government says that it will respect them and not move forward. It has said, for example, that it will not allow the exploitation of lithium whenever protected areas and landscapes are concerned, but look at, for example, the case of the Sierra de Arga, where the municipalities of Ponte de Lima, Caminha, Viana do Castelo are precisely making the lifting of all the reality of the flora and fauna existing in that greenhouse, with a view to its classification as a protected area, and after all, the government has said that the contracts for prospect are already signed and are already a few years old. This duplicity of the government is truly unacceptable, especially because it has some chronic duplication. See Mr Renato Sampaio's intervention and see, for example, the Socialist Party's draft election programme in the area of climate change, presented for public debate, the authorship of the Socialist Party's office of studies, where, unlike the one that is often the party's speech, it is clearly said that it will "ensure a sustainable exploitation of existing lithium reserves in our country, developing a cluster around this resource".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u72	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u73	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, if this is so assumed, I can only ask you the following: The Greens follow the concerns that have been expressed in the Serra de Arga, in Viana do Castelo, in Ponte de Lima, in Caminha, or limit themselves only to the examples brought here by Barroso and Montalegre? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u74	Finally, to clarify Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u75	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr José Luís Ferreira on the subject he brings us. It is true, and we have discussed it several times, both in the Commission and in the Plenary, that lithium is essential for an energy transition which, having the decarbonisation of the economy as an objective, also needs to respect the objectives that we as a global society have in order to prevent the increase in the temperature of the planet. then we are faced with a choice between accessing lithium to meet these objectives, which are main objectives for our sustainability as a planet and as a species, and the difficulties that this poses, both in populations and from an environmental point of view. So first of all, we cannot present an environmental solution with an unsustainable environmental liability, because that is not an environmental solution. Secondly, we cannot leave to profit the definition of what is strategic for the country and for the world, and I believe that it is in this second part that there is a monumental failure. Firstly, because large multinational companies are being given a capacity to intervene in our country against what would be expected in the participation of populations and, secondly, because it is the State that is resigning to safeguard national strategic interests, combining them with the fact that in Portugal we can have enormous help for this economic decarbonization and for the energy transition. It is clear that the interests of profit are on the table because it has been found that Portugal has the greatest reserves in the world of lithium — it is among the 10 nations with the world's largest reserves — and therefore all the international 'abutres' want to land in Portugal to squander our natural heritage. I believe that the question currently being asked is whether we, as a country, can safeguard the economic interest of lithium and its environmental interest along with the environmental and economic and sustainability interest of our populations in the interior of the country and, in particular, the Barroso and Montalegre region. That's the question I'm asking you. from the Left Block, we believe it is possible, provided it is not the profit to define our strategic choices as Country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u76	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u77	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Deputies Bruno Dias, Liliana Silva, Renato Sampaio, Filipe Anacoreta Correia and Pedro Filipe Soares the questions that asked me. I would say, in a generic way, that we understand the importance of lithium and the importance of its contribution to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels, but the good sense recommends that we do not try to solve problems by creating even greater problems. This means that the exploitation of lithium cannot be done at any price, that environmental rules must be respected and, above all, that environmental assessment instruments must be credible, not creating any pressure or conditionalism, which is what, in our view, the government is doing, when it first signs and then makes the assessment of the impacts. Mr Renato Sampaio speaks of the importance for the wealth of the population. Oh, Mr. Deputies, those guys from Barroso have seen that movie more than once! When we spoke to them about these things—because we were there within the Committee on Economic Affairs—they reminded us of the heritage of the volfrámium mines, which promised development and which, after all, left the land completely dry, mines that were still above them in galleries and not in the open sky. Today, the blades where they took cattle to feed are transformed into real trash and, therefore, they have already seen this film, it is not the first time. Mr Bruno Dias is right, in fact, when he says that what is born wrong, late or never goes right. That is our great fear, because the process went wrong and, when we were there, within the Committee on Economic Affairs, we were able to understand the problems that people have raised and, above all, the lack of information that existed. Mrs Liliana Silva, regarding the importance of lithium, I have already said that we believe it can be a good contribution, but it brings other problems, and I also think that the populations have not been heard or involved in this process. Replying to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the problem of Montalegre was brought only by the Greens because in this particular case there is already a contract of exploitation signed by the Government, but we demand that any exploitation, any economic activity comply with environmental rules and rules. The environmental impact assessment may not be subject to any type of pressure, whether in Montalegre or in the Arga saw or anywhere else. Mr Renato Sampaio, no one wants to diabolize lithium, but we also do not want to make it in the solution of the homeland. No one wants to diabolize, what one wants is that the rules are respected and that the environmental assessment instruments are not discredited. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, in fact, there is little transparency in these contracts, but I am now taking advantage of reminding you that some licensing contracts for these holdings were made by the previous government with exactly the same transparency stamp. So I think that's what we're talking about. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the question is precisely this: it is necessary to safeguard economic interests and environmental sustainability. It is necessary to reconcile these two realities and it is possible to compatible them! There is no lack of legislation, what is needed is that the laws are complied with and, above all, that the entities that have to give their opinion on these matters are not pressured. Therefore, do not put « the car in front of the oxen», i.e. do not evaluate the damage only after the contracts are signed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u78	We now move on to the following political statement, which will be given by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strikes of doctors and nurses that take place today in Portugal are one of the most striking examples of the state in which our health services are located. There are strikes of doctors and nurses because the National Health Service is a mess, and the National Health Service is a mess because the government has allowed it to degrade at a pace never before seen in our country. By the hand of a left-wing government, with the support of the various left-wings, the National Health Service has reached the lowest point ever. There are lack of doctors and nurses, lack of investment in equipment and technology, lack of conditions to solve the drama of waiting lists, lack of will and means to combat demobilization and lack of hope in health professionals in Portugal today. The conclusion is only one: by action and omission, this government is a kind of “coveiro” of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u81	The most serious is that health is no exception in the panorama of the disqualification of public services in Portugal. A little everywhere, what you see is the degradation and the bad services provided to the population: the waiting lines for the Citizen's Card proliferate at an impressive pace—just look at the television; the transport services break by the seams—just listen to the users' failures; the trains, these, are few and of poor quality—just look at the numbers and images. In the meantime, in the government, stunned with chaos size, each head its sentence! In justice, citizens are blamed for delays; in urban transport, the Minister of the Environment pretends it's all right; in trains, the manager of the sector apologizes and displays crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u83	Mrs. Members, however, forget that there is something more important. The most important thing is that this government is the champion of the destruction of public services. This government has no excuse or forgiveness, because it has ruled under exceptional economic conditions and, nevertheless, has allowed public services to reach an absolutely painful state. The Portuguese, especially the most vulnerable, pay the bill of governance which is the most finished example of misleading advertising. They say they have ended austerity when, unfortunately, it is in sight of all, in any public service in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] This is the climax of the lack of speech and the absence of shame. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The press says that Mr. Minister for Labour and Social Security does not want to continue in any future government. I say 'possible future government' because sometimes by hearing some rulers, it seems that the people have already voted and decided. Whether or not to retire from politics, the truth is that Minister Vieira da Silva is out of the picture in the worst way possible, without having had the ability to solve the serious and unacceptable problem in the delay in the allocation of retirement pensions in Portugal. This is a very black knot in the curriculum of this minister and in the balance sheet of this government. First of all, because a person who asks for reform, after tens of years of work, deserves to be treated by the State with sensitivity and dignity. Secondly, because the delays of one year or more in granting a retirement pension to which it is entitled, for bureaucratic and administrative reasons, are a failure of the State which does not have possible forgiveness. Thirdly, because delays in granting a pension to the poor, vulnerable people who are deprived of any income, often resorting to the help of family and friends, are unacceptable behaviour and a demanding social insensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u85	Fourthly, because Minister Vieira da Silva, who has years and years of governance in this sector, should be the first to have a minimum of sensitivity to understand the problem and to have a small resistance of ability to solve it. Unfortunately, the Minister adds a problem to the problem and adds political disability to the State's disability. Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u87	Fifthly, because if it were not the courageous and determined intervention of the Ombudsman, the Minister would still be vetoing the problem in a genuine act of arrogance and insensitivity. That's how this government is. This is the case in the granting of pensions, as it is also in the unfair behaviour that it has with the Mercy and other institutions of social solidarity. Here too, in the social economy, the government is unfair and lacking in word. The update of the commitment to cooperation with the institutions of the social economy should have been implemented in January. We are in July and nothing has happened, i.e. the government fails and the institutions suffer. In conclusion, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is talking about the poor but they are not disadvantaged, the government prays for solidarity, but not practice. This is the balance sheet of four years lost, a government that, despite exceptional economic conditions, has wasted a great opportunity. The country and the Portuguese will certainly not forget it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u88	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has four requests for clarification and has informed the Bureau that she wishes to answer two to two. The first request for clarification is from the CDS-PP. Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Clara Marques Mendes for her speech and for this photograph which she draws here, which is a picture for which no one likes to look but which is indeed what is happening in Portugal: an absolute discrepancy between what is the political discourse, what is announced by this government, and then what is practiced in various areas, even more in social security, that area in which this government announced that it would turn the page, which would, in so many matters, present a new face, a new face. After all, he presented himself with the Minister of Always, a minister who entered the Ministry already in the last century and who came, after all, once again, to deceive the Portuguese only with bold, generous measures, but which, in practice, do not result. For example, in the case of delays in the allocation of first pensions, truly serious, truly dramatic situations, within the limits of subsistence, the survival of so many Portuguese people in Portugal and abroad, what has happened? The government starts by denying the evidence. Since the beginning of the Legislature, it has been questioned on this matter and denied the evidence that came to this Parliament through various participations. He refused to give data so that this matter could be scrutinized by the honourable Members and still today he does not give the data he has so that we can know exactly the level of delay. The government is still failing to provide information. When he acknowledges that the problem is serious and dramatic, even after the warners of the Ombudsman, the Government comes here and says by the voice of the Prime Minister : « Don't worry, the problem will be solved in the first half of the year ». After all, the semester has passed, the problems remain, the government continues to make excuses and the Portuguese are still waiting. Madam Member, what I ask you is this: is there any hope for these Portuguese people who are not going through the change of this government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u90	The second request for clarification is from the CFP. Mrs Diana Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u91	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I would also like to congratulate her on her political statement. The question of public services was even brought to Parliament by the CFP in specific discussion and concerns about delays in the payment of pensions and the difficulty in accessing social security services have been the focus of the CFP at different times. But, Mrs Deputy, the intervention you made there from the rostrum did not match the practice of the PSD when you were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u92	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u94	It should be remembered, Mrs Deputy, that the PSD and the CDS closed schools, closed social security balconies and denied access to social security services. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] They closed the court gate, closed health services, health equipment, denying public services of proximity to many people in our country. Therefore, the above intervention does not erase the PSD action when it was in government, along with the CDS. Madam Member, social insensitivity is to cut into wages and pensions, is to cut into family allowances, social income and other social benefits, as you did when you were in government, is to cut into special education allowance, denying treatments and therapies to children with special needs. Mrs Deputy, that was the action of the PSD and the CDS in the government, that the words I said above do not go out. In fact, if you had continued in the government today in social security, you would have already cut 600 million in pensions, as you wanted and as you have even entered into your own programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u96	The PSD and CDS have the full hands of responsibility for the current situation in social security and do not rely on the PCP to negrate public services or to entrench social security. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, what the PSD and the CDS also want to do — and the PSD demonstrates - well with its intervention - is to weaken public services, to weaken social security, to open the way for their privatization, and to that end they do not count on the CFP. Here we will be defending the public system, universal and solidarity of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u98	Here we will be defending the strengthening of workers' rights, as we have defended, and the government has instruments to effectively strengthen social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u99	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u100	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. We will continue to defend the strengthening of social security also with the diversification of its sources of financing, ensuring that the public, universal and supportive social security system has all the conditions to fulfil its social functions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u101	To answer these first two questions, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u102	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions they have raised. Starting with the order in which I have been asked the questions, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, it is quite true what you are referring to. We have been living for four years in a world of illusion, in which the government promises, but when we see in practice, it does not give what it promises. More: it does not give what citizens have the right to. There are delays that are unqualifying and, since now – responding also to Mrs. Diana Ferreira —, to remember that these delays had an exponential increase in this government, from 2017 to 2018, never previously verified. Therefore, answering the question directly posed to me, hope is in fact that there is a government that does not disqualify, as this government has disqualified, public services and that Portuguese are not as ill-treated as they are by this government. As I said from the rostrum, the Portuguese will certainly not forget it in the next elections... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u103	They won't forget what the PSD and CDS have done either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u104	...and they will surely choose a government that treats them with the dignity they are not being treated with. Mrs Diana Ferreira, you must be a little mistaken. It means that we, PSD, don't count on the PCP, and don't count. Whoever counted on the CFP was the government. Mrs. Member, would you like me to remind you? In 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u105	Madam Member, the CFP has been, and is also responsible for this chaos in the public sectors. I have already had the opportunity to say, Mrs Deputies, and I repeat: it is no use to schedule debates to talk about chaos in public services because this does not exempt them from responsibility. Madam Member, I advise you to be serious in your speeches...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u106	Convinha! She thinks there's serious, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u107	... and seriousness requires reading, I repeat, reading about the subjects that are being discussed. From that point on, if you have the opportunity, please read the report by the Ombudsman, which he refers to in an express manner, it is not the PSD that says so, that there have never been so much delay. Friso, Mrs. Member, who has never been so late as in recent years, especially since 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u108	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u109	By its intervention, it gives me the feeling that the CFP has just shown a great insensitivity to those who have lived without any income for more than a year. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u110	We then move on to the second round of questions to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, being the first of the Left Block. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mrs Clara Marques Mendes on her political statement, on the matter she brings us and also on the fact that she has provided us with the PSD this time to try to combine the current strikes. [[PSD protests.]] What a great turn-by-face of the PSD, what a great path the PSD went on to encavalize itself in strikes and to come to lend loas to public services that before, of two, one, or called as « state fats», and therefore were to get fattened, to slaughter, or then I wanted to privatize. For example, the honourable Member began by talking about health. The PSD, in health, had a list of about 30 hospitals to deliver to private entities. I don't know if you remember that. I don't know if it was an attempt to improve the public service by ending it, i.e. to end the public service problems, it ended with the public service itself. But since the political statements in the Assembly of the Republic should also serve for the parties to come to tell the country what they propose for certain matters, for certain areas, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask some questions. He started talking about the strikes in progress and I'd like to talk to him about doctors. Is the PSD available to defend, for example, the exclusivity of doctors and other professionals in the National Health Service, to ensure that the National Health Service has more and more professionals and that they are not drained to the private? Yes or no? Is the PSD available to review your position on the training of more specialists? Instead of supporting a legal regime created by the PSD, which has caused physicians to be indifferent, is it now available to come up with the Left Block proposals to increase vacancies for specialist doctors, to have more medical specialists in the country? Yes or no? About nurses, is it available to review the career of nurses, to follow the Left Block in the intention of reviewing the nursing career, for an integral count of the time of professionals, to ensure equal treatment between individual employment contracts and employment contracts in public functions? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u112	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u113	I'm done with this, Mr. President. It is important to respond to this, because if not the statement you came here to make is a mere instrumentalization of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u114	Instrumentalisation of workers? Oh, my God! Us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u115	... it is a mere instrumentalization of public officials, it is a mere instrumentation of the strike, and it has little seriousness, because then it has no proposal for these issues that are on the table. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u116	The last question to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes is from Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u117	Mr President, in fact, Mrs Deputies, there is a popular saying that well embodies what Mrs Deputies recently came here to do, which is: "Well prays Brother Thomas ; look at what he says, don't look at what he does". Of course — and if you don't remember — I remember during the previous PSD/CDS government the area of social security and work lost 3156 workers. By the first quarter of 2019, this government has already recovered 906 of these workers, however we all recognize that this number may not yet be sufficient. Furthermore, Mrs Deputies, let us also remember that the PSD and CDS government was the champion of job destruction, not only in social security, but in all employment, and that is the recognition that the Portuguese will also be able to do in the next elections. In addition, Mrs Deputy, who was paid at the National Pension Centre only in May, 15 000 new pensions, i.e. more 63 % than those paid in 2014, these pensions that the PS government has increased and did not cut, as the PSD and CDS wanted to do. Yes, Mrs. Member, because the Portuguese do not forget the cut of the 600 million PSD and CDS they wanted to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u119	More, Mrs. Member : if we compare 2014 to 2015, 2016 or 2017, we immediately realize that in the last three years there has been an increase of 30 % of new applications for pensions, although the human resources of social security have decreased by more than one third because of the personnel cuts and the people who have been sent for requalification by the previous government. In fact, during the previous legislature, the PS has repeatedly questioned the then Government of the PSD and the CDS about the now confirmed negative impact of redeployment disguised redeployments, both on productivity and on the ability to respond to social security services. This negative impact was always denied, and several times it was said that these people were not needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u120	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, being clear today, and confirming that the 700 social security workers sent for requalification, as well as all the others, were needed, after all, as the PS always cautiously and warned, I ask you what the PSD did, at the time, to ensure that this same lack of personnel was not, in fact, going to check in the future, how did it happen, the lack of such human resources? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u122	To answer that, the word is from Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u123	Mr President, I also thank Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mrs Carla Tavares for the questions they have raised. Starting with the order in which I was asked the questions, I would say to Mr. Moisés Ferreira that he must be a little confused with what he says about the PSD, because he begins by saying that the PSD has been instrumentalizing the strikes. Mrs. Members, the PSD respects, as it has always respected, strikes. Do you know what the strike is? The problem with strikes is people's discontent. And do you know why people are unhappy, sir? Because you have contributed to disqualifying public services!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u125	That is why, today, we are witnessing the strikes of doctors and nurses. The way you are. Members speak only leads me to conclude that they are supporting this situation. Still, after this widespread chaos of strikes out there, the gentlemen. Members are saying that they do not understand the discontent of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u127	The gentlemen. Members are telling the citizens that they are in line to have their citizenship card that they are not right. The gentlemen. Members are telling pensioners that they are waiting — some, more than two years ago — to receive their reform that they are not right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the courage to say that you are responsible and do not alter what the PSD says. The PSD will be, as it has always been, by the people's side they are doing strike or claim what they understand, because they are actually first and you are responsible for the state in which things are.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u128	You haven't answered strictly anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u129	Mrs Carla Tavares, what you just did was a declaration of recognition of the incompetence of your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u130	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u131	Mrs Deputy, we are at the end of a legislature and it was not the PSD that was ruling over these four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u132	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u133	Whoever called the television or came in here when Mrs Deputy spoke, thought we were talking about a four-year PSD/CDS government that we were in a debate four years ago. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what's going on! What happens is that you have been ruling for four years and, as the honourable Member has just admitted, you have been totally unable and incompetent to respond to the Portuguese. Madam Member, it was your Minister Vieira da Silva who came to the Assembly of the Republic to say, repeatedly, that the problem of delay in paying pensions would be solved by the end of the first half. Madam Member, is it not true that last week — when we were at the end of the first half — I myself questioned the Minister in order to know whether the problem was solved? Because neither the Minister was able to answer, nor the honourable Member was able to guarantee. Yeah, no! We're in July and the Portuguese are the least interested in you. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I must say that, in fact, the whole left is responsible for the disqualification that is in public services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u134	To give a political statement on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 3 years and 8 months are completed today on the date on which the debate of the 21st Constitutional Government programme began in this House. in this last political statement of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in this Parliament, a balance sheet is required. It is therefore necessary to speak of the political solution that was at the heart of government formation: the common political positions with the Left Block, the CFP and the Green Party. In the coming months, we will certainly see a wide discussion on the relative merit of each individual in the results obtained and the authorship of each of the measures taken. The PS will not fail to indicate in this respect what was done and achieved was the electoral programme with which it was presented to the Portuguese in 2015. There is, however, a merit which is indisputable and common: for the first time in our democracy, the left ones have been able to achieve, together, a governmental solution. Divided into so many questions, they knew, without abandoning these differences, to build the consensus necessary for the approval of four State budgets and for the preservation of political stability throughout the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only with this stability was it possible to adopt, over four years, a set of measures which are the identity of this government solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u136	That's why public services are this way! That's why there is chaos in health and transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u137	Now that the approach of the campaign will certainly make everyone come to highlight the differences and differences, the PS could not at this time cease to point out this common path and our pride of having been part of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This course is undoubtedly part of the PS's legislative initiatives that, together with initiatives in the same direction of other left parties, have corrected ultra-mountain options of Portuguese law, such as those that banned adoption by couples of the same sex, limited the use of women's assisted medical procreation as an individual right or created an absurd compulsory medical consultation in the process of voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am talking about limitations on freedom created or not exceeded in the previous legislature, reminding us, once again, that even when the right is said to be liberal, it rarely incorporates the best aspect of liberalism, which is the defense of freedoms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The main mark of the legislation was, however, the economic and budgetary results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u138	Something's up, it's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u139	The strategy outlined in the Government Programme was clear: the elimination of measures that barred families and the economy would make it possible to move from economic slowdown to more robust growth. One of the original features of the legislation was precisely to comply with this Government Programme and to implement the measures contained therein. The implementation of these measures was the result of the Government Programme. The budgetary deficits in recent years are the lowest in democracy and the current primary surplus and the weight of public debt in GDP (gross domestic product) are those in the Government Programme, despite doubts, skepticism and even perennial claims about arithmetical impossibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u140	The sustained reduction in the weight of public debt in GDP is one of the main structural legacies that this government, or any government, can leave for the future. The other is the sustainability of this large implicit debt of the State that is debt to pensioners, current and future. It is necessary for those who work today to be sure that they will have a pension tomorrow. Here, in addition to surplus deficits in social security, the combination of these surpluses with the creation of new revenue has allowed to extend the time when the Financial Stabilization Fund can suffer from imbalances in the system in 19 years. On the basis of these results is the fact that the economy has responded to the stimuli, creating jobs. In four years, more than 370 000 jobs have been employed in Portugal and the unemployment rate has been reduced to almost half, the lowest in 17 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the same time, in all years of this legislation, the minimum wage increased, with an accumulated increase of almost 20 %, also increased the average wage and increased social expenditure, which is the safety net of the most fragile Portuguese, all contributing to an unprecedented reduction in the risk rate of poverty, at a rate that was the greatest among the euro area countries. I would add that this parliamentary majority has fulfilled the commitments contained in the Government's programme in terms of tax reduction. The PS has thus proved that it is possible to reconcile these economic and social results with sustainable public finances. The budgetary results obtained allow the electoral campaign that is approaching not to be dominated by budgetary emergencies, procedures for excessive deficits or threats of sanctions, as it has been happening continuously for more than two and a half decades. For the PS, having sound public finances is not primarily a matter of compliance with European rules, it is rather a matter of sustainability of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reduction in the weight of public debt is releasing resources that can progressively be applied in the financing of public services and, in the long term, the country can only have those public services that are available to finance with taxes, not with debt. Those parties that, like the PS, defend a strong social state, those parties that, like the PS, do not put the hypothesis...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u141	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u142	I'll be done, Mr. President. As I said, those parties that, like the PS, do not put the possibility of reducing budget charges by passing essential public services to the private, are these parties, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, who must be most concerned about preserving the sustainability conditions of the public accounts. That must be a permanent concern! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u143	Mr Rocha Andrade, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u144	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u145	First of all, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u146	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, I must say that when I was told the title of his political statement, I thought that we would have a follow-up to the last consultation of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Days and, in particular, to the statements of the President of his Parliamentary Group, Carlos César. I remember what he said on that last day when he was talking about the constant blockades and difficulties of the partners on the left. I thought for myself about the concrete measures that could have been these blockades, these difficulties and I began to list them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u147	You're very calm, the Block! Looks like you took a tranquilizer! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u148	I thought, for example, of pensions. Is there really any proposal by the Socialist Party for an even greater extraordinary increase in any of the years? No, there was not, because the Socialist Party had planned, in its programme, to freeze pensions. As for the minimum wage and its increase up to 600 €, was one of the partners on the left that prevented it from going up more than 600 €? No, it was the Socialist Party that had to be dragged, even for the 600 €. As for the reduction of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) or the creation of the additional to IMI (municipal property tax), the Socialist Party wanted to go further? No, it was even the honourable Member who had the money in the government, and I do not remember one single proposal to go further in reducing the IRS. As for the reduction of propines, did the Socialist Party ever propose that they come down more than they did, for the first time in 20 years? No, the Socialist Party didn't. As for PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ) and the regularization of precarious conditions in public administration, the Socialist Party wanted to go further? I didn't want that, because I didn't have it on your schedule. What about the linkage of teachers? Again, it didn't even have that in your program. So what blocks are we talking about? I remembered it could be one of the transport passes. Did the Socialist Party want to further lower transport passes? No, the Left Block wanted, the Socialist Party didn't. So, as to constant blockades and constant difficulties, what was concrete? That is why I began to remind myself that there was indeed a ticket to the bosses through the reduction of the TSU (unique social rate) which was rejected here because it would harm the social security of the workers, and there was support to the bank, the Banif (International Bank of Funchal), the disaster of the New Bank, which cost the country billions of euros, and that, yes, had a blocking force on the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u149	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u150	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Mr President, I must say that, after your intervention, I realized that the great blocking force is the Socialist Party itself and that today it has changed the hand of its Parliamentary Days. on our part, be at ease, because we don't hold any resentments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u151	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u152	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, I would like to begin by saying that we greatly appreciate what has happened in this Parliament. We have certainly appreciated the contribution that the PCP has made so that this legislation has been what it was and not the continuation of the previous legislation. It is that on the night of 4 October 2015, even at a time when the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party had already acquired that he would remain in the opposition, a phrase of the Secretary-General of the PCP became known when he stated that the Socialist Party could form a government if he wanted to. From there, in fact, a path has been opened. It is important to draw lessons from here, of course, that the elections were not to elect prime ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u153	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u154	The elections were to elect delegates to the Assembly of the Republic and the government solution would emerge from the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic. The right had lost the absolute majority and there were all conditions to be removed from the government. Therefore, we are very pleased that, in view of this new framework which has been opened, it has been possible to find a governmental solution which, in fact, has brought great advances to the Portuguese in terms of the replacement of rights and incomes, which has shown that the path that the right claimed to be the only one was not, on the contrary, the worst of the roads, and has been demonstrated that the Portuguese economy had only to gain with an increase in the purchasing power of most of the Portuguese, particularly those who had the least and could not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u156	This was reflected in the economic figures, reflected in the unemployment figures, actually reflected in another reality for our country. However, Mr President, from our point of view, it was possible to have gone further on some matters and it was not gone because, in fact, the Socialist Party did not follow us. The Socialist Party did not wish to change the legislation of work for the better and therefore not only did it comply with what the right had done as it had even put forward proposals which are still under discussion but which, from our point of view, did not improve, on the contrary, the fragility of the workers, caused by the right policy. It was possible to have gone further, with regard to public services, to the hiring of employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u157	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. It was possible to have responded to the fregies that were extinguished by the PSD and the CDS and that was not at all because the Socialist Party preferred to remain faithful to its idea of the right accounts to make a good figure in Brussels, making it a bad figure in Portugal. That is why, Mr President, and I conclude, we welcome what has happened in this Parliament but we could have gone further and in the next Parliament the CFP will be here to fight for further progress and to prevent it from going back. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u159	Thank you very much, Mr António Filipe, and I would add that, preferably, to fulfill the times of requests for clarification as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u160	It's the parliamentary dialectic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u161	Okay, but for the next legislation that "dialetic" less! [[Laughing.]] To answer these first two questions, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, both questions, which I am grateful for, partly coincide, I believe, on the part of us valuing...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u163	Only in part!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u164	Partly agree, then, in the part where we valued the past and the present of this government solution, and, Mr Filipe, let me tell you that not only was it shown at that time that there was not a single path as if a major blockade had been broken, which was an installed idea that there was a set of options expressed in elections by a significant part of the Portuguese population that, by any dogma, could never have governmental expression. And I'm glad that this dogma was buried. Now, as I have also tried to express in my speech, it is clear that the parties maintain differences, and of course a difference that is natural, i.e., that in the parliamentary days of the PS are asked to apologize there! — for the electorate to strengthen the PS. We, in fact, will not ask the electorate to give more strength to the PCP or give more strength to the Left Block,... [[Laughing.]] ... we believe that these missions are the responsibility of these two parties and we do not want to interfere in your speech on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u165	They'd even hurt! They'd even hurt!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u166	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that there is something that is implicit in your speech — or even much more explicit in the case of Mr Filipe — that I have to highlight as a difference and that I have tried to say in my political statement: we do not think that meeting the budgetary goals is a matter of making a good figure in Brussels. To achieve budgetary goals is the only way to preserve the integrity and sustainability of a social state and public services,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because if they are not sustainable, sooner or later, any right coalition can win elections—let's hope that later! — and use this unsustainableness to implement a programme for the reduction and privatization of public services. It's not a film we've never seen, it's not a preview that's never been announced, and therefore budget sustainability is not a right concern, it's not a European concern, it's not...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u168	... must be a national concern, it must be a long-term concern taken over by all those present in the Chamber and, in particular, by the left parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u169	We now move on to the second round of questions, being the first question of the CDS-PP. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rocha Andrade, of that rostrum, I have listened - I would like to congratulate you, I would say, quite suffocated, on the fact that Portugal has solid public finances. Since you spoke in the Government Programme and in the Socialist Party's election promises, I can only say to you: « Mr. Member, welcome'. It is just that I remember the Socialist Party very well, and as far as you are going up that rostrum to pretend that the Socialist Party has no past, the PS has a past, and it is not as far away as that, Mr. Therefore, perhaps it would be better for him, at the same time as he welcomes solid public finances—which are not an end in itself but rather an essential assumption not only for the functioning of the State but above all for sound and healthy economic growth—the good idea of starting by apologizing for what the Socialist Party has done to Portugal and for bankruptcy to which it has almost led the country. It is that you never, but never, until today, were able to assume that if solid public finances were not an objective until a certain time, and above all until 2011, this was because the Socialist Party had absolutely disastrous governance, for which it still does not take any responsibility today. Secondly, because public finances do not have only one side, they also have the side of how they are obtained, I would also like to ask you, Mr President, when the Government's programme was planned, for example, that the tax burden would reach a maximum record during this legislature. The truth is that you have reached it, Mr President, and even though you continue to pretend that taxes are not paid by people, it is also true that if the tax burden has increased, more and more of the wealth produced by the Portuguese is delivered and consumed by the State. When he talks about public services and says he's defending them from going to private, Mr. Deputies, I have to say that in the last few weeks I have heard about operating blocks to close up, urgents to open up at once, hospitals in which there was no hot water, but the concern that Mr has is not to pass them to private people. The concern I have is with patients who are not receiving due care,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...and, yes, this is also the other side of solid public finances. And the solution, Mr President, was not the public finances to stop being sound, the solution was to have made other choices. Finally, I would like to know where it was planned for the Government Programme that social security was going to be delayed for one and two years to process pensions, that there would be monstrous ranks to remove the citizenship card and the government would still hold people accountable or, finally, that public investment would reach the lowest value of the last few decades...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u171	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish. The table has become distracted and has already exceeded its time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u172	... or that, finally, there would be tax stop operations, which, yes, were known to the tax administration, as it was proven last week. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u173	The same comment I made recently to Mr António Filipe : 2 minutes is not 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u174	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u175	The last request for clarification is from Mrs Inês Domingos. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, came here to make a balance sheet and what was missing was that there were no positive points. In fact, it is good that GDP has grown and unemployment has decreased, but I must also say that it would be extraordinary not to happen, considering that Portugal has benefited from some of the most favourable international settings in recent decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u178	On the other hand, it is worrying that in 2018 there have been 20 European Union countries that have grown more than Portugal. It is serious that when we compare ourselves to the EU average, Portugal is diverging. In 2015, we had a per capita GDP in purchasing power parity which was 77, 5 % of the European Union average and in 2018 it fell to 76, 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u179	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u180	Mr. Member, with this Government, with this majority, with these left-wings, the Portuguese have a worse quality of life than the citizens of the European Union. On the public accounts, Mr Deputy, the deficit in fact decreased, but only increased primary current expenditure at the cost of a deterioration of public investment, which in 2018 was lower than the 2015 level, and as a percentage of GDP is even the lowest in the European Union, and also at the cost of a serious deterioration of public services, while increasing the tax burden to a historical maximum. Mr President, on the promises you spoke about the rostrum, we all remember Minister Mário Centeno, precisely in this Chamber, saying that he would not increase the tax burden — « Read in my lips», he said. Because today we read in the numbers of the Ministry of Finance that the tax burden is at the most historic. Mr President, the signs that come to us from savings, which remain close to historical minimums, of productivity, which has decreased, according to the figures of the Ministry of Finance ; of the external balance which, for the first time, in many months, has been negative again, are all signs of warning that should concern us. And I'd like to know why they are ignored by the Socialist Party and by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u181	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u182	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we have warned the government to change its behaviour. Now is the time to choose an alternative, a reformist alternative for the country, which the PSD begins today to present. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u183	Does it start today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u184	To reply, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u185	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, will make it fair for me to acknowledge that in my speech I said that budgetary or excessive deficit problems had been prolonged for decades and, therefore, includes, by chance, a PS government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u186	Now, in this respect, let me tell you that I have difficulty in recognizing this idea that the right is within the budgetary truth, because I did, by chance, integrate this government that took possession in 2005 and, at the time, an independent assessment was made of the deficit that the previous government had left us — by chance, with a Minister of Finance of the CDS — and the deficit in question would rise to about 7 %, without error, no global financial crisis to justify it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u188	So, this not to be much public finance, you will excuse me, but the CDS may be the last party that can have legitimacy in this matter, in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u189	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u190	Question where was the tax burden in the Government Program? Madam Member, what the Government's programme was saying was that when we strangle the economy, tax revenues come down and we cannot control the deficit; when we stimulate the economy, tax revenues rise and the deficit is controlled. Well, what's going on? If you look at 2018, you will find that about 80 % of tax revenue rises comes from four revenues: contributions to social security, IRC, VAT and IRS. Not with all your imagination will Mrs. Member be able to find an increase in IRC, a rise in VAT or a rise in social security contributions in 2018, and the IRS has come down. The question, therefore, is that the fundamental increase in tax revenue comes from taxes that have not gone up or down, which was precisely the strategy set out in the Government Programme. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u191	By now, Mrs Inês Domingos, one day the PSD has to agree with the PSD. On the one hand, we hear the PSD say: "Alas, there is no expenditure on public services, there is no expenditure on public services", and now, on the other hand, comes the honourable Member and says that the primary current is rising. Mrs. Member, primary current expenditure is that expenditure that is used to pay the operating costs of public services... [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] ...and the people that you are. Members are always saying that there are not enough in public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, of two, one : or they criticize the government for not raising the primary current expenditure or criticising for raising the primary expenditure. Now, in the same session, let's say it's a bit too much. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u192	We now move on to the following political statement, which is from the Left Block. Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About three years ago a working group was formed between the Government and the Bloc to make a plan to combat precariousness. at the end of a year and a half, some positive measures were agreed in this group, such as limiting the duration of contracts in the term; restricting the foundation of these precarious contracts, no longer being young, long-term unemployed or having no activity index to have a precarious contract, even for permanent functions; establishing a renewal limit in temporary contracts, which currently does not exist in the law; ending the individual hour bank and strengthening the means of the Labour Conditions Authority and the law of recognition of labour contracts. However, when he brought his proposal for social consultation, the government offered a number of counterpartes to the bosses who mitigated and, in some cases, emptied even what had been agreed to on the left...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u194	Mr. José Soeiro, excuse me. The gentlemen. Do you mind sitting down? Oh, my God! I think Mr. José Soeiro should be listening carefully. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Among other things, in this negotiation in social dialogue, the Government accepted the employer's requirement to generalize the very short-term oral contracts to all sectors of activity, today only allowed in agricultural seasonal activity or in tourist events of no more than 15 days. In addition, it agreed to increase its duration to more than double. Secondly, the Government accepted the employer's requirement to create a new figure of the hour bank, outside of collective bargaining. Thirdly, the government completely emptied rotational penalty by creating an exception forest and by taking as reference value the mean per sector. Fourthly, the Government understood that it should compensate employers for limiting the duration of long-term contracts by means of a highly penalizing measure: to double the experimental period of young people seeking first and long-term employment. Last week, PS, PSD and CDS-PP approved this proposal negotiated between the government and employers at the working group meeting. It is worth realizing the scope of this last measure: the legal figure of the experimental period corresponds to an initial time when worker and employer, who begin a subordinate work relationship, are tested. With this justification, the worker is not guaranteed, during the experimental period, some of his fundamental rights, from the outset because during that period the employer may terminate the contract without invoking any reason, without prior notice and without compensation. The experimental period is therefore the most precarious of the working conditions provided for in the law. It is much more precarious than a long-term contract. Of all the figures in the Labour Code, the experimental period is also the period of broad employer freedom, because by not having to invoke any reason or justify their decision, the employer may dismiss the worker for any reason, even for discriminatory reasons, as is the case, with pregnant women released during the experimental period. It is that, when the employer’s motivations do not need to be presented, they become completely insindicable. For this reason, the experimental period has always lived in an extremely tense manner with the constitutional precept that prohibits dismissals without just cause. In fact, the law allows, during the experimental period, what the Constitution prohibits: free dismissal, without notice, without reason and without compensation. Where the Constitution protects employment stability, the experimental period radicalizes the condition of vulnerability and precariousness of the worker. The experimental period has always been, to use the expression of João Leal Amado, « at the threshold of unconstitutionality ». That is why the regulation of this figure has always deserved extreme caution on the part of whom legislation and the definition of its duration is a critical issue. When it was created, the experimental period was 15 days long and we agreed that for non-differentiated functions, which do not require special qualification or trust, a few days, a few weeks, are more than enough to measure the suitability of the worker to his duties. 90 days, as in the meantime was placed in the law for these cases, it is already, in fact, an exaggerated period to fulfill the plan that the law proposes. But transforming the experimental period into an entire precarious semester is the area of abuse. Why, for non-differentiated functions, would it take six months to experience? There's no justification for that. by proposing to double the experimental period of young people seeking the first job and long-term unemployed from 90 to 180 days, this proposal by the Government, now approved with the votes of the PSD and the CDS, condemns these two groups to a working status of minority rights. But, in addition to injustice, this proposal is threatened with unconstitutionality. And it's not just the Block that says it, they're jurists of all opinions, from left to right. In 2008, let us not forget, then Minister Vieira da Silva came to propose to extend for the same 180 days the experimental period for the generality of workers. This amendment was declared unconstitutional. In the Constitutional Court's judgment, it was considered that the measure violated the requirement of safety in employment, Article 53. the Constitution, which offended the principle of proportionality and which also collided with Article 18. that of the Constitution, which defines that the law can only restrict rights, freedoms and guarantees—in this case the right not to be dismissed without reason—to safeguard other constitutionally protected rights or interests, which did not happen. The proposal now adopted with the opposition from the left is therefore a danger which risks taking a new lead from the Constitutional Court. It is that, for the reasons of the past, the new accusation of being, in addition to being a discriminatory standard can now be added. The differentiation that currently exists in the experimental period is justified by the different responsibilities and by the complexity of the function assigned to the worker. For functions that require qualification or depend on a relationship of trust, it can be already 180 days and, for leadership and leadership functions, it can be even greater.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u196	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u197	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. But the law never differentiated the experimental period depending on the type of worker. Negative discrimination against young people and long-term unemployed is all less a form of protection; it is all less a measure to combat precariousness. That is why such a measure, which is hostile to the rights of workers and on a collision course with the Constitution, must not only deserve the vote against the left, as it has already deserved, it must also deserve all the action of the Members to be monitored and not see the light of the day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u198	Mr President, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u199	I will respond first to two and then to the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u200	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, I begin by saying that the PSD has always understood and stated that there is no need to change labour legislation, especially since this legislation that is still in force has allowed employment recovery and economic growth that since 2013, 2014, 2015, etc. , it's come to pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u202	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u203	We know that the pressure exerted by the coalition partners has led to another position and we are now faced with the current proposals for amendments. I would also like to say, Mr President, that despite the warnings we have left and the doubts that have raised some of the proposed amendments, the PSD respects and will respect social dialogue. The agreement reached in social consultation is to be respected. Why? Because we understand that this is the way of dialogue and commitment...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u204	Ah! There is now dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u205	... which is more conducive to the development of economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u207	We understand that it is this dialogue between the social partners that achieves the desired social peace, essential to economic growth and the attraction of investment. With regard to the experimental period, Mr President, the proposed amendments result from the same agreement, which we will respect because this dialogue between the social partners resulted. The Left Block insists on disrespecting the agreement that was reached between representatives of employers and also workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u209	The Block continues to view the labour relationship as a relationship of permanent distrust, of permanent struggle, of conflict between the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u210	It's nothing! They're all doing great!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u211	Mr José Soeiro, why does it not allow this possibility of consensus between workers and employers? Will they continue to insist on this disrespect for the agreements that have been reached? Do you prefer to insist on creating a cliché working environment? That's not our way! That is not the way we want to go to Portuguese society. The PSD wants a more democratic, dialogueal, freer, more tolerant and social peace society, so we will respect the social agreement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u212	To request clarification, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I am very sorry, but today, in fact, the Left Block Parliamentary Group is not in its best days. They completely missed the target! They haven't hit one yet! from our point of view, what the Left Block Parliamentary Group should do was watch the batteries against their own inconsistency. [[BE's protests.]] I'm going to explain why I'm saying this. Quite simply, and speaking on the question of the extension of the experimental period which has been very focused, the question is only one and I think it is paradigmatic, in fact, in the behaviour of the Block regarding all that has been done so far and that it has been a systematic rejection of the proposals of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. Clearly, we have a completely different view. We understand that the agreement reached is a very positive agreement, which has improved many issues, but, in some matters, and it is natural, it would require some refinement and, above all, a tightening of a mesh in order to prevent, in our view, possible violations of what were the objectives, and it has always been, of this government, in particular, the fight against precariousness. It was in this sense that, of course, we made our proposals. We proposed, for example, at this level that there should be a communication to the Act, in electronic records, on the conditions of recruitment. I also stress the impossibility that, during the duration of the contract, there was a complaint of this contract in the experimental period.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u214	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u215	There are a number of questions here that have fallen far short of what would be desirable by the Left Block, such as for example, and I will finish, Mr President, the issue of very short-term contracts, which have also been cited and which, curiously, have been plunged by the Block and by the right. In fact, they were plunged by some because they understood that it was an extension and by others because they felt that we were actually restricting. And it was very simple...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u216	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u217	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. With regard to very short-term contracts, we understood that there should indeed be a certain caution, a certain limitation, and we proposed the question of the correlated sectors, therefore not only the sectors concerned but those related to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u218	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u219	Excuse me, Mr President, I will finish by asking the question and thanking you for your kindness. What I wanted to ask the Block is very simple: will they continue to join the right in the votes, forgetting what was a joint course of direct replacement? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u220	Madam Member, I do not lack kindness, but you nearly doubled the time you were given.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u221	I know, Mr. President. I don't usually...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u222	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u223	Mr President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, the Bloc has done a working group with the Government and we have voted in favour of all the positive measures that have been negotiated on the left. We voted in favour of the proposal to limit the term contracts, we were together; we voted in favour of the restriction of the grounds for the term contracts, we were together; we voted in favour of the end of the individual hourly bank, we were there together ; and we voted in favour of a limit of renewals of temporary employment contracts, we were together in that. We are on the opposite side when the Socialist Party votes with the PSD and the CDS, norms for the precariousness of labour relations, such as the duplication of the experimental period or more than the duplication of very short-term oral contracts, contracts that are not even reduced to writing and which therefore allow all kinds of abuses, because the rules are not written and are not even registered in the Labour Guarantee Fund. Mrs Deputy, an abuse like this, of the duplication of the experimental period, is no longer an abuse if you have some flowers on top. But I would like to read to you what the Constitutional Court said about the logic with which the Socialist Party has defended this measure, which is that since we have reduced the maximum time limit of the contracts in time, we have increased the experimental period. The Constitutional Court stated in 2008 : « Regardless of the use that has been made in relation to the right term contract, a greater limitation of its use(...) cannot be legitimately compensated, indirectly, with the increase of another form of work precariousness, through a significant extension of the experimental period, in violation of the principle of safety at work as set out in Article 53 ( 1 ). the Constitution; (...) ». Now, it is precisely this mistake that the Socialist Party, with the PSD and the CDS, is repeating. And we say, and we prevent, that this rule that they want to approve, and that they have passed with the right, runs the risk of being unconstitutional and, on our part, the Constitutional Court will be called upon to pronounce itself. In reply to the honourable Member of the PSD, she would like to continue to quote this judgment of the Constitutional Court which, on the proposal made in 2008, says that this extension of the experimental period from 90 days to 180 days is a « restrictive rule of rights, freedoms and guarantees, since the more prolonged the experimental period is the greater the precariousness of the legal-labor relationship and the more fragile the guarantee of job security ; (...) ». This rule has been dubbed, and when you say that the PSD respects social consultation, the question I ask you is the following: and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic? In fact, the PSD, with the CDS and PS, is adopting rules of greater precaution and including new ways of precariousness in labour legislation, dams and collision routes with the Constitution itself. And for that, they naturally count on our opposition. So the question that we answer is this: between the agreements made with the bosses and the Constitution, to which should we all respect, on which side are they standing? Unfortunately, we have already had an answer in the votes we have made. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u224	We now move on to the second round of questions to Mr José Soeiro. You have the floor, first of all, to this effect, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u225	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I welcome you on the subject you have brought in your political statement and I would like to begin by saying the following: the experimental period has already been two months and, at the moment, what the PS is proposing to the Government — and which here you voted in the Assembly of the Republic — is the experimental extension up to six months, which is nothing more than a currency of exchange because you have limited the use of contracts in the future. As limited to the use of the term contract, it was necessary to find a way to please the bosses and here the Government has invented the generalization up to six months of the experimental period, which is only the total savagery, because during the experimental period the boss can do whatever he wants, he can dismiss the worker without the right to compensation and without any justification. But here the Government says that it has put forward a proposal to amend labour legislation to protect rights. Where? Oh, my God! Only if we're talking about the privileges of the patronage, because the truth is what we're discussing here is just a revision of the Labour Code for the worse. We have heard the PSD say here — and the CDS will certainly say the same — that it is not time to change labour legislation. If those who did it and who worsened it in favour of the bosses here were to say that we had to change labour legislation, we would be surprised! Now, what is essential to realize is that today in the Assembly of the Republic we have a correlation of forces that would enable us to restore basic principles in labour law. In fact, what we have here today in 2019 is the opportunity to, inter alia, to repeal the expiry of collective bargaining; the application of 35 hours of weekly work to the public and to the private; the revocation of hourly banks; the limitation of the use of temporary work; the limitation of outsourcing; and the fight against precariousness. But here the PS has decided, in this matter, to make an agreement with the bosses and with the right not only to keep everything that is bad from the PSD and CDS till it goes further in the attack on workers' rights. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is a matter that separates the waters between capital and work, it is labour law. We know very well that what everyone here will say clearly on which side he is: either he is on the side of the capital or he is on the side of the work. And the vote that has taken place in the field of specialty has been clear about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u226	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u227	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Soeiro warned of the possibility of unconstitutionality and we say the following: until the final vote there should be a review of consciences on this matter, precisely to avoid this situation, and on the part of the PS, the PS and the CDS, which is approved the proposal of the CFP, to revoke the extension of the experimental period, because that, yes, guarantees the fulfilment of the Constitution and the rights enshrined therein. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u228	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u229	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I would first of all like to congratulate you on the opportunity of the subject which brought us to the debate. We believe that these changes to labour law, cooked between the PS and the right, are bad for those who work and suffer from at least three capital sins: first, they further weaken collective bargaining; second, they substantially prejudice the reconciliation of professional life with family life, particularly through the hour bank; third, they encourage the precariousness that the government, curiously, says that they want to fight, through the central theme of their political declaration, that is, through the duplication of the experimental period, that goes from 90 to 180 days. In fact, the experimental period is a period of absolute precariousness, because the employer may at any time, without having to invoke any basis, any reason, and not syndicable, as you said very well from the rostrum, lay off, without any compensation and no compensation for the worker. Thus, if the government and the right extend this period, they are naturally and automatically extending the precarious period, encouraging even the turnover of work to experience, as employers so much like. Furthermore, it was not by chance that employers and employers applauded these PS, government and right-wing measures. We believe that, in this Parliament, there were all conditions for at least expurging what the right-wing did in labour matters at the level of legislation. I am talking about, for example, strengthening collective bargaining by revoking the rules of their expiry; replacing the most favourable treatment with the worker; and replacing the value of compensation in the event of dismissal. But the Government and the Socialist Party preferred another path, turned to the right and, therefore, the results are there. Mr José Soeiro, what I wanted to ask you was the following: in view of the amendments to labour law, which the Socialist Party had negotiated with the right, the honourable Member was surprised by the way in which the employers looked and even applauded the amendments that were cooked between the PS and the right?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u230	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u231	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, the honourable Member today brought to the plenary the question of the review of labour legislation. It was good that you should also remember what you were saying about this labour legislation, that it would destroy jobs. However, what we've seen is that employment has grown, it's growing sustainably,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u232	I'm glad you recognize him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u233	... and this is also due to this labour legislation. So, to make it clear from the beginning, I would like to say the following: this job reform is not the work reform of the CDS, in fact, in the understanding of the CDS, it goes in a direction that is not the one we would choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u234	They've abstained! They've abstained from everything! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u235	Now, we do not forget that this proposal to review labour legislation comes from a social agreement where the government, the unions were represented...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u236	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u237	...and the employers' confederations. And in any agreement, there is a meeting of wills. Therefore, the position of the CDS is very clear: we will be available to enable what has been agreed; whatever is above or beyond the agreement will clearly deserve our opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u239	But, Mr José Soeiro, we are at the end of the Legislature and the Left Block and now also the CFP and the Greens have approved four budgets of this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u240	Here comes the 'fare' of the Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u241	...have always made it possible for this government, which is therefore also your government. [[Protests by the Member of the PCP Rita Rato and the Member of The Greens José Luís Ferreira.]] And what you are also discussing here is whether or not the words of the Government that you support are going to be honored. So at the end of four years, in order to approve four budgets, the Left Block and the PCP complain about what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u242	Now, it's the CDS that votes in favor! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u243	Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Left Block and PCP can only complain about themselves, because they are responsible for this governance, are responsible for this government's existence. As regards labour law, it seems to us that you do not understand everything that is social consultation and, as always, they are against social consultation, they are against the existence of these agreements, which clearly distinguishes us from the leftmost benches. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u244	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u245	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, has drawn attention to the usefulness of this stage of making a warning that this measure, as I have said here, is at risk of being unconstitutional, may still be annulled. We are now, as we have always been, open to finding solutions that are favourable to workers and, therefore, to find a solution to purge this and other measures, such as the increase in oral contracts of very short duration. Furthermore, we negotiated with the Government a number of measures and it was the Government that, when it was to negotiate with the bosses, agreed to offer the bosses a number of counterparties that brought to this proposal the signature of the employers'confederations and also the support of the PSD and the CDS. What is surprising is that in Portugal, which has already had an experimental period of 15 days and now has an experimental period of 90 days for non-differentiated functions, which is already an exaggeration, someone thinks that the problem of a country with so much precariousness, that the problem of a country with so much abuse in the world of work is to have an experimental period of only three months and that doubling it for six months is a solution for whatever it is. Obviously, it is not a solution and it is very bad for the Socialist Party to continue to keep this proposal in the law we are discussing here. Mr Greens, in fact, the result of this discussion of labour law is likely to be a double disappointment. A disappointment, because these precautionary norms have been laid down in the law, which do not exist in the current law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u246	He's still praising the current law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u247	... and were now placed here by the PS, the PSD and the CDS, such as the duplication of the duration of the experimental period or the extension of the very short-term contracts, and also a disappointment for what remains in the law and that comes from the period of the troika, because when the value of the redundancy compensation was cut to less than half when the value of the compensation for overtime was cut when the number of holiday days was cut, the Socialist Party had critical positions on these measures of the troika, the PSD and the CDS. at this time, there is an alliance between these three parties so that the inheritance of the troika, of measures that were even presented as exceptional measures, which were required by a kind of time of exception that was being lived, maintained. These measures, as they are now confirmed in this discussion, will become an acquisition of the centre. This is serious, particularly when, in this legislature, we had all the conditions to be able to balance a labour law that was deeply unbalanced in the period of austerity and troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u248	They can only complain about themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u249	Mr António Carlos Monteiro said that the agreement agreements are always a meeting of wills. That's right! in this specialized process and on these measures, in particular, there has been a meeting of wills between the position of the government, the position of the bosses, the position of the PSD and the position of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u250	And, by the way, of the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u251	It's a disrespect for UGT!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u252	They have been found to approve these measures. Who, like Mr President, who has been in the hearing process always saying that this measure could be unconstitutional, that it was necessary to think of a plan B—and who wants to think of a plan B fears by its plan A, which is the approval of these measures—and who is now 'throwing up' this important debate, what we say is that measures such as this, which make the delight of those who think low wages, that the lack of rights and that abuse should be the standard of the world of work in Portugal, may be the delight of which has this perspective, but should deserve the opposition of those who fight for the dignity of those who work, by valuing workers and by combating precariousness. That's our commitment! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u253	With this speech by Mr José Soeiro, the political statements ended. Now under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, we will have four political interventions, namely Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Mrs Margarida Mano, Mrs Angela Guerra and Mr Fernando Jesus. That is why I now give the floor, firstly, to Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have spent 10 of my last 15 years at the service of Parliament. Despite the numerous times I have come here, when I have performed the duties of Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, the time when I was here, as a Member, was in the opposition. I have worked a lot, I have resisted a lot and I also feel, without modesty, that I have achieved a lot, always in favor of Portugal, in a vision that I consider to be the one that best serves it, although, of course, others disagree. And this point leads me to the greatest value I have learned in this House and I will feel being forgotten: the value of commitment. It is in this House, where the differences — which are the essence of democracies — are exposed and discussed, can also be achieved. The House of debate may also be the House of dialogue. Adelino Amaro da Costa, in a very quoted sentence but not always understood, said that « a moderate uses the commitment to avoid rupture ». And avoiding ruptures will in itself be a national design.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u256	It is easy to see this, when there are large Members, of all parliamentary groups, without exception. Just to quote some parliamentary leaders I worked with—and thus try not to hurt any susceptibility—I remember José Pedro Aguiar Branco, PSD, Antonio José Seguro, the Socialist Party, Bernardino Soares, the Portuguese Communist Party, or Luís Fazenda, the Block of Left. And, of course, the one who, to me, was the most inspiring, Paulo Portas, of my own party. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Interestingly, none of them are here today. I don't know what that means and the most likely thing is to have no meaning, and I am sure those who are here will have to find the same spirit of commitment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have also strengthened in this Parliament the deep conviction I have in freedom and democracy, because it is the value and the system, beyond its difficulties and imperfections, which enables us all to participate in its daily construction. And in a time of ruptures, of diminishing freedoms and of retrogression of democracies, of regimes taken by populists or threatened by corruption to the so-called liberal democracies, it is again necessary to do a profession of faith in democracy. I have seen a lot in these 15 years: a country that went through a phase of euphoria and a country that went through a deep crisis, in which our sovereignty was committed and in which it was necessary to pay a very high price, in sacrifice, in order to recover it. A country that, unfortunately, grew little and created less wealth than the one that was in our power to create. in a time when we can make more free choices, because a growing country is always a freer country, the question we should be asking was how to guarantee the sustainability of our growth. What do we have to do to make Portugal's economy grow on average 3 % a year in the next decade? How will we ensure, in the next 10 years, that our trade balance is globally balanced and that exports represent more than half of our product? How will we ensure that unemployment, which, after the flexibility of the law, has always been falling, remains stable and lastingly low over the next few years? How are we going to break down circles of poverty that are transmitted from generation to generation? How can we guarantee a worker, in times of globalisation, who, for his work, effort and merit, can leave more to his children than he has received from his parents? How can we create conditions for those who want to constitute their own family to do so and thus contribute to the increase in birth, which is fundamental to ensuring the sustainability of the social state? And how can we now build a more inclusive society for our elderly people? And what do we want to do about the environment, we who are the first generation who is beginning to feel the effects of climate change and that we have the power to effectively counter them with regard to human responsibility? And what are we doing to prepare Portugal for the fourth industrial revolution, which is already — using a verb very in vogue, but which does not yet exist in the dictionary — to ‘disromper’ our economy and our working world? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The answer to these questions will have to be achieved, more than in the confrontation, in the capacity of commitment. And I do not hide my concern here today about the difficulties of establishing these commitments. We have witnessed a time of breaking conventions that existed during much of our democracy, of commitments that in the past had never needed the written word to be honored. For the first time, he governs those who have not won the elections; for the first time, he presides over this House someone who has not been appointed by the political group with more Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u257	Poor thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u258	For the first time, social agreements are not respected in Parliament. And even respect for the principle of subsidiarity with the social economy is, for the first time, involved in the provision of health care and assistance to Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u260	I am both concerned about disrespect for both the conventions in America of Mr Trump and in Europe of extremism and populism, as in Portugal of today. What I can't accept is double standards! All these factors, added to a media agenda that is being captured by epiphenomenes that are conjunctural, reduce the intervention capacity of this House. We live in a world where artificial intelligence, automation and robotization, the Internet of things, quantum computers, blockchain technology, the machines they learn by themselves are already revolutionizing the economy and the world of work. We live at a time when technological disruption is profoundly changing our society, but in this Chamber, we more often discuss fox hunting than the ethical, social and economic issues that artificial intelligence puts us in. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Today, we are going to debate the chicken races and we are not going to talk about the trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. We have discussed more often the semantics of the politically correct than the type and number of jobs that will be replaced in Portugal by robots. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u261	I admit that it is not only an evil Portuguese, it is a breathy wind that passes across Europe as a whole. But, to me, I am concerned - to see that the world is turning, increasingly, out of this room and that it revolves on an axis that, increasingly, does not pass through Europe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On Sunday of the European elections, already late, a journalist asked me what I would do next day. I answered with a phrase that, for whom it is from the CDS, has a special meaning: "Tomorrow? Tomorrow I will plant maize trees». The next Thursday, I went, in my own way, planting mace trees. I've been in Cascais, at my school for years, talking to young people about the speed of change I've experienced and I've seen it happen in the last 15 years. In 2005, when I entered here four years after the attacks on 11 September, he did not doubt the political, military and economic supremacy of the United States of America. In Europe, we had just celebrated enlargement to the East. Today, between China and Brexit, everything seems to have gone a century away. In 2005 there was no iPhone, no Instagram, and Facebook had just been born. The year 2005 was the year youtube was born, but Netflix was still only sending DVDs home by postal order. Without Uber, no electric trouts, no Whatsapp or even GPS on your mobile phones, the way we were communicating, the way we were connected, as we saw the news, it seems now a very distant past in history. And all this happened in the lifetime of our students, of the students who are today in 8. o or no 10. years. In the end, even at the end of my speech, one of these students asked me a question: "What is the biggest mistake you can make in politics? » I answered what I want here to reaffirm today: in politics, the biggest mistake is not to make, the second biggest mistake is to give up. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I end with the only words that have some meaning today. Everyone, without exception, thank you very much and a special word to those whom I may have failed. May this be the last lesson: learning from the mistakes we have made. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD, standing, and from the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u262	Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares has a request for clarification from Mrs. Assumption Cristas of the CDS-PP. It is a little difficult to address a request for clarification to the person who is sitting right next door! Maybe they could move slightly from place to place, to one row to another. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u263	Mr President, it is a request for special clarification and I hope that it will be well understood by all. Mr.Luís Pedro Mota Soares is known and recognized by all of us as a Member, as a governer and, also, within the CDS, as a brilliant leader of the, then, Centrista Youth and as our Secretary-General, only to speak of two more relevant positions. The CDS is very grateful for these years of dedication to the public case: those who have also been a Member of Parliament for a few more years. I believe that it was 12 or 13 years as a Member and 4 and a half years as a Minister of Solidarity, in a particularly difficult situation for our country, in times that will be known as the « times of the troika ». In addition to this institutional thanks, allow me a personal note. I met Pedro Mota Soares in 2007 when I joined the CDS, and I remember his warm welcome. Then, 10 years ago, in 2009, when I was elected MP for the first time, Pedro Mota Soares was then the leader of the parliamentary bench, a brilliant leader, who helped me, as many others, to take the first steps in this House. I record your tireless dedication, your permanent work, your creativity in the work dedicated to this House of Democracy, every day, starting well early. We went together to the government and it is a difficult task for it, of which it has disbursed with brilliantness, of, in times of troika and difficulties, to ensure a social emergency network and a good functioning of the entire social, central and indispensable sector in so many areas of our country: from childhood to the elderly, from the most deprived to the sick. He left his mark, which will continue to be recognized by all. Pedro Mota Soares now leaves us in Parliament, but the CDS and I continue to count on him in the first line of politics, the policy that is being done in this House, but which, fortunately, is also doing well in this House. Those who have these political and human qualities of committed service, always committed, in behalf of others and with a spirit of mission, have much and much more to give to the country. In the CDS, we are deeply grateful for all that you have done and I dare say that we are grateful in advance for what you will still do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u264	I will not, yet, give the floor to Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares to reply, because, in the meantime, Mr Adam Silva has also entered into a request for clarification, in a broad sense. You have the floor, Mr. Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, it is also a pleasure for me to be able to speak today at such a special moment of you in Parliament. We have been friends for many years, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that there has been something I can testify to: a huge relationship of trust, of cordiality and, above all, a sense of learning things, of the world and, in particular, of what we have been most interested in, over the past few years, which has been the subject of social security, work and solidarity. Then it was a great pleasure for me, above all, to see him ascend to the role of Minister, to accompany him in this role and to see, to witness and acknowledge his commitment, his denode, so that, despite all the complex conditions that the country went through between 2011 and 2015, there would be more solidarity, more equity, more justice and more social cohesion in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u266	That's good! I should be ashamed to be saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u267	Therefore, they do not admire his last words, in his speech here in Parliament, when he reflected on the challenges of this solidarity world in Portugal, when he reflected on the consistency of the economy in the country and also on the challenges that are before us, of course, with the modesty and probity that is known to him. I didn't know that, besides our friendship, we were also linked to this idea of populists and tree-planters: V. Ex.a prefers macieras, I prefer walnuts, each one prefers what he prefers, but, in the background, we built a better and quieter world, especially an easier world for those who will come after. Mr Deputies, you are still a young man, you are still a young man with a promising future ahead of you, of course, and, therefore, the question I leave you, a little bit in terms of metaphor, is this: and now you will continue to plant masculine or will you pass to the noveros? [[Rice and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u268	Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares, I assume you want to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u269	Mr President, I will use the floor not to provide clarification, but first to express my thanks. Mr President, if I may, I would like to thank you very much, as it is obvious, firstly, to the President of my party, but, above all, to my friend Assumption Cristos: thank you, Assumption, for the words you spoke to me, which have touched me in a very, but even very special way. I also leave a word of thanks to Mr.Adón Silva : who plants macieiras on the CDS is also a man of Trás-os-Montes, Prof. Adriano Moreira. So don't hurt me, but I'll stay in the bushes. One last word, Mr President, to say that I have achieved some things in this Parliament, but there is one which clearly cannot: I cannot impose as Parliamentary name Pedro Mota Soares, which is the one who is registered. Mr President, like many other people, he always treats me for Luís Pedro Mota Soares ; it must be the contingency of who in the 1980s was called LP. [[Explanations of the CDS-PP, PSD and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u270	Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares, in the exercise of these functions, which are always very limited, sees this as an act of rebellion on my part. [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u271	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u272	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u273	Mr. President, it is to present a protest, and I will not use more than 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u274	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u275	Mr President, I would like to protest against the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which do not allow Members to intervene in these circumstances. I would just like to say that Mr Pedro Mota Soares also receives a hug from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and from all the Members who have been accompanying him in this Parliament over the course of time. [[Congratulations from the PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u276	Mr President, do not hurt me, but if you have asked me to make a request for clarification, I have given it. There were doubts about this with regard to the Rules of Procedure, but to 1. the Commission has drawn up a report which has established that, even in the case of these political declarations, it is possible to ask questions to Members, so I was willing to do so. You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u277	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I come today to talk to you about the future. Not from a diffuse future, from utopias, but from a defined future to a human scale, which here in Parliament has the face of all those we represent. The future is always surprising. And yet, people have the need to anticipate, in order to evaluate their lives and to position themselves in the country and on the planet. The Portuguese Parliament also has an obligation to pay attention beyond its mandate to "join points" in the present, to look back, at the same time as it looks forward, ensuring the necessary generational solidarity in which the identity of a people and their survival is based. It is not by chance that I choose the theme of the future for this intervention. I do so essentially for three reasons. I do so first of all because this is a concern that has been with me for many years, present in the cross-cutting of the different professional experiences I have been taking, in academic discussions or simply in the conversations of friends who are concerned about the impact of the technological revolution on the concept of work, with the inevitable change in the tax paradigm of income distribution, or with the climate and potential « sixth extinction». The second reason I do this is because, despite some efforts that I have been able to experience, particularly in the parliamentary group and in the dynamics of the Social Democratic Party, none of us will doubt that this is an absent theme of the regular activity of our Parliament. Recently, the study by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation says that 94% of parliamentary speeches on the environment and public debt do not talk about future generations; 96% of our social security talks do not talk about future generations. And yet a large number of decisions present generate effects on the following generations. We take refuge in the creation of images and scenarios based on beliefs, such as that of current structures and trends, and that today's measures will make sense tomorrow, or that society tends to move by certain values or ideologies, or that history, somehow, will repeat itself. But time doesn't work like that! Let them say so, with their lives, children and young people. I come to the third and final reason — no less important — for the choice of this issue: outside Parliament, there are screams on all sides, particularly triggering, of children and young people who call us right. What to say about young Greta Thunberg, who saw what we do not want to see and, with the strength of conviction, shouted to the international leaders in Davos: « Our house is burning! I'm here to tell you our house is burning! "? It is true that the rapid development of technological areas offers great potential to improve well-being and generate innovative solutions for global challenges, but it also poses demanding difficulties, which only does not see who does not want to see. We can't stay indifferent! We are in this Parliament to serve the present and prepare for the future. This involves reflection, risk analysis, thinking public policies and building consensus platforms. Although we are thinking about the future, the concerns and challenges of this are often forgotten. The notion of continuity, impact and transparency is thus lost. It is essential to ensure long-term vision and institutional memories in the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic. The PSD will therefore propose a « Commission for the Future » in the Assembly of the Republic for the next Parliament, as announced by the President of the Parliamentary Group recently in an open letter to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. The perspective analysis must be cross-cutting, covering all areas of governance, and requires an own and consequent space in Parliament. We understand that the debate on the great themes of the future—from climate to artificial intelligence, going through the demographic challenges we face—requests the continued involvement and participation of all political parties in this House. So after a process of reflection, involving the parliamentary group and the Social Democratic Party, where we looked both at the reality of this House and at the models existing in other Parliaments, in which we listened to various elements and experts of society, regardless of the political color or ideology, we came here to take the commitment to propose the creation of the "Commission for the Future" in the next legislature. We do not intend, with this, to condition those who follow us, but we feel that we have the responsibility to create a space, both formal and real, for reflection, a sanctuary where one looks beyond the tactics and the electoral agenda, where one evaluates what has been done in the past and identifies the challenges that are found on the horizon. We stress: this idea is not unpublished—the Finnish example has more than two decades—and aims to help everything and any government. We are reaching the end of another year of this Parliament and a parliamentary cycle. It is therefore time to integrate the great learning that is offered to us every day in this House. It is in this context that I make my speech and that I choose a proposal for the future. It is a huge privilege and a deep responsibility to be who we are at this time and in this place. We represent a country that looks at us looking forward to solutions and answers to the challenges society faces in today's world. The unpredictability of politics has allowed me to confirm that people actually make the difference. The action of only one woman or one man can be enough for the change to happen. I speak of the political actors, of course, whose responsibility is brutal in the face of the challenges of the future. As the Latin origin of the word indicates, « minister» means « servant», not that which is used but that which is used by others. At the end of this legislature, I cannot but regret the lack of sense of state and service of this government, which insists on not thinking about future generations, only short-term gains, political games, convenience agreements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u279	It does not serve those who, in order to safeguard their personal interests, sacrifice the future of new generations; it does not serve those who are concerned only with appearances and control of situations, who do not see that the future is not controlled, how much the impacts are mitigated and the means are adapted. We are here to serve the State, not to serve the State. We are state vehicles, but we don't confuse ourselves with him. Only then can the change be in fact in the hands of the citizens, it can be the voice of all those who question us, individually or as members of any group. It is always an honor and a lesson of humility to serve. This is an unusual legislation in some aspects. For the first time, the President of the Assembly of the Republic was not appointed by the most represented party, a novelty which demonstrated other possible ways, within respect for suffrage. But it was also a legislature in which, unfortunately, democracy was weakened, by the flagrant lack of sense of State of the Prime Minister in relation to this House, in some situations. Signs of the times, perhaps, but above all, sign that we live an exceptional time. In a sea of uncertainty, without clear horizons, a strong and healthy democracy is fundamental, so that the Portuguese people know that they are in good hands. Time runs and opportunities are lost, for lack of decisive and conscious action. In other words: there is an excess of tactical, media and often misleading actions that do not take us anywhere, but that give the impression of noise and movement. Any gain that may come from these deceptions will be short-lived. To rule is to look further, it is to build a common future, always with the greatest sense of humility. More than ever, transparency is required, but not only formal. It can't scare us from the requirement of accounting. The mechanisms already exist, that is true, and the procedures are formally respected. However, that is not enough. There must be greater respect for the spirit of this House and not only for the letter of its operation. This also applies to the deliberative process in this Chamber. Let us be frank: are we discussing matters or are we just exposing immutable positions, regardless of the arguments put forward by the other parties? Oh, my God! We even function as a forum, where the various views of society coexist, in a joint effort of democratic consensus, or as an arena, where to win is always, and only, the most important? Oh, my God! To whom do we serve, if there are, in addition to ideologies, inexhaustible abysses? Oh, my God! We are in this Parliament to serve the present and prepare for the future. This means building consensus platforms in an area that could be, and I hope it will be, the Commission for the Future. I end with the words of Greta, the courageous young woman who "sees the King naked" and wants to change the world. She says: « This is not a political speech. (...) This is a request for help». She says: “Yes, we need hope, of course we need. But what we need, more than hope, is action. When we begin to act, hope will emerge everywhere». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, live democracy in Portugal of free, supportive and informed people! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u280	We now turn to Mr Fernando Jesus. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u281	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: At the time when the end of the XIII Legislation is approaching, I also finish a parliamentary journey of about 20 years. I have made this decision because I believe that it is good for Parliament to contribute new protagonists, people with new knowledge and experience, to bring a new approach to parliamentary life. This decision was already announced by me at a luncheon of recognition with which, generously, about 500 friends and comrades introduced me to the Port. I'm leaving Parliament, but I'm not leaving political life. I will continue to support the government and serve my party in the fights that need to be stopped. at this moment, I would like to thank my party, firstly, for having trusted my work, for allowing it to be part of this parliamentary group for so many good years. I would also like to thank the Portuguese people, especially the citizens of the Porto district, my constituency, for their confidence in the PS, without which they would not have been elected. I cannot fail to express my thanks to all the collaborators and advisors of the PS Parliamentary Group, for their prestigious collaboration and support over the years, as well as to the collaborators and advisers of the Assembly of the Republic, whose professionalism is never too much to emphasise. to Members of my group, Parliament, a very special word for the friendship and comradeship that we have built over time. Despite the differences of opinion and project of society that separate us from the ideological plane, it was possible to live together and build bridges of understanding, in democratic respect, and even of friendship with many fellow Members of virtually all banks. A word of sympathy and much esteem also for representatives of the media, some of them working in this House since I arrived here. If any enemy I have in this house, I don't know, but I'm sure I leave here many friends and friends in all political quadrants. Mr President, you have exercised the presidency of the Assembly of the Republic with intelligence and special good sense, an exercise that must be increasingly assumed, so that this House is the House in which the Portuguese see themselves in its entirety. The task is not easy, at a time when phenomena of lack of transparency or corruption are on the agenda and when the scrutiny of Members is made to the magnifying board. Members have a duty to know how to distinguish the wheat from the juicy and, without abandoning the struggle for a free, fair and equitable society, the fight against corruption should not lead to the paths of the politically correct or demagogy, which at no point contribute to the quality of democracy and of the institutions that we all defend. I have always held a Parliament open to the citizen. I have also devoted a significant part of the parliamentary activity to receive and accompany groups of citizens and young people of school age, who visit us frequently. I believe that Parliament has taken positive steps in this regard, such as the creation of the Museologic Division and for citizenship, but it can and should give others, in order to make the Assembly of the Republic more open and accessible to those who visit it. Let me give an example: the cost of meals in the dining room for visitors was €7, €30, above the price paid by Members and employees. This situation was neither fair nor acceptable and contributed to degrading the image of the Assembly. Currently, children and all those who visit us pay for this meal only 5, 80 €, for which I have had the honour to contribute. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to go further: for the future Parliament, I leave for consideration that children up to 12. the year of education to visit us, integrated in school trips, the meal is offered by the Assembly of the Republic, as is already the case in other parliaments and in the European Parliament itself, which offers meals to groups of visitors. Investing in citizenship and our children is investing in our collective future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have represented my country in Parliament with honor and great pride. I have always tried to do so with seriousness and sense of justice. In the various committees where I had the opportunity to participate—from work and social security, from local power, from health, from agriculture and the sea and, more recently, from economics, innovation and public works—I have always sought to exercise the functions so that I was asked to think about people and in the best way to serve them. I have always sought to give attention to the policies of proximity, in the profound respect that the citizens who have chosen us deserve, giving special attention to the people of Porto, my electoral circle, where I was born, grew up and became the citizen I am. As an example, I had the pleasure of turning an idea that I had before being a Member of Parliament into reality. With the support of the District Federation of Porto, led by Renato Sampaio, and the Parliamentary Group of PS, led by Alberto Martins, I created in the Port a citizen's office. This office was of extraordinary importance in approaching the electorate. Policy must be seen as a noble activity at the service of citizens. from there that we must have the willingness to listen, take up their concerns and needs and bring them to this House, to the various bodies of the state, to the government. The Member, by the nature of his election, is the interlocutor and the representative par excellence of the people and their problems before the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. That is why it is no wonder that I have not been tired of questioning the members of the different governments, in the committees where I went and in this plenary, whenever I was given an opportunity, giving priority to the issues relating to the voters of my constituency. Many times it has been addressed to Ministers and Secretaries of State, in the form of questions and demands to the Government, to place well-known problems of all, from issues related to education, to the IC35, to the variant of EN14, between Maia-Trofa-Famalicão, to the link of Baião-Ponte da Ermida, to the variant to EN211, between Soalhães-Mesquinhata-Cinfanes, to the electrification of the caíde-Marco section, on the Douro Line, and the continuation to the Régua, such as the degradation of EMEF and CP, to the closure of the offices of Guifões, in Matosinhos, to the Pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João, only to speak of some more recent ones. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The responsibility to transform reality to improve the lives of our citizens is all of us. I leave this House with the concerns that we face on a daily basis, such as the threat of terrorism, climate change, refugees, hunger and poverty in the world. I am also concerned about the low levels of democratic participation in the exercise of the right to vote in electoral acts. I go out with the sense of duty accomplished, but with humility to recognize that much could and should be done. I also miss this Parliament, the debates, the democratic confrontations, the salt that gives meaning to democratic life. But I go out, I go out with a heart where each one of you has a reserved place forever. [[On the stand, applause from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u282	Mr Fernando Jesus, don't hurt me, but you have a request for clarification from Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, who will now make it. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u283	Mr. President, it is the figure which appears to be relevant in these political interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u284	At least it's not a protest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u285	I shall be particularly brief and the brevity of my inquiry contrasts with the longevity of the parliamentary life of Mr Fernando Jesus, because, as he himself pointed out, his parliamentary contribution went through several Acts. It is a pleasure that I, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, would like to thank all the contributions that have been made over the years to the parliamentary bench, but above all, I would like to record its performance and its commitment to the representation of the people who have elected it. I think I am speaking on behalf of all the Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, at the moment when I decided to put an end to their parliamentary life, to their long career as a member elected by the electoral circle of the Port — always by the electoral circle of the Port — when I wish him the greatest happiness in the new phase of life that now begins. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u286	Mr Fernando Jesus, would you like to answer this difficult question put to you by Mr Neto Brandão?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u287	Mr President, I would just like to highlight the friendship and the words I have heard from my comrade Filipe Neto Brandão, who takes into account the profound friendship that unites us, which I believe to be reciprocal. We are almost colleagues in the office—it is not so— because we have been working on the same floor for several years. I'm going from here with hearts full of friends and he's one of the ones who takes the place that's due him. So I take the words he spoke on the account of friendship which, as I pointed out, departs with me, with all of you and with Philip Neto Brandão, without exception. I would therefore like to underline his words as the recognition of a great friend he knows I am. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u288	The next intervention is by Mrs Angela Guerra, but before giving her the floor, I just wanted to say that, obviously, the Bureau is not insensitive to the circumstances of several of our colleagues today to present their parliamentary farewell. As I will not mention them one by one, when Mrs Guerra ends her speech, I will not fail to convey what is, surely, the feelings of the House about these colleagues. Please, Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last June 12th, a group of citizens from the Guard district came to the Assembly of the Republic to deliver a petition. Personally, I adhered, from the very first moment, to this cause, as well as to other colleagues elected by the Guard District. This group of precious people, known as the Mother and Child Health Support Movement of the Guard District, worked for months abnegately, abdicating many of them from their personal, family and even professionals to collect signatures throughout the district. But they did more than that, much more. This Movement was able to bring together the feelings of the vast majority of the population of the Guard district when it comes to health. And, therefore, he has gathered so many efforts, so many volunteers, so many people and people scattered by all the councils of our vast territory. It was an imperative of many consciences, an absolute feeling of need for defense of what is ours that has joined us in this way to bring our voices to the House of Democracy, to show that health in the Guard district also needs to be looked at with other eyes. Maternal-child health and, in particular, the facilities of Hospital Sousa Martins in the area of obstetrics, pediatrics, gynecology, neonatology need support and need works. We have professionals of excellence, we have a team of young and motivated people to work that really dressed the shirt by that department. But the basics are missing: there are no decent conditions for mothers and children who choose to be born in that hospital. The concept of a space with dignity dedicated to this sector is the best way to promote the health and well-being of women, mothers, children and adolescents who use that service and who have as much legitimacy as those living in Lisbon to obtain minimum conditions. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what more than 20 000 citizens call for and demand, for a question of equal opportunities and rights to access services with dignified conditions and structures, is the beginning and realization of the famous works of the flag 5. And what do these works mean? They will say V. Ex.as, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: there are so many hospitals in the country to need works! These works mean a project for the requalification of this pavilion, where a department with pediatric services, obstetrics, pediatric emergencies, obstetric emergencies, neonatology, gynecology should be born, leaving the structural separation of the old hospital, improving, and much, the internal circuits that patients have to travel and dignity to the health of thousands of women and children. They believe, therefore, that these thousands of citizens in my district, as I believe, because I know reality, that if these works are not done, this health area in that hospital will enter into a real collapse. Therefore, more than contribute to raising awareness of the Government and the political decision-makers of the absolute need for this work, what happened was a huge mobilization of civil society throughout the district, with people from all over the territory participating in this initiative, men and women, young and old, health professionals and all other sectors, in a stream of efforts that he even counted on ambassadors of the cause in all the councils, as well as the support of the local political bodies throughout the district, regardless of their partisan colors. Why, today, I decided to join in this House, my voice, more this voice to this cause: the cause of maternal-child health in the Guard district and to the women and children who need this work so much. Why? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because, if in difficult times, with the troika counting every penny that was spent, there was money to invest in Hospital Sousa Martins, now that Dr. Centeno reaches international records with the captivations he makes here in our health, there must also be. The guard's district not only demands, as required, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Minister of Finance and Mr. Prime Minister. And there was indeed investment: in 2012, €3,327 000; in 2013, €2,199 000 and in that year the emergencies were improved; in 2014, €5,808 000 and in that year the new block of external consultations in the hospital of Guarda ; and in 2015, €2,503,000. And it was possible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There was money. These figures show this, unlike those of the following years: 1, 2 million euros and 1, 3 million euros already under the aegis of Dr. Centeno, a great mentor of international finance, but the real agonist of the SNS ( National Health Service ) in Portugal and the interior of the country. I was saying, yesterday, a Mrs. Journalist said that a financial collapse would be settled with money. A collapse in the functioning of the State is a much more difficult problem to solve and has much higher costs. That's right! Many have already stated it, but I say it, today, once again: the passage from 40 hours to 35 hours, made without the due safeguard of the guarantee of sufficient professionals in the services was a huge error in the health sector, because this problem has been added to other serious organizational problems, already existing, and the absence of changes that were subsequently postponed. As they cry out that austerity is over, there are people waiting for more than four years for surgery in my district. As the end of austerity is celebrated, there are cancer patients who lack material for their surgeries in my district. While Dr. Centeno boasts in Europe with the end of austerity, there are firemen to whom the ULS ( Local Health Unit) of the Guard cannot respond following a road accident and must be redirected to Viseu. While Dr. Centeno and Dr. António Costa smile happily with their historical deficit, there are fire companies waiting for 35 million euros of transportation of patients who have done long ago and that Mrs. Minister of Health does not pay them. But more, it fails much more in the health and district of Guarda: it is the doctors who do not reach the hospitals as much as possible for the health centres; it is the specialties, such as orthopaedia, ophthalmology, cardiology, which do not even have minimal emergencies; it is the competitions that do not open, there are about 80 nurses left to ensure the safe allocations, there are no higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, there are no medicines in the pharmacy, lack of surgical material, and there are patients who have to stop their treatments due to lack of medication. Shame, so shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u290	In the time of Rabbit Steps, wasn't it missing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u291	It seems to me, modestly, that there is also a lack of courage to say one thing: it is enough! The paralysis and amorphism that this government has voted on the essential structures of our country cannot leave us serene in our homes, in our work and in the other places of society we occupy. This will not forgive our children and will not forgive us the future of the country. We need integrated and articulated health services, in which the interests of people are, indeed, the center of the system and in it they have true freedom of choice. We obviously need—and only those who do not know at all the country can think differently—in a system where the public sector, the social sector and the private sector interact with each other, depending on the interests of the citizens and improving their accessibility to health care. And we urgently need an extension of the provision of health services by enhancing the transition of care provided in institutions to care for proximity, in conjunction with community partnership responses, particularly in terms of rehabilitation and post-hospitalization care. Doing more, but better, with adequate resources is a prerequisite for system efficiency and a condition for a quality health system. With petitions as I mentioned here today, civil society gives us an example of its non-conformity and its capacity to claim. We know that we, the holders of public office of this nation, are up to this fight against inequalities of access, geographical, economic and giving them full response. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern of this government has so far been only the appearances of the newspaper the following day. What is expected of us is that, responsibly, we know how to manage and govern for the next generations. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u292	Since no one enrolled to request clarifications from Mrs. Angela Guerra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u293	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u294	... before we proceed with the order of business, I just wanted to leave a note, as I said recently. Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares — who is certainly not protesting that I continue to treat him by Mr Pedro Mota Soares — and Mr Fernando Jesus has announced to us today his decision to leave parliament. Both of them were Members for many years and, over these years, proved their dedication to the public cause within and outside Parliament. I therefore know that, even if I did not have a mandate to do so, I am speaking on behalf of Parliament when I tell both of them that Parliament is grateful for what they have done in carrying out these duties. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause]] I also know that I am speaking on behalf of Parliament, saying that we all wish not only that your future life, professional and personal, be obviously full, filled and at the level of what they deserve, but also that this departure from Parliament does not mean the abandonment of political life and the abandonment of the public cause which, so far, have served for so many years and with so much commitment. We then move on to the second point of our order of business, with the appreciation of Petition No 438 / XIII / 3. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Establishment of legislation to prohibit chicken races in Portugal, together with Bills Nos 1095 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Determines the prohibition of dog racing, best known by chicken races, and 1225 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ban chicken races and other dogs. To present your legislative initiative, you have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the recognition of a new status for animals in general, and of criminal protection for dogs in particular, it has been found that they continue to appear or persist in activities, such as the race of chickens, which perpetuate the exploitation of animals, which subject them to particularly difficult training, which subject them to abandonment and unworthy living conditions. Chicken races are an organized and competitive sport in which dogs are placed on a track and at the sound of the game are released, winning the fastest. In principle, it seems like a harmless activity, but it is not at all. The motivations of its organizers are purely lucrative, totally disregarding the well-being of the animals used. These are subjected to violent training, electrified collars are used, for example, and for racing itself, doping is normal. It is also common to resort to steroids to see increased muscle mass and more energy during racing. When the animals no longer support the races or are not good enough due to the scenes caused by the brutality of the activity, they are often abandoned or killed. All this for some fun, fortunately few. And they don't even have the snarled excuse of tradition. I finish, thanking all and all those who have rescued, recovered and cared for chickens who have been discarded and who, like the SOS Animal, have given voice to the firm denunciation of this futility surrounding suffering.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u296	To present its legislative initiative, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor on behalf of the Bloc de Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking the 4586 petitioners for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. Chicken races in Portugal are a fajuta imitation of chicken races from international industries, such as those promoted in Ireland or the United States. This business is worth thousands of dollars, or euros, and it survives on account of animal abuse, whether in the creation, training or also in the death or abandonment of these animals. Each animal can cost EUR 30,000 — which is equivalent to a medium-range car — and many are bought to breeders in Ireland, although there are also about two dozen breeders in Portugal. There are reports of excessive confinement, doping, illegal betting, unlicensed racing and animals that are abandoned at birth, when they are hurt, what is also frequent, or when they can no longer run, because of wear. There are races that, despite the heat that occurs in summer, take place in July and August, but that have recently been contested north, in Vila do Conde and Gueifães. Now, we have taken measures against animal abuse here and we have had difficulties in dealing, as a society, with the abandonment of dogs and cats, one of the reasons why the official animal collection centres say they cannot respond to the law of non-abatement. We have introduced into the legislation changes in the outlook for animals, providing them with legal personality and assuming that they are sensitive beings, and now we have legislation protecting pets from ill-treatment. All this would be enough for chicken races not to happen in Portugal, but what happens is that these exist, involve several dark practices and are omitted in the legislation, which, in our view, makes no sense. It is in this perspective that we intend to include this race within the framework of the law on ill-treatment of pet animals and which logically leads to the prohibition of this practice. If we want to combat the abandonment of animals and their ill-treatment, we cannot be concerned with the existence of practices that gain with the uncontrolled reproduction of dogs and which rule out them when they are not necessary, either because they do not correspond to the physical characteristics needed for birth, or because they are no longer able to run and have to be replaced by others. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u298	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are again debating the lack of knowledge and distortion of facts, which in this case have as their sole objective the amendment of animal nature. All the wages of an obsessive will of two parties, the PAN and the Block of Left, who want to be, today, the new creators of nature. Ineligiblely, the two draft laws in question prohibit running dogs — the final point! Unbelievably, without any rules or more definitions. What would lead, of course, if this were to happen here in Portugal, to, for example, any one of us who was caught running with two dogs was preempting the law. [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] And I'm not talking about man, because for now, the Left Block and the PAN still think that man can run and even participate in athletic tests. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] Another absurd example would be to shoot a ball for two dogs to catch. There, for example, we would be condemning an innocent child to a crime of leeching fatherhood for having two dogs running. Mrs. Members, even more: the PAN and the Left Block say there are bets in the dog races. Surprisingly, the gentlemen. Members do not use your sovereign duties to put an end to this wrongful act, nor even to denounce it. They just want to finish the dog races. Therefore, illegal bets continue, but what you have to finish is dog racing. [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] This is the way that you are. Ladies and gentlemen want to impose on us, with all your ignorance of the real world, that world that is not seen at the bottom of your apartments, or that is not even lived on your social networks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are breeds of dogs who like and were born to run more than others, like the chickens,... [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] ... just as there are water dogs, guard dogs or breed dogs hurryed for search and rescue. Learning to respect these differences is essential to defend a more just and balanced society among all species. Therefore, the ban that you are introducing to us today is an attack on ecology. It is even a condition for the treatment of the animal, a condition for what is animal nature, which, yes, raises serious doubts about what is animal welfare, and you have to answer for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u300	And we'll abandon them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u301	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the freedom to defend the animal cause implies using good sense, something which, unfortunately, has been missed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to finish, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with a sentence from Cicero's speech against Catilina: « Until when, O Catilina, will you abuse our patience? How long are you still gonna make fun of us? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] [[BE and PAN protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u302	Mrs. Members, before we proceed with the work, I would like to inform the House that Mr President of the Republic of Mozambique, Filipe Nyusi, who I would like to welcome the House. [[General applause, stand up.]] You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two bills today, whose title, in the most concrete case of the draft law of the NAP, has nothing to do with the content. According to the title, chicken races are prohibited, but in practice what is intended is to prohibit all racing with dogs of all races—and this is quite explicit then in Article 2. o. The Left Block, in that, is intellectually more honest, because it claims soon that it intends to ban the races not only of chickens but also of all other dogs. There are two points that need to be made clear here. First of all, in Portugal, animal races with bets are prohibited, contrary to what they want to make the bills believe in, in particular, that of the NAP. The cases presented in the explanatory statement do not exist in Portugal, so it does not make sense to legislate on the basis of alternative realities that are not ours. Secondly, the chickens, being dogs, are pets and, as such, are already protected by the law of criminalization of animal abuse. Therefore, if there is any breach, that controls itself and that the law is complied with. Given this, the most serious in these bills is not what is written but, yes, what is not written. If these bills are approved, in addition to the race of galgos, on track, amateurs, existing under the law, as, indeed, the Block of Left refers, races which are controlled by the GNR, which occur in the presence of municipal veterinarians and which have the support of the authorities—see the example of Vila do Conde and how, even today, the veterinarian Vila do Conde, who is present in the various races, came to say that the animals are all controlled and, unlike other races, never, in 15 years, as municipal veterinarian, have seen a dog of the yellow race on the public road, and in addition to the Vila do Conde, there are, in fact, in Bombarral, Cuba and Castro Verde, amateur races on fixed tracks—if these drafts of law are approved, as said, in addition to these races, there will be prohibited hunting and coaching. It's that hunting the bug is a hunting model that happens with dogs running after the hare and behind the fox. In fact, the Left Block and the PAN have tried, several times, but unsuccessful, in this Chamber, to ban this type of activity and now they try again, turning the matter back. So the most serious is what is not written. Worse: the NAP bill aims to turn some hunters — these who hunt the placard — into criminals who are subject to imprisonment for up to two years. For all this, these bills cannot take our support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u304	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have two draft laws which aim to ban the races of chicken dogs and all other dogs. This ban is based on assumptions that, if it is not a lie, they will at least have to be proved in our country. Both bills rely on information about the situation in foreign countries, where chicken races are part of the betting industry and where, therefore, they represent many million euros. This is not the case with Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The chickens are toys and they like to pursue objects, it's in their nature! [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] As with any other dog, an important part of the care that must be taken is to allow the yellow dog to exercise its natural instincts and conditions should be created for this. This principle should, in fact, be respected, whenever one wants to defend an animal and not suppress these natural instincts, disregarding the essence of the animal. The chickens need a lot of exercise for their well-being. If they are not given this opportunity, they may eventually result in frustrated dogs. in this sense, the races are another element that contributes to the realization of the natural instinct of the galgo dog and its well-being. The truth is that none of the bills currently under discussion opposes racing because none dares to say that the race is not of the nature of the yellow dogs, or that these animals were not on the list of the fastest animals on the planet. As you can easily see, running promotes the well-being of these animals! The chickens are animals indicated for sport and also for company. We can even claim to be an ambitious race corridor and a huge appreciater of the warm sofa. Neglect, ill-treatment and neglect are reprehensible and unacceptable. However, this is valid for chickens and any other dog, or any other animal! And, for these cases, the law already provides for its protection and well-being, through the criminal regime, introduced by Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August. For this reason, the CFP, since the first hour, has intervened with the aim of eliminating these conducts, having taken the lead in this matter with the approval of the law aimed at the creation of a network of official animal collection centres and establishes the prohibition of slaughtering animals. On the contrary, the real intention contained in these bills is to give body to politics based on the trilogy "punish, fine, arrest". As if, with the ban on chicken races, the problem is solved! Not only would he not stay, how he would get worse! Yes, we should develop measures that promote awareness of animal welfare, respecting its nature and promoting its well-being. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u306	I have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mr José Manuel Carpinteira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting the petitioners, the PAN and the Left Block for the initiatives put forward. In Portugal, chicken races are usually a complementary activity of kinetic activity and take place in some rural areas, as in urban areas there are, for example, competitions, exhibitions, agility tests and other activities for pets. In existing legislation, chicken races do not fall within the scope of the law providing for the licensing of competitions and exhibitions of pet animals, conferring competence to the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, which is now assigned to municipalities in terms of decentralization of competence. These races do not also have a framework for commercial shows by regulating the sale of tickets. Many are integrated into local party programs and open access spaces, in some regions of the country with more tradition in the creation and execution of chicken races, as is the case with some municipalities of Alentejo and the Mininho region. Regarding reports of doping situations and ill-treatment to the chickens, which are at the origin of these bills, it is important to clarify that animals that do not have competitive fitness are removed from the races, are reformed and welcomed as pets, considering that it is a docile, obedient, calm and intelligent race, like many other breeds of pet dogs. The argument that chickens are used for entertainment or entertainment of people is an argument that is extensible to all pets, in particular animals that are used in contests or exhibitions of beauty, or in agility tests, or even in zoos. in this context, it would be necessary to point out that authorisation for the realization of chicken races is mandatory to be accompanied by veterinary physician, so that aspects related to identification, health and, eventually, anti-doping checks are safeguarded. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: societies evolve and issues of protection of nature, the environment and animals have undoubtedly gained greater sensitivity. Scientific research has evolved in its various aspects and it is now indisputable that animals have the ability to feel and manifest pain and suffering. Considering that practices of abandonment and ill-treatment of pets are already criminalized by Law No. 69 / 2014, we understand that what must be done and encouraged is the supervision and enforcement of the law in force. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the objective of the bills under discussion is to prohibit the execution of chicken races. It is only that, given the parks three articles that these bills contain, they suffer from many gaps to be applied by the supervisory authorities. In conclusion, I want to say that we accompany the concern about the welfare of animals, but we cannot follow this prohibitionist trend based on assumptions. On the contrary, these initiatives should focus on training methods and activity regulation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u308	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u309	Mr. President, the prejudice shown this afternoon...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u310	Prejudice? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u311	...he ignores even the petitioners who bring this initiative. We're talking about around 4500 people, and I'm not talking about myself or the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr André Silva is part of the petitioners, but there is a wide range of people who raise this issue and who did it during the last week, about the races that have been held in Porto. They also talk about the issues of supervision, particularly in Family, which was a council where there was no knowledge of these races being carried out. When Mr Nuno Serra raises the issues of the shift towards the real world, I wonder - when will he raise the issue of urban depressive eating bean! In fact, it is only necessary to bring this argument here, which is not serious, when we are discussing conflicts of interest regarding animal welfare and how we behave in relation to respect for animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u312	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u313	What I would like to ask is whether or not you want to combat abandonment and ill-treatment of animals? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u314	We move on to point three of the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 520 / XIII / 3. a ( Filipe Nuno Gouveia Ferreira et al.) — They request Portugal to sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, together with the Draft Resolution Nos 1081 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, for ratification, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by the United Nations, on 7 July 2017, 1864 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, 1954 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and 1958 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Mr António Filipe of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the subscribers of this petition and say that on the side of the CFP Parliamentary Group we are entirely in line with what they claim. We believe that the ratification by Portugal of this United Nations convention is of the greatest importance, even as a constitutional imperative, in so far as Article 7 is concerned. that of our Constitution, concerning Portugal's position on foreign policy issues, including the maintenance of peace, should lead us to be at the forefront of ratifying initiatives like this one, which aim to preserve world peace. Indeed, nuclear proliferation is one of the essential issues, a fundamental threat to peace on our planet and we believe that this significant United Nations position is taken by nuclear deterrence and the elimination of nuclear weapons on a global scale is something that must deserve the full support of humanity. from the point of view of the Portuguese State, we believe that it must deserve an unequivocal position in this regard. We believe that the draft resolution submitted by the CFP, in order to recommend to the Portuguese Government that it submit to this House the procedure relating to the ratification of that international treaty, corresponds to a necessity and that we propose that this adoption of the position of the Assembly of the Republic be the starting point for the implementation of this procedure. This is the reason for our initiative: to correspond to this petition, to consider it to be of the greatest fairness and that it corresponds to an imperative, not only for Portugal but for all countries. We believe that our country should set the example and that this initiative, adopted in the United Nations with more than one significant majority in 2017, has two years ago been implemented in Portugal. We think that should have been done. However, time should not be wasted and we believe that it would be feasible, in the shortest possible time, for the Portuguese Government to submit to this House the approval process for ratification. Our proposal is that the Assembly of the Republic should take this position so that the Portuguese Government is called upon to assume its responsibility to submit the matter to the Assembly of the Republic, in addition to the position we now propose, in order that this ratification process be concluded as quickly as possible. This is indeed the objective of the draft resolution which the CFP promptly presented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u316	For an intervention, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nuclear weapons are a huge and serious threat to humanity and its use could bring catastrophic and irreversible consequences, causing widespread death and destruction and releasing radiation with long-lasting and disastrous effects that will leave sequels over many decades. In the face of the horror of such a catastrophe, it is urgently necessary to eliminate nuclear weapons, because this is the only way to ensure that they will not be used, and in this sense the convergence of wills in action by a world of peace must be deepened. Indeed, the danger of the use of this weapon, associated with the tension and serious threats to peace and security that have marked the international situation, makes it even more urgent to call for the end of nuclear weapons, because it will only be possible to guarantee peace and security. Therefore, on 7 July 2017, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was approved at the UN General Assembly ( United Nations ) to negotiate a legally binding instrument prohibiting nuclear weapons, leading to its total elimination. This objective is shared by more than 120 States, which have committed themselves not to develop, acquire, store, use or threaten to use atomic weapons, thus giving expression to the aspirations of peoples for a world free of nuclear weapons. It happens that, until today, the Portuguese State has not yet ratified the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, although, as a member of the UN and in respect of our Constitution, it must stand in defence of peace and fight for the elimination of nuclear weapons. As we know, the use, even in a small fraction, of existing nuclear weapons would pose a serious threat to all forms of life, so nuclear disarmament is essential to safeguard the solidarity, peace, security and survival of humanity and all living beings, and this must be a priority objective of States and an effort of all of us. in this context, the Greens reaffirm the urgency of the elimination of these weapons and their non-proliferation, and it is absolutely essential that the Portuguese State sign and ratify this Treaty, respecting the constitutional principle establishing « general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament », as determined by Article 7. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. To that end, but also seeking to meet the objectives of the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that was at the root of this agenda—and who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of it to welcome—, we propose that the Assembly of the Republic recommend that the Government sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by the United Nations, and create the necessary conditions for its ratification. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u318	We will continue with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u319	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, in particular, the Portuguese Council for Peace and Cooperation, because it allowed us to have this moment to debate something fundamental not only for the country but for the world. It tells our Constitution that we, as a country, defend the « general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament». Therefore, when the United Nations promotes, internationally, a treaty for the prohibition of nuclear weapons, which would make sense, following this Constitution, that Portugal was of the first countries to ratify this Treaty. Who is the 'general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament' must have no doubt as to which side it is placed in this area. We know that, curiously, Portugal is protecting the ratification of this Treaty and, despite 70 countries — I repeat, 70 countries! — already signed it, Portugal did not intend to follow this path with the previous government, with the positions of the PSD/CDS, and with this Government does not intend to follow it either. The reason for this is that the current Minister for Foreign Affairs considers — and we will see whether they do so here too, PSD and CDS — which, more than the Constitution, is worth membership of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). It is on behalf of this militaristic alliance to which Portugal belongs that they cannot sign a treaty for the end of nuclear weapons. The choice is obvious: either the country takes itself seriously and fulfils its Constitution or, after all, the country does not take itself seriously and does not comply with its Constitution to be subservient to the interests of others. from the Left Block there is no doubt! There is no doubt, because we welcome the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is absolutely fair in what it defends for Portugal and in the way it puts Portugal in the world, in defense of a peaceful world, for widespread disarmament, enabling us to have a diplomatic role to demand this conduct for others, and because we reject this idea that, after all, Portugal is a subsidiary of any imperialist intention that sees in nuclear weapons a way of valorizing its strength. We'll see how the parties are placed in this House. When it comes to patriotism and sovereignty, it is in this sort of choices that you see, after all, who is on the side of a sovereign nation, who is patriotic in front of Portugal, or who is subordinate to the interests of other States. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u320	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons represents the first legally binding international agreement for the purpose of banning nuclear weapons. A nuclear war, a perfectly possible scenario since there are nine declared countries that hold this type of weaponry, would endanger the balance of the planet and humanity, encompassing the ability to kill and immediately hurt tens of thousands of people, to cause permanent and irreversible damage to ecosystems, to reduce global temperatures and to determine food shortages in the world. This theme brings various concerns to the NAP, not focusing on the possible aggression of the life or physical integrity of people or the material destruction of various infrastructures. The environmental impact of nuclear weapons would be profound. We think of radioactive waste, also known as 'atomic waste' and a by-product of nuclear weapons, which represent a tremendous danger to the environment, given the inherent radioactivity, toxic and carcinogenic, even in small quantities. It is therefore essential to complete nuclear disarmament, which is a guarantee of world peace and security, as well as the survival of all ecosystems, which can and should be strengthened by the signing and ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Finally, stressing that Portugal is the only country in the Community of Portuguese-speaking countries that has not signed and has not ratified this document.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u322	We moved on to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 13,000 petitioners who addressed this House, exercising such an important right of political participation with the presentation of this petition. Alongside this petition are discussed four other draft resolutions for Portugal to sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. It is therefore necessary to highlight the merit of the Petition with regard to the opportunity to bring to this House a matter of topicality and global relevance, allowing further reflection on existing instruments to respond to the nuclear threat in the world. Both in the hearing of the petitioners, and in the hearing of the representatives of the International Campaign thee the Abolish Nuclear Weapons and the Peace Boat Hibakusha project, was claimed a world free of nuclear weapons. This is a design that brings us all together. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is, in fact, well-intentioned and reflects many concerns that Portugal shares with regard to the devastating humanitarian consequences of the possible use of nuclear weapons, as well as the almost stagnation of efforts to eliminate these weapons. However, it seems to ignore the international context, which is increasingly complex. as we look at the current international environment, we see that what is happening is the inverse path to nuclear disarmament. Both the United States and Russia and China are betting on modernizing and expanding their arsenal. In addition, the United States has abandoned the nuclear agreement with Iran and has suspended the Treaty of Nuclear Intermediate Scope, one of the latest major nuclear arms control treaties with Russia. The reality is that the ban on the possession of nuclear weapons is today an unrealistic objective. Furthermore, to achieve this goal, it is essential to involve nuclear States and their allies, and they have not participated in the negotiation of the prohibition treaty. We therefore believe that the path must follow a process of gradual reduction of nuclear weapons, as called for by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This is, in fact, the only binding multilateral treaty for nuclear disarmament signed by the five declared nuclear-weapon countries, which is, in our view, the basis for seeking nuclear disarmament at the global level. In addition, this treaty created channels and platforms for dialogue, an agency itself, with experience and common work on the subject, something that should be valued when we talk about such a sensitive topic, on which only peaceful dialogue on the basis of common terms is viable. For all this, the Socialist Party does not consider it relevant or timely to ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Indeed, it is essential to continue the effective and full implementation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, achieving a world free of nuclear weapons will only be possible with a multilateral effort, in which all international actors participate with political will, a concerted will and on the basis of verifiable criteria. hence the importance of the forthcoming review conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which will take place by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u324	You now have the floor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We recognize the profound importance of today's debate in this House. This is a very serious matter, with a strong impact on the future of the world in which we live, but extremely delicate. For us, social democrats, it is indisputable that the path that humanity will have to go towards ending the use of nuclear with military objectives. We are fully aware of the enormous risks associated with the use of nuclear weapons in any possible conflict in the present or future. We thus realize very well the movements that have made themselves feel in this sense a little around the world, in a logic that defends peace and harmony. However, the strategic complexity of this issue does not facilitate the adoption of simple positions at a time when the political orientation of major nuclear powers and countries is far from clear. I would even say that the need to increase the diplomatic efforts around this issue is not sympathetic to the rush that could compromise future efforts. This is how our position, which defends global and lasting peace, must not fail to take into account two very practical aspects in geostrategic terms: firstly, we recognize the dissuasive effect of the nuclear power of the Armed Forces of several countries inserted into regional realities marked by already long conflicts, with a very delicate and complex historical genesis; secondly, it is also very clear that the natural logic of our external relations, in a political framework for the defence of democratic values that characterize the Western world that we are proud to be part of, points to the respect for the collective commitments assumed in the context of large multilateral organizations that we integrate, as is the obvious case of NATO. Therefore, in a very pragmatic and reflective way, we believe that the political priority of the Western world must, at present, point to the guarantee of the non-proliferation of these nuclear weapons, admitting that this is not the time to affirm radically its elimination. Allow me, in fact, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this point I would like to mention recent statements by Minister Santos Silva, in which I fully review. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u326	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u327	What we and the other members of NATO say is that this issue of the end of nuclear weapons will be raised in due course. at this time, what is needed is to avoid proliferation of nuclear weapons and, of course, NATO, as a political-military alliance, is not available to unilaterally abdicate one of its most important deterrent instruments, which is the nuclear force. For us, this is the time for active, sensible and realistic diplomacy, which will give more guarantees to defend the future of the world we have today, understood in a democratic and humanist logic. I must also point out that we are surprised by the continuing hypocrisy of all those who, standing up for non-democratic countries, with a clearly belligerent defence policy, who favor criminal dictatorships,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u328	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u329	...come, now, put on lamb's skin to defend the elimination of weapons that equip the military arsenals of those countries. [[PCP protests.]] We will therefore vote consistently against the draft resolutions now put to our consideration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u330	All we had to do was say Trump's cool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u331	Santos Silva said it all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u332	To conclude this item on the agenda, Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners, who are in important number, who present this petition, a petition which, as well as the draft resolutions, has in itself purposes and objectives which seem to us to be kind. I would say that, more than kind, it has goals and objectives that must be supported by all of us. Of all those who believe in peace as a fundamental objective of all mankind and in the peaceful resolution of conflicts as, more than best, the only way of resolving these conflicts, making, therefore, the overall reduction of the arms race, in particular the one that is most lethal and which historically caused the tragedies that have caused, which is nuclear, the essential objective that must unite all. As for the objectives, as regards the purposes of the petition, with greater or less sympathy in relation to some considerations made in the draft resolutions, I would say, even with regard to the draft resolutions themselves, we agree. We no longer agree on the means, in the sense that it is intended to be through decisions that will, more or less, divide the international community, decisions of more or less rupture, which is somewhat what this petition and these draft resolutions ask for and what would happen if Portugal ratified this treaty as a way to combat this same proliferation. I recall that this resolution was adopted by one third of the United Nations countries. It's not much, but it won't be enough, I say. None of the countries that approved it were called "power", at least those declared and officially assumed as nuclear powers. This makes this position, in some way, of strength, on the one hand, more dividing than unifying in the objective which, I repeat, should be common, and on the other, it would lose, of course, the strength it deserves. Finally, of course, Portugal must not forget — and in this respect we follow the caution of the Portuguese Government — the international commitments it has with other organisations, such as NATO, yes, Mr President. Members, but also the United Nations. [[PCP protests.]] We must not forget that, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations of Portugal, any "belligerent" position or, if they wish, more or less biased by the Portuguese State could even weaken the position of the United Nations and its Secretary-General in order to seek to sensitize all countries, all without exception, so that they can put an end to this proliferation of weapons. We cannot therefore follow these draft resolutions. We believe that such initiatives can somehow meet what is fundamental, that there is active diplomacy, but at the same time encompassing all sensitivities, in a matter which is, of course, sensitive. The world does not go through a good time and therefore any more or less unilateral step is counterproductive in relation to the desired objectives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u334	We move on to point four of the order of business, with the appreciation of Petition No 522 / XIII / 3. a ( Eduardo da Fonte Ferreira et al.) — They request the conversion and integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1889 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of an integrated continuous care unit and rehabilitation at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, 1903 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, thus increasing the number of public beds on this network, and 1956 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — The implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão (Penacova). To begin the debate on this item on the agenda, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group wanted, firstly, to greet the petitioners who are present in the galleries and, in particular, the Movement + Health for the Lorvão Hospital, as well as the more than 7000 subscribers of the petition we are discussing today. In Lorvão, the monastery is an unmistakable part of the landscape, territory, history and everyday life of the population. Until 2012, there worked a psychiatric hospital, whose closure completely altered the life and day-to-day of the locality, which became more empty, less moved. Since then, the degradation of these facilities has been accentuated and a public service by hand of the former PSD/CDS Government has been closed again. We had many opportunities to listen to the population and that was what we did in the field on several occasions. There we were talking to all of them, visiting the site, understanding the needs, understanding the feelings of all those who wanted to talk to the PCP and we realized that that community wants the creation of a continuing care and rehabilitation unit in the facilities of the old hospital. More: also local populations and municipalities in nearby areas see this solution with good eye. In fact, in seven municipalities in three surrounding districts, motions were adopted in exactly this direction. Missing public service at the level of continued care. In this case, there is a public space, which has already received a hospital, and which is not only being wasted as the government has even thought it to be dispatched to private interests, because of the REVIVE programme, it must also be said, with the competition which has been launched to become desert. The building has all the conditions for multipurpose solutions, with a space for continuous care, palliative care, rehabilitation, occupational therapy. It is true that you need investment, but it is also true that you have immense conditions for having all this kind of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u337	The people of Lorvão remember so much that it was done there in the psychiatric hospital, and they know so much that it can still be done with the installation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit. In addition, the CHUC — Hospital and University Centre in Coimbra —, despite its huge size and covering a huge number of users, does not have continuous care and has frequent difficulties in freeing beds for the most acute situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Network of Continuous Integrated Care has an absolutely residual number of beds in the National Health Service. The PCP argues that more and better public service needs to be advanced and, therefore, what we propose with this draft resolution is that the Government initiate the procedures, still in 2019, for the creation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit in the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital of Lorvão and its integration into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u338	Mr José Manuel Pureza speaks on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I wish to welcome and acknowledge the work done by the Movement + Health for the Hospital de Lorvão, which gave rise to this petition. This Movement has developed a very important mobilization work from the rigorous study of the various dimensions that this problem has. The Movement was able to add the medical and clinical dimension, surely, the social dimension, the economic dimension, the territorial dimension, articulating competences and knowledge. I myself had the opportunity, at the invitation of the Movement, to participate in an entire day's journey in Penacova just about the destiny to give this former unit of psychiatry. Indeed, wasting this capital of democratic civic mobilization and technical and professional knowledge would be a strategic error. We are faced with an equipment that is returned and has a huge value, either as a space available, or as a unit with a culture of involvement of the local community capable of fighting stigmas and generating a very positive relationship. It is important for the country to know this historical experience of involvement of the local community with that old hospital unit, in a very difficult climate, but made in a fruitful way and with great merit. To waste this capital would certainly be a serious strategic error. And all this would be a strategic mistake because about 90 % of people over 65 years of age in 2016 — these are the last numbers I have available — had no effective access to continuous quality care. These studies are necessary, some 15 000 beds in the integrated continuous care network and palliative care network. This shortage has two perverse effects: the first is a median of very high waiting times and the second is the financial responsibility of families, i.e., those who can pay have the right to continuous care and those who cannot pay end up not having, indeed, access to continuous quality care. It is for all this that the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, affirming its recognition for the merit of the work carried out by the Movement + Health for the Hospital of Lorvão, recommends to the Government, through a draft resolution, the integration of the Psychiatric Hospital of Lorvão into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, thus increasing the number of beds of the National Health Service existing in the various types of the network. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u340	For an intervention, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Greens, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that was at the origin of this agenda, especially those who today accompany our work, a greeting that we want to extend to the Movement + Health for the Hospital of Lorvão, which promoted and dynamized this same petition. As a first note, I wanted to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns of the petitioners and their purposes, which is why we have, in fact, presented a legislative initiative, precisely in the sense desired by the petitioners. In fact, in view of the need for, on the one hand, to increase the supply of beds, particularly in the SNS, and to use and value under-used or disabled public buildings and equipment, the implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit in the former building of the Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital appears, in this context, as an important element in responding to the needs of the population of the region. This is an answer that has long been imposed and it is sufficient, moreover, to attend the 2018 Spring Report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems to understand how the problems in access to health in the Centre region are worrying. Now, this old hospital, which was in operation for 50 years, having closed in 2012, could be easily re-adapted. This is an equipment located in the parish of Lorvão, Pacacova municipality, and whose services have been disabled since then. With the facilities returned and in degradation, it is entirely appropriate to perform their recovery, placing it at the service of health and the community. Moreover, these facilities are affected by the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra, which does not have valences in the area of continued care and which is discussed with lack of space and difficulties in transferring patients to rear health services. In addition to all this, the reuse of the old hospital in the area of health would certainly dynamize this parish, which in 2012 was deprived of equipment that annually brought many people to that place, and could also, directly or indirectly, contribute to job creation and encourage the economic activity of the locality. Finally, and bearing in mind the growing need for beds in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, it would be a crime not to make efforts for the profitability of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, which is returned and in degradation. The Greens therefore propose that the Government initiate, in the short term, the procedures necessary for the implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão and its respective integration into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u342	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, first of all, the more than 7,000 petitioners who brought us this topic so relevant on the question of access to continuing care in the Coimbra region. The CDS fully endorses the concern about access to or lack of continuous care not only in the Coimbra region but at national level. I fear that it is widely denounced because, in fact, as I said, unfortunately, it is not only in the Coimbra region, it is throughout the country that we watch intolerable waiting times to access this kind of care and promises not fulfilled that « now it is that it is! 'and that the response will be strengthened, particularly in residential terms, for people who represent, as the CDS has said, a growing group in this country. We have said and have written that in Portugal we will increasingly have people with chronic illness, with progressive disabilities, who cannot be minors in the health system and who have to have a follow-up response, either with a view to rehabilitation, or in the case of end-of-life, in terms of palliative care. We regret that in recent times of socialist governance supported by the united Left, accessibility has not improved anything. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] And, yes, we must think that, indeed, for these Portuguese, this government, in health and social support, did not serve either. However, it is not only an issue of access, it is also a matter of debts that paralyze continuing care institutions and which, even, endanger the quality of care for these people. And yes, the CDS will continue to say that, for us, these are not Portuguese second in the health system and require planned responses... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Mr President, I have heard the CFP, so now it will certainly let me speak. I said that, for these people, planned, duly consistent answers are required. It is not just a matter of considering as a resource a building that exists, it is, above all, a question of considering adequately credible and qualified human resources responses. The CDS, in this regard, certainly puts the concern with users first, but believes that it is the government that should make the considerations about planning, the most appropriate place and the resources it should be endowed with, because, I insist, we do not have the view for these people that it is just a question of building and now it is this. I want to say with this that we have no ideological dogmatic concern to say that it has to be the social or private public sector to respond to the user, because, yes, it is the answer to that user that must be the priority. If the government, who should do this study, understand that it is the Psychiatric Hospital of Lorvão the best answer to this region...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u344	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u345	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if the Government understands that the best response to this region is the Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, which I insist is defective in this matter, we certainly do not oppose. In the meantime, we believe that the government should play its part, stop making promises that it does not fulfill and look at people with chronic, incurable and progressive diseases as citizens of full right. That's what the CDS has been doing for many years. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u346	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the patience of the representatives of the Movement + Health for the Hospital de Lorvão who are present and by complimenting the more than 1000 signatories of this petition. I also, of course, greet the PCP and the Left Block for their initiatives. Regarding the intervention of the PCP, I wanted to leave a precision: the Psychiatric Hospital of Lorvão was closed not by the hands of the PSD, but by the determination of the National Mental Health Plan, which was published in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 49/2008.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u348	And the PSD reversed the situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u349	Like what happened in other issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u350	Why didn't you come back?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u351	...the PSD had to clean up what others did. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u352	I had turned around!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u353	As for the Left Block, I have to say that on 23 March 2012 when he asked the Government a question about the Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, he did not have the concern he expressed today. It was good if you put things back in their place! Having made these parts, I wanted to leave an invitation to those who do not know the secular monastery of Lorvão, because, in fact, this national monument of the sixth century deserves to be visited. Thus, I invite all those who do not know him to make a visit, because this national monument, despite all impotence, is in advanced state of degradation. This government has contributed a lot to this situation. In fact, although in 2008 in the National Mental Health Plan, having planned its closure, he never did anything again to rehabilitate it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u354	The PSD was three more years in the government after 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u355	... and, even today, works that were planned to revitalize the roof were canceled, so at the moment there is no visible future for the Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, which provided such good services to the region and the country. Therefore, we are in favour of the installation of a continuing care unit in that space and we understand that health is the only response to that space. We do not accompany those who think that a tourism unit can be installed there, because the Socialist Party has let it close to the one that existed in Penacova. Thank you very much and good luck for the Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u356	For the last intervention on this point, Mr Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to greet, greet and welcome the petitioners here today to attend the session. I would like, above all, to leave them a word of congratulations and congratulations for the courage and the challenge of their democratic participation, with the presentation of a petition, a document of this importance, also greeting, in this way, the movement they represent and which very rightly fight for this cause. The National Network of Integrated Continued Care was created by a Government of the Socialist Party, a measure that the Government led by Pedro Passos Coelho did everything to liquidate and end it. At the right time, fortunately, I can see today that it is a national network caressed by all the people and by the various parliamentary groups. I am glad that this is the case, because it provides essential support to the community, to the people who need it and to their families. After the effort of a Government of the Socialist Party to have created the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, it is also fair and due to note, because it is factual, that is the current government, led by Antonio Costa, who has the concern to extend this network of continued care at national level. Yes, that's true! During the current legislature, the Government promoted the extension of the number of beds affected by this response. In 2015, there were 7481 beds to run. currently, in July 2019, there are 8494 beds working, i.e. 1013 beds in a legislature. Despite this, we know and we fully understand that the needs are not yet fully filled because the search is still superior to the response capacity. On the other hand, the historical and cultural heritage of the Lorvão Monastery, in the municipality of Penacova, which is a national monument, has an enormous importance for the country and for the whole region. Therefore, also taking into account recent investments in the church, cloisters and museum, it is now important to give a decent occupation to the former psychiatric hospital of Lorvão, and it may be the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care, surely the best solution. In my view, continued care seems to be the best alternative, although there are others that are also worthy and that can be a solution. Surely we will all agree if we say that it is essential to ensure the preservation of the Lorvão Monastery, its valorization and its dissemination, as well as to guarantee broad access to all, because it is a very important national monument, that if it is affected by the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, it will surely continue to give value to what was done there in the context of mental health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u358	Mr Maurício Marques, who has been very short-savvy, wants to still use the 7 seconds he hasn't used recently and is entitled to. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u359	Mr President, only the speech of my colleague and friend Pedro Coimbra leads me to use the floor. Mr. Pedro Coimbra said that there are many beds in the country, that there is a lot in the country. It's just that, despite there's a lot in the country, there's a lot in Penacova but only on paper. There's a lot on the paper! In Penacova, we are used to having a motorway for Viseu on paper! Let's have a museum, but on paper, because the museum there doesn't even open!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u360	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u361	Mr President, I would like to say to you that it was important that in Penacova there was more than anything in the role and that, in fact, the continuing care unit was a reality in Lorvão and that the local power installed there, to which you preside over in the municipal assembly, would defend...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u362	Sir, don't make me take your word for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u363	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, I expected you to defend the continuing care unit, not a tourist use. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-02.u364	Before we finish, I will announce to the House the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, recalling that it will start at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes and not at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII — Restoration of the House of Douro as a public association and approval of its statutes. the second point is the presentation and discussion of the Report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. The third point will be presented and considered the Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Consequences and Political Responsibilities of Military Material Stealing in Tanks. of the fourth point is the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 203 / XIII / 4 : a ( GOV ) — Alter the system of land structure. The fifth point will be discussed in general by the Proposal for a Law No 196 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create a system for the collection, registration and analysis of data on science and technology. of the sixth point is the general assessment of the Bill No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements". The last point will generally be discussed in Law No 162 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Change the value added tax code(CIVA) and return electricity to list 1 - goods and services subject to reduced VAT rate. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 54 minutes.]]
