ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities can open galleries doors to the public. Before we begin the agenda, which consists of a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, Secretary Pedro Alves will do his best to read the dossier. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I begin by saying that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1187 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1188 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 163 / 2006 of 8 August in order to make effective the compliance and supervision of the accessibility regime to buildings and establishments receiving public access, public and housing buildings, which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2082/ XIII/4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( BE) — Investment in hospital pharmacies of hospitals of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 2083 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an epidemiological and environmental study to assess the effects of industrial activities in the village of Paio Pires, in the municipality of Seixal, as well as the environmental impacts that occur there, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2084 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of dramatic expression and theatre, which falls to 8. the Commission, 2085 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — by setting up an early intervention recruitment group, which falls to 8. the Commission, 2086 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, which falls to 8. the Commission, 2087 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — by setting up a group to recruit the theatre area, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 2088 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the National Dragage Company, EPE, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 2089 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national plan of action for the surveillance and control of alien invasive woodland, giving priority to protected areas, which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will initiate the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, according to which the debate begins with the questions of the Members. Let us begin with the PSD Parliamentary Group, and I now give the floor to Mr Fernando Negrão to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u4	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr Prime Minister as well as all members of his Government. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you about a very particular case, which has to do with a woman named Tatiana de Sousa. This name will probably not tell you anything, but I will briefly explain the situation to you. Tatiana de Sousa is the mother of two girls and was one of the victims of the fires of October 15, 2017. She and the two daughters were also faced with a publicity campaign organized by the government, whose name was « Portugal Chama ». The fire completely destroyed this lady's house and her two daughters and, for advertising purposes, her personal tragedy was widely exploited, Prime Minister. What happens now, a year and a half after the fire, is that Tatiana de Sousa and her two daughters continue to receive no State support and are not even recognized as victims. What about the support of these victims, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the name and I will see what is going on in particular because, with regard to the victims who were subject to compensation, the Ombudsman has made sure that all cases follow its proceedings and are properly dispatched and paid. With regard to reconstruction processes, the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ) has made the point of the situation on a case-by-case basis and the forecast that the President of the CCDR recently gave me is that in June, the reconstruction of the last houses will be completed. As for the specific case, I'll see what's going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u7	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to leave you a note on this case. Between October 27, 2017 and January 5, this year, this woman and her daughters lived in a house with no water and no light and, at the moment, live in the home of friends who housed them. Tomorrow, April 5, Tatiana de Sousa will make hunger strike to try to denounce her situation. A year and a half after giving a face to a campaign organized by the Government, Prime Minister, this family received zero. You haven't received anything at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u9	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u10	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to address another issue that also has to do with how this government is governing the country. As we all know, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) annually presents a report on economic prospects for Member States, called Economic Survey, in which there is a chapter on justice reform and corruption. This report was presented in February, whose rapporteur was Prof. Álvaro Santos Pereira, a high-ranking OECD framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u11	A quadrant! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u12	Yesterday, at the request of the PSD, Álvaro Santos Pereira was in 1. the Commission is answering questions from the honourable Members, because questions of great sensitivity have been raised about the intervention of its Government in preparing this report. Alvaro Santos Pereira said the following, and I quote: "At least there was some inconvenience. Both the Portuguese delegation in the OECD and later a member of the Government revealed some concerns about the report, in particular, their intention to remove..." — I repeat, « to remove» — «...the word ‘corruption’ of the report, because they said that the problem of corruption in Portugal is not the most serious one. Do not keep on seeking. ” And he added: “Nothing in this report is extremely controversial, what we couldn’t accept was that, just because a government says it doesn’t like the word ‘ corruption, ’ that word wouldn’t appear. It doesn't make the slightest sense to pretend that it's all right and not talk about corruption. These are the words of the rapporteur. Mr Prime Minister, why did the Government not accept the inclusion of the word 'corruption' in this report and, as a result, talk about it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u13	Mr President, I am going to suppress myself from intervening because, as I have been in the OECD for a long time, I know how the reports on the various countries are made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Laughter of PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] [[PSD protests.]] But you will answer Mr. Prime Minister. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u14	You just spoke Prime Minister No. 1 and now you're going to speak Prime Minister No. 2!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u15	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, as you will know, OECD reports are drawn up and sent to their governments to speak, governments make the comments they must make by their own diplomatic channels and then OECD freely defines the final version of the report. The final version of the report is the one presented by the Secretary-General of the OECD to Portugal and which, of course, resulted from this dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u16	The question was not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u17	I assume you do not have the view that we dominate the technical and diplomatic autonomy of the OECD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u18	But they wanted to delete the word!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u19	...and, therefore, the OECD develops with Portugal the normal diplomatic dialogue it develops with any other country. As for the performance of Prof. Álvaro Santos Pereira in the performance of his functions in the OECD, in particular, I am free to comment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u20	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u21	Mr. President, I'm sorry to have to say what I'm going to say next,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u22	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u23	...but it was unfortunate that Mr. President had stopped repressing himself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u24	I am quite repressed, Mr. Deputies. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u25	Mr Prime Minister did not answer the question, which was in the sense of knowing why the term 'corruption' made the government so uncomfortable to have led to the protest of this term contained in the report.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u26	He didn't answer! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u27	I insisted on this question, Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u28	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u29	Mr President, Mr President, surely corruption bothers all, and also Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u30	Ah! But it doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u31	The OECD prepares the reports and therefore dialogues with the Government, dialogues with the Portuguese judicial authorities and presented the report it intended to submit. The Portuguese Government, of course, has placed the different problems in its proper measure. As for the work of the former Minister for Economics of the Government, Prof. Álvaro Santos Pereira, now in office in the OECD, I am free to comment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u32	I will not comment, I will only provide an information: the OECD reports on countries are approved by all OECD countries and not only by the Secretary-General. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u33	Mr President, let me just explain to you that what is at issue is not the OECD internal procedures, is the illegitimate external procedure of this government,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u34	... where it says it does not want certain matters to consist of the OECD annual report. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I will continue my questions about what your way of exercising power is. There is an "elephant" in this Chamber, which we cannot escape from talking about, which has to do with appointments and family relations. Mr Prime Minister, I know that we have already entered the early phase of politics with regard to this issue, which is to see who has more cousins or less nephews in the government. This is not at all the way, Mr Prime Minister, even for the sake of respect, which, I am sure, is mutual in relation to each other. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] I see for your smile, Mr. Prime Minister, who will already think: “He, as well as has ‘glass roofs’, is already with this conversation to guard himself! » This is your reasoning, Prime Minister. But let me tell you that I don't want to go in there, because I don't think it's the best way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u35	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u36	...until Rui Rio, President of the PSD, has already said that the Portuguese have realized that the government has exceeded all limits... [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] ...and, moreover, that the government appoints not by criteria of competence, but by family ties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u38	The pattern which this government has reached is far superior to that which happened before in this respect in other governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u39	No doubt! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u40	So I ask you, Prime Minister: what is the matter with your government? Can you not appoint qualified persons to serve in your offices other than members of the government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u41	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u42	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I thank you for putting this issue, which is not an elephant, but which is very interesting and important and deserves discussion. And it deserves to be discussed because, curiously, this issue has never been raised before. [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] Perhaps in the three years when the transparency committee in this House of the Republic discussed matters relating to transparency, it discussed the issue on which it should be the degree of limitation of the rights of the family members of any political office. I am particularly interested in this clarification and I think it is a debate to be held.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u43	You're not answering! It's just going around!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u44	In other words, whether the limitation of family members should be solely on appointment positions or also on elective positions; on appointment positions prior to tendering or only on free appointment; whether they cover technical competence positions or political confidence positions; how incompatibility is to be established, whether it is in a government with respect to other government members or whether it is between government members and holders of other sovereignty bodies. [[PSD protests.]] I have seen these cases of persons who are appointed to offices and who are relatives of Members of the Assembly of the Republic. But is it only for the Members of the Assembly of the Republic of the parties that support the government or also covers relatives of Members of the Assembly of the Republic of the Parties of the opposition to the Government? Because I've also seen these cases. [[PSD protests.]] For example, should you also refer to Mr President of the Republic because I have referred to a case of a nephew of the President of the Republic who was also head of the office of a member of this government? [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u45	Does it also refer to holders of autarchic organs? This is because I have already mentioned, for example, the case of an old mayor of the House. Should there be limitations on current or previous positions, and what is the relevant period of earlier? [[PSD protests.]] What is the degree of kinship and familiarity that must be prohibited? Where is the border located? Where is it defined in the Code of Administrative Procedure? Is he a discretionary? Are they only direct relatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u46	It's just going around! Don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u47	I would like to know, and I think that it was very important for us to be able to resolve this debate calmly. This issue is important enough and I regret that it has emerged in this setting, because it seems to be associated with an electoral process that is in sight... [[PSD laughter.]] ... and, even worse, associated with a series of falsehoods that I have seen spread with much ease, in which perhaps the most picturesque is Mrs. Minister of the Sea being the daughter of Dr. António Vitorino, or Pedro Marques being familiar with Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, who even knows of Margarida Marques — I haven't seen that correction yet! — or the wife of Pedro Marques being Chief of Staff, who is not, nor was, Chief of Staff of any member of the Government. [[PSD protests.]] And I have already seen on a television the case of an illustrious Professor of Law of the University of Coimbra — that this House of the Republic has recently elected, by a majority greater than two-thirds, for the Constitutional Court — to be presented as the daughter of an old PS Member, when it is known that the father was never a representative of the Socialist Party and is not even a PS Member, nor is she, indeed, Counsellor, a Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u48	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u49	Therefore, Mr President, I think that this debate would be very interesting. I do not know what the transparency committee has been doing about this, but I would very much like it to have a clear, uniform criterion — I am no longer saying to the previous governments, because they are already going there! — but for the current government and for future governments. I think we'd all be winning with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u50	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u51	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I were to be a spectator of this debate after listening, I would ask why Mr Prime Minister has fled to answer the question I put to him. Mr. Prime Minister has escaped the question! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, on this question which obviously concerns all Portuguese, has diverged on ethical standards and has not given a single answer, and that is what the Portuguese are waiting for. The Portuguese are waiting for a reply from them to justify the extent to which the appointments linked to family relations within the government and high positions of the State have reached. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you again the question: what happens in your Government, which cannot appoint qualified persons to serve without being family members of the government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u52	That's enough! You still don't get it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u53	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u54	Mr President, the one who has escaped is the one who has sparked this debate. It is that the debate began by being raised in relation to the members of the government; then, when they were duly clarified...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u55	Clear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u56	... that there was no change in family relations since the origin of this government and therefore the subject was not present, and having not been questioned either political or personal quality, nor the merit of any of the members of the government, then they went on to say: "No, this does not have to do with the government! What matters, then, are the offices! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” All right, let's talk about the offices. in the middle of a dozen cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u57	It's not one or two, it's a dozen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u58	... where, indeed, there are family relationships I have seen a multitude of cases that are false or that have no family relationship. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, because this is a serious issue, it is a relevant issue that should not be treated with chicana, I think we should have a clearly defined criterion for this government, for any regional government, for any municipality and for the next governments. There must be a common rule and I therefore think it is normal for this House's transparency committee to be defined. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u59	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u60	Mr Prime Minister, there are dozens, dozens of cases that have no explanation for these appointments, except that the government is operating in a closed circuit, i.e. between the members of the Government and its relatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u61	Liar! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u62	This is what's happening, Prime Minister! And that is why Mr. Prime Minister has to have an answer to give to the Portuguese, who are outraged at what is happening! I have tried to address this issue — and I think I have achieved it — with the possible dignity not to mention names and not to get into political chicana. Mr. Prime Minister, I made all this effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u63	What effort? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u64	What I ask and demand is an answer to the questions that are asked every day on the street! Mr Prime Minister, who talks so much about the importance of Portugal's external credibility, which tells me that your Government is already a case study negative in the international press, including the Spanish press, the Italian press and even the press of the United States of America? [[PS protests.]] This is very bad, Prime Minister! What do you have to say about that? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u65	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already told you, I am the first interested in this matter being discussed, if you would clarify... [[PSD laughter.]] ...and if you define a criterion, because this issue is new, it has never been raised in the past, it has never been raised for three years by the transparency committee...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u68	...and emerges at this moment. contrary to what he said, this closed government vision is false! of the 62 members of the Government, 37 are PS militants, 25 are independent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u69	They're married!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u70	... of the 62 members of the Government, 17 had governmental experience, 45 had never held any office in the Government. Even with regard to previous political activity, up to the level of functions of councillor and president of the municipal assembly, 26 had experience and 36 had never held any political office in the government, as president of the municipal council, as president of the chamber or even as councillor. Therefore, if this is not an open government and in which civil society participates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u71	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u72	...I'd like to know what an open government is, in which civil society participates. Finally, Mr President, I repeat what I have already said: I have not appointed anyone for family reasons, I have not, until today, pointed out a single case in which the person appointed has been called in question and where there is even the suspicion that he has been appointed on the basis of any family relationship! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u73	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u74	And in the only case in which, by violating an ethical norm, which is not legal, a member of the government appointed a family member either his or her family member or himself submitted his or her resignation. the importance — and with this I conclude, Mr President — of defining the criterion. It is, Mr President, that if the criterion were, as I saw a colleague from your bench yesterday proposing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u75	Mr. Prime Minister has to finish. He's been running out of time he had many minutes ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u76	... that of the Code of Administrative Procedure, neither that Member of the Government nor its deputy were in a position of incompatibility or even suspicion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u77	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the PSD spent 9 minutes, but did not talk about economic growth, did not talk about employment, did not talk about public accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u79	Nothing! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u80	The PSD devotes itself to case policy, to the foam of the days, and does so for two reasons: firstly, so as not to talk about the success of this government—but, on that, I will speak more forward—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u81	I'd better be quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u82	... and, secondly, not to mention the PSD electoral programme, which is being forged by the economic adviser of Dr. Rui Rio, who was publicly presented yesterday with the high patronage of the President of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are four measures submitted by the PSD Economic Adviser that deserve public debate. The PSD makes this speech on case policy in order not to discuss its electoral programme politically.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u83	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u84	First, the PSD wants the families that today do not pay IRS because they are below the threshold of existence, to pay a minimum collection of IRS. PSD is against the fall of the tips for public higher education, you think it's wrong. The PSD found it wrong to measure the reduction of 40 to 35 hours of work in the Public Administration. [[PSD protests.]] Moreover, Mr Prime Minister: the PSD thinks this programme is wrong to support the resolution of the tariff in the social passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u85	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u86	Says the PSD economic advisor, who is the soul of the PSD electoral program, that this measure is not a cause of the PSD. With this electoral programme, the PSD tells what is coming and, as it does not want to debate it publicly, has been, in recent weeks, on the policy of cases and on the foam of days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're talking about the country and the Portuguese, Prime Minister. The INE ( National Institute of Statistics) figures on the 2018 budget implementation show that the country is on its way and that the Portuguese are better. The deficit was 0, 5 % — a historical deficit, a deficit achieved without dropping an electoral compromise; a deficit achieved without dropping an electoral promise; a deficit achieved without raising taxes, which did not increase so that the government could reach the target of 0, 5 %; a deficit achieved on account of the rise in tax and tax revenue. IRS revenues (tax on income of natural persons) have risen, although the rates of IRS have fallen for all families. IRS revenue rises and more than 320 000 jobs have been created. And because the average wage has risen year after year, the VAT revenue has risen again in 2018 —, helping this deficit target, but the VAT rates remain unchanged or have even been reduced, as is the case with restoration. VAT revenue rises because economic activity grows year after year. The contribution revenue from social security has risen again. In 2017, rose 6, 3 % and, in 2018, rose 7, 6 %, but the contribution rates remain unchanged. But why does the tax revenue go up? Because there are more than 320 000 jobs and because the average wage has risen. It's the dynamic of the labour market talking louder! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This deficit of 0, 5 % was achieved without cuts in current expenditure, without cuts in staff expenditure, which, on the contrary, increased in 2018, as a result of measures to value the work in the Public Administration, as well as increased expenditure on social benefits, as a result of the measures of the social policy of solidarity of this Government. But what fell in expenditure was charges on public debt interest, and this decline is because the government was able to regain the country's reputation level on the international scene and with foreign investors. And it has been the fall in public debt charges of billions of euros that have enabled the government to increase public investment. Public investment grows year after year. It grew 25 % in 2017, grew 12 % in 2018. This means, Mr. Prime Minister, that in 2019 about EUR 700 million will grow again, not only investment in the financial sector, public investment in the General Deposit Box, but also public investment in the non-financial sector. Public investment in the non-financial sector is focused on education, health and also transport. The former government cut EUR 1 billion in the National Health Service and this government restored this cut. For just over three years, the current government has invested 1300 million euros in the National Health Service, which today has more than 3000 doctors and more than 4000 nurses. It was also this investment that allowed the National Health Service to carry out more than 600 000 consultations in the previous legislation at the end of 2018, as was also possible to the National Health Service at the end of 2018, to perform more than 30 000 surgeries than those performed at the end of the previous legislation. And there is also a fundamental fact, which we have learned a few days ago: it is that the investment in the National Health Service last year generated a return of EUR 5000 million to our economy, as a result of the impact it had on the fall of absenteeism and the increase in the productivity of our economy. Public investment in the transport sector has grown, especially after the dynamisation of Portugal 2020, which was at zero stake when this government took office, and also because of the preparation of the projects, which are mandatory for public works, but which were blank when this government began functions. In this regard, Prime Minister, I would like to recall that the Infrastructure Investment Programme of the former Government had a budget of EUR 6100 million and when the PS reached the Government it found that EUR 14 billion of works, which were promised to the country in this Programme, had zero funding! Many of the works that are now under way when the PSD and the CDS left the government with zero funding and the projects were empty. We can't forget that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is time to remember what if they continued in the government, the PSD and the CDS would do in the public transport sector: the PSD and the CDS wanted to privatize the entire capital of TAP, they wanted to privatize EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ), Carris, STCP ( Port Collective Transport Society ) and the Lisbon Metro. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD and CDS wanted to do what they did to the public transport sector. If the PSD and CDS were in power today, if they were government, the public transport sector was dismantled. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u87	Between 2011 and 2015, PSD and CDS invested in public transport. We remember that they drastically increased the tariff and cut into staff. Only in urban transport in Lisbon and Porto cut more than 500 workers, uninvested in infrastructure, uninvested in maintenance, invested in rolling stock and cut in supply. The period between 2011 and 2015 was certainly the blackest period in the public transport sector, because the strategy of the previous government was to prepare public enterprises for privatization, leaving higher targets, such as mobility, sustainability and the environment. In three years, this government quadrupled public investment in the transport sector, increased supply, strengthened supply, strengthened the staff framework in all public transport companies. Investment has increased in infrastructure, maintenance and rolling stock. And the Programme for the Reduction of Tariffs in Transport, as the Government has implemented together with the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto and with the 21 inter-municipal communities, from our point of view is a revolutionary measure and cannot go beyond this fortnightly debate. This is a revolutionary measure for public transport, for mobility and also for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and it is also an essential measure for increasing the income of families, especially for the most deprived. It is a measure that brought the government together with the metropolitan areas and the inter-municipal communities, a measure for the whole country. We can give here some examples of the savings that families will receive with this measure, but it should be noted that once again it did not count on the support of the PSD and the CDS, who voted against this measure in the State Budget for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. If it was a wrong, problematic measure, the PSD and the CDS indicated the incompetence of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u90	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. You have to move forward to the conclusions before the explanations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u91	But since the measure is good and has broad national support, there they say that the measure is electoralist, as if the government could not govern in the year of elections and, if so, the government would not be ruling with the State budget, but with twelve. The question I would like to ask, Prime Minister, is whether the Government will continue to strengthen the supply in public transport to respond to the increase in demand, in view of this measure of the Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr João Paulo Correia. It is very clear what the PSD strategy is these months. The PSD has given up saying whatever it is about the country, has given up saying whatever it is to improve the lives of Portuguese people and is simply trying to feed themselves in a set of cases, looking, in fact, to make a great campaign based on a lot of lies and a lot of fantasy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that Mr Fernando Negrão, in addition to saying, with great pump and circumstances, "he cannot appoint anyone who is not familiar with anyone", he was unable to point out a single case of appointment which was not for merit, rather than for family reasons. He has not been able to submit, and has not even been punished for the lies that have been said and repeated. They're even cases that they're serving to thicken a bag that's pretty empty. But then we're going to what actually the PSD does not want to discuss. The PSD, for a long time, said that this programme, which we started three years ago, would put an end to private investment thanks to the value of income and in particular to the increase in the national minimum wage. They said here that, with the increase in the national minimum wage, private investment would disappear and lose the capacity to export. The fact is that, year after year, private investment has beaten records, exports continue to grow and gain market share, and that means that the return on income policy was not only a failure, but, on the contrary, it was essential to return confidence to Portuguese society and to generate investment and economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He then said that with this trajectory we would be unable to meet the budgetary targets, we would challenge the country's international credibility, we would be drowned by the growth of debt and we would be led to a new rescue. They even announced the coming of the devil, and the truth is that the devil did not come, the ransom did not come, the debt did not shoot and, on the contrary, we have today the lowest interest rate. For many decades now, Portugal has been paying for its public debt and has seen its international credibility rebuilt in all rating agencies. This is the reality that the PSD is afraid and that it runs away from discussing. But the PSD is still more afraid to discuss what, indeed, has to do with concrete measures to improve the lives of Portuguese. in recent times, he talked a lot about tax burden and said the government has increased the tax burden. When he finally realized that the tax burden resulted not from the increase in taxes but from an increase in the wealth produced by the economy and from the increase in employment generated by the economy, the PSD then stopped talking about the subject of the tax burden. But there is also another good reason for the PSD not to speak in tax charges. When your economic leader, under the high patronage of Dr. Cavaco Silva, presented, yesterday, his economic programme for the future, what does the PSD propose in tax matters? Tax reduction or tax increase? Because what it proposes is the increase in IRS, creating a minimum collection, for those who are exempt from IRS to pay IRS when they are now free. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the PSD's fiscal justice, i.e. increasing taxes for those who earn the least, i.e. for the poorest and who are now free to pay IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u95	What did the PSD propose? Again, the increase of the VAT of the restaurant to 23 %! And what I'd like to know is what micro, small and medium-sized restoration companies think, thousands of people who have found jobs and jobs in restoring this idea that the PSD has to want to increase the restoration VAT again to 23%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're talking about fiscal, social justice. But what do you propose? Increase in the price of propines, against the reduction in the rate of social passes. That is, if the PSD were government, the propines would increase and social passes would rise again. This is what the PSD doesn't want to discuss. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] And there is still one more aspect, Mr. Member : the PSD is now only kind to the Public Administration. [[PS laughter.]] So dear, so kind, so loving that yesterday, generously, they wanted to offer public service workers five more hours of work with the replacement of the 40 hours of work as a general time in the Public Administration. This is what the PSD proposed yesterday, under the auspices of Dr. Cavaco, with the proposal presented by its economic manager. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is why we must remain serene, that we must remain firm in the continuity of the policy that we started in November 2015, on the basis of our electoral programme, based on the joint positions signed with the PCP, with the Left Block and with the Greens Ecological Party, with a view to a change in this country, which allowed to return income, recover economic growth, increase investment, increase exports, have the right accounts with the lowest deficit in our democracy and that ultimately the debt has stopped growing and falling. And it will continue to fall, because we are not content with debt at 121% and we will continue, disciplined and determinedly, to reduce it to free future generations and generations present from the great burdens of our public debt. It is this policy of responsibility that we have to do. And we have to do it without stopping investing where it is necessary to invest. The PSD today also has a great love for the National Health Service,... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] ... but it should not be forgotten that the National Health Service was created with the vote against the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The PSD governments have wanted to revoke the creation of the National Health Service, have made a basic law to dilute it, and that is why they resist approving the bill that we have here presented to have a health-based law that enshrines the National Health Service as a universal public service and tends to be free of charge, because that is what the Constitution requires it to be the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also continue to invest, as we have done, to improve the quality of teaching, with curriculum flexibility, with the strengthening of the autonomy of schools, with the freeness of school textbooks, with the strengthening of the number of assistants in each school, with the association of teachers who were to be linked. This is what we must continue to do in order to continue to improve the quality of education and continue to reduce early school dropout, as we have already been able to decrease throughout this legislation. We must also continue to invest in public transport, because investment in public transport is not only the reduction of tariff, it is to acquire 14 more compositions for the Lisbon metro, 18 more compositions for the Port metro, 22 more compositions for the CP, 10 more ships for the Transtejo, the extension of the Lisbon metro network, the extension of the Port metro network,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the development of the World mobility system, the development of the 2020 railway. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what we have to do! That's what we're going to do! That is what, with all determination, we will do for the success of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u96	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u97	Mr. President, Prime Minister, a study was released this week on the National Health Service that has some data that deserve our reflection, I believe, and that are particularly important at a time when we are making decisions on the Health Bases Act and the National Health Service ( SNS ). There is a data that seems to me to be rude and that needs to be carefully analyzed. This data shows that there are fewer people who miss consultations, for example because of moderate rates, that is, there are fewer people who for financial reasons stop resorting to the SNS, which means that there was an important return on income and that people took advantage of this fact so as not to miss what is essential — access to the SNS. And it even shows that access to SNS has a very positive effect on the health of the population and also, for example, on the decrease of absenteeism to work, because more health care allows there to be not so many medical lows, which also increases productivity. SNS is good for the economy, we already know it. However, the study says that, even though the number of people who go to the consultations has increased, even knowing that the moderate rates have decreased, there were nearly 1 million health care activities—between consultations, emergency visits, diagnostic examinations—which were not performed because of the moderate rates. In other words, moderate rates continue to be a concrete obstacle to access to health care that we know is good and necessary. The question I ask you is whether you do not think this is the time to end moderate rates that do not moderate anything, but that are simply an obstacle to access to health care, in particular ending the moderate rates for acts prescribed by doctors. There is no sense in a family doctor to order a diagnostic examination or to refer to a specialty consultation and the person to get there and have to pay the moderate rate. It's not moderation, it's obstacle! Are we gonna finish that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u98	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u99	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, in fact, throughout this legislature, there have already been 589 000 consultations in primary health care and more 180 000 hospital consultations than in the previous legislation. This is a huge leap, thanks to the investments that have been made, especially with more human resources. We have 9000 more professionals in the National Health Service, which has been absolutely fundamental. The priority we have set, as you know, is to make a huge effort to recover everything that had been cut off in the previous legislature. We have already managed to recover EUR 1300 million from the cuts that had been made and that were restored today as productive capacity in the National Health Service. Well, I know that the right never likes that the results of production are reliably relished, because these are the ones that actually measure whether or not we are providing better care to the Portuguese. We are well aware that the issue of access is relevant and what was envisaged in the current Government Programme is fulfilled: the reduction of 25% in moderate rates. I believe that it is a good debate to start now, in view of the next Parliament, with regard to the margin we have, in order to evolve in this area. Clearly—and I think we agree—the effort still needs to be made. After we have responded to what had been cut, we have to make the investment that is about to be made and that now it is necessary to recover. So we have to balance this effort and I believe that at the moment the greatest effort we still have to make is to extend the ability to invest, because there is a lot of investment that is still necessary and that we have to take to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u100	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u101	Mr. Prime Minister, he said, he repeated, and it is true, that the right does not like the National Health Service, who voted against its creation and who has made a law of bases that withdraws resources every day to deliver to the private health business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u103	But in order to change the state of affairs, it is not enough to say that we want to do better, serious commitments are required. We are debating here in Parliament a law of health bases and the Left Block has the conviction that it is possible to create a law of bases that protects and saves the National Health Service, thus responding to the challenge and legacy that left us with Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo. But for this to be done and for that to be the way of universality and to be public—as Mr Prime Minister repeated in his first speech—there are choices that must be made and that must be clear. The Left Block here is about to make a health-based law without the right, which we know we don't like the SNS, but if we meet these conditions. And what are they? End the moderate rates that are obstructed instead of moderation, end the PPPs (public-private partnerships) that serve only for private hospitals to seek human resources from public hospitals and ensure that recourse to private hospitals is done only when there is no public supply capacity and not in a competitive system that has been degrading the SNS. Have the Government and the Socialist Party that will and we will be able to make the way to save the SNS, but any other path that maintains a predation in which 4 € in every 10 € of the health budget is destined for private hospitals, will always be a path that will define the National Health Service. Mr. Prime Minister, as you know, in the study I mentioned recently, users also said — and well — that SNS professionals make the difference and that it is in them that they trust. The question I ask you, because it is one of the issues that is now under discussion, is whether the government will meet the expectations of respect for the professionals who do the SNS and defuse the career of nurses, in order to count their time of service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u104	Has the PSD forgotten about the nurses yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u105	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u106	Mrs Catarina Martins, on the law of bases, as you know, the process has been in progress. We know the points of convergence and I believe that the government has recently sent its bank a draft on the basis of the recent contacts we have maintained on this subject. I think it is very important that there is a health-based law, which must have the broadest possible consensus, but we also must not be depressed by the lack of support from parties who have never supported the National Health Service. In fact, if they did it now would be a great historical victory of the SNS, but finally, the National Health Service has passed well without the support of these parties over several decades. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] It's not worth insulting me, because they won't get anything with the insult. As you know, it only insults those who have no reason at all, so it's not worth it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The hope we have is that we will move forward in this parliamentary work. One of the great democratic merits of this legislature was to have ended with the myth that there is only one kind of majority possible. We have demonstrated, fortunately, 45 years after 25 April, that all the majority are possible. In fact, the current majority has proved very well their capabilities to ensure stability, good governance of the country and convergence. Regarding the issue of nurses, we have been in a negotiating process, and today the unions announced the suspension of the strike. I think we're on the right track so we can come to an understanding. As I have often said, this government has even been accused of being too much a friend of the Public Administration and of ruling only for the Public Administration. It is a criticism, in my opinion, that is unfair and that is part of an identity mark on the right, which systematically wants to divide the Portuguese and put them against each other, in a logic of division: those of the private against those of the public, the residents of the metropolitan areas against the residents outside the metropolitan areas, the patients against the doctors, the doctors against the nurses. In fact, we must try to mobilize all people, because there will not be a good National Health Service without their professionals being motivated. As you know, these negotiating processes, in relation to different careers, need to be harmonized with each other and depending on the capacity we have to combine the commitment we have with the Portuguese, to continue to improve their income and the quality of our public services, to continue to strengthen investment, and to keep on having accurate accounts. It is in the whole and in the harmonization of these different objectives that we negotiate. I hope that we can reach a good port, too, in relation to this career. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u107	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u108	Mr Prime Minister, speaking in certain accounts and of our need for investment, the State budget provided EUR 400 million for the New Bank. We now know that the New Bank will need EUR 1129 million. The question I want to ask you is whether the government will review the goals of the deficit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u109	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u110	Mrs. Deputy, no. Not only will we not review the target of the deficit, as I anticipate your next question and tell you that we will not cut into investment, so that we do not have to review the target of the deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u111	Mrs Catarina Martins, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u112	Mr. Prime Minister, the review of the 2018 deficit target means that we started the year 2019 with a more favourable starting point, let's say, 500 million euros. The problem is whether this money will be 'food' by the New Bank's hole or whether, on the contrary, we will have the capacity to have more investment. That is why, if the goal of the deficit for 2019 is not reviewed, we learn that, in fact, what was good with the growth of the economy, which allowed us to review downward the target of the 2018 deficit, instead of going to investment in public services that serve everyone, will be captured again by the financial system. Therefore, what I ask is whether, by 2019, it guarantees an amendment, a review of the deficit target that can make the investment, which today is possible thanks to the fact that the deficit target for 2018 has been below forecast, is all executed in essential public services. Because we can be here talking about the basics of health law and the National Health Service — and still well — but these need investment. We are proud of the measure of transport passes, but they need investment, just as schools and the whole country need investment. So what we want to know is where the money will come from to the ever-growing hole of the New Bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u114	Mrs Deputies, we have already had the opportunity to explain this in great detail, even with the presence of the Minister for Finance in his parliamentary committee. The fact is that, thanks to the dynamics of the economy last year, we have actually achieved a better result than we had anticipated. As you also know, thanks to the international environment of the economy, the pressure on the Portuguese economy this year is different and therefore the revisions — which are indeed public — of the growth forecasts for this year, on the contrary, require greater caution than those of last year. The fact that we arrived further last year means, as it had happened in 2017 compared to 2018, but also from 2018 to 2019, that it will be necessary to make a smaller effort to meet the goals. This is the best safeguard we can have that public investment levels will continue to increase this year, as they increased in 2017, in 2018, to meet what is foreseen in the State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u115	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u116	Mr Prime Minister, what you are telling us is that, however well the economy is producing, however good these results, then never remain in the investment of the public services that serve the whole population. What you just explained is that you're going to pay for the New Bank's hole with last year's strike, when we need this investment, of 500 million euros in the National Health Service, in transport, in public school. In fact, the New Bank is costing almost three times as much as it was planned, which leads us to say that the idea that keeping the New Bank under public control would be ruinous for public accounts was not true, because ruinous for public accounts, and for the essential investment in public services, is being this mechanism of sale to Lone Star, in which the State continues to pay all the damage. But, Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you two more questions very quickly. The first is about the Fridão dam, whose three-year deadline to assess the energy targets ends on 18 April. The Minister has already said that that dam is not necessary, that has a minor impact, that the contract is ruinous and that the environmental risk is great. I ask you if you are going to stop the construction of Fridão dam. The second question, very briefly, refers to the issue of Soares da Costa and its workers, who have been without wages for three years, because of a PER (Special Plan of Revitalization). The administration refuses, even, to attend the meetings that the Government marks with the workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u117	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u118	In conclusion, Mr President. As I was saying, and with this I conclude, the administration refuses to attend the meetings that the Government marks with the workers and, in the meantime, is alienating the company's heritage. This means that these workers have not only been paid for nearly three years without pay, as they do not have access to the Salary Guarantee Fund and they see the company's assets being delapied, so their guarantees that, one day, they are being paid what they owe, are falling apart. The question is this: how can there continue to be a PER which is, in our view, clearly an ambush? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u119	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u120	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all: a lower deficit, does not mean more strike, means a lower need for funding, but it is not a strike, we did not have a surplus. We did not have EUR 500 million left before, we need to finance ourselves in less than EUR 500 million. This is a very important difference. We need less debt, but we don't have any more money to invest. The strengthening of the investment that has been made has been done sustainably, according to the responsible policy that we have defined, to restore income, to restore working conditions in the Public Administration, to restore pensioners' rights, to extend all social rights and all social benefits and to strengthen investment in schools, in the National Health Service,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u121	...in the railway, in all public transport. And it is this investment that we have to gradually continue to make. This year we are launching the construction of five new hospitals, we will conclude the creation of the 100 USF (family health units) and we have 70 health centers already completed, or in the process of completion. Therefore, this investment has been growing and we will meet the objective of the investment. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u122	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u123	I will now finish, Mr President. For Soares da Costa, the PER is conducted on its own site by the judicial authorities. We have followed the process and have maintained a very regular contact with both the representative structures of the workers, at the union level, either at the level of the Committee of Workers, the commitment was made that a credit that Soares of the Costa has on an autarchic entity, of very relevant value, is allocated directly to the payment of the wages in debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u124	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u125	...and that's what we're going to carry on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u126	You have the floor to ask questions from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will put aside the questions of the socialist family and look at the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u128	Here comes the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u129	The final data of 2018, now revealed— at last! — they are absolutely unequivocal: their government is responsible for the highest tax burden ever, 35, 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u130	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u131	The State has never taken up so much of the taxpayers, it has never taken so much advantage of the efforts of people and businesses. [[PS protests and CDS-PP counter-protests.]] Moreover, the day of tax release, which in 2017 was June 11, in 2018, grew five more days and passed to June 16. This means that the Portuguese have worked five more days, exclusively to hand over to the tax. We are practically with half the entire year of work to meet the needs of the tax. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] What is worked is collected and taken from people and businesses for taxes. We have heard you say recently that you will not lower taxes. We're going to do that, but I want to ask you if you're going to raise taxes and what you're going to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u132	That's the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u133	To answer, you have the floor, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u134	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, the tax burden actually rose in these three years: from 34, 4 % to 35, 5 %. And this increase was due to what? the fact that we have increased taxes or the fact that the economy has produced more jobs and has thus generated more revenue? [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The answer is very clear: the increase in revenue is mainly due to the increase in taxes, because we do not raise them, but rather to the increase in family income, the increase in the number of jobs created and the growth in the economy. When VAT revenue (added value tax) is increased it is not because we have increased any VAT rate—the only change we have made to VAT, as you know, was to lower the rate of VAT of restoration—the revenue increases because, fortunately, families have more income today, consumption increases and, increasing consumption, VAT revenue increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u135	But it increases more than consumption!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u136	There is a very significant increase in the amount of social security contributions. Why? Because there are more than 350 000 new jobs and because, fortunately, the wage mass has increased and, therefore, there are more contributions. No, we did not increase the TSU (unique social rate), what we increased was employment and wages and, therefore, this increase in tax burden is a virtuous increase,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u137	Ah, is it virtuous? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u138	... because what has been found is that, fortunately, incomes have grown above the product. That is why the tax burden increases, not because we increase taxes, not because we increase the incidence base, not because we increase the rates, but rather because, although we have lowered the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), even though we have greatly increased the exemption on IRC (tax on income of the public), so that companies can invest, despite we have reduced VAT, fortunately, the economy grows, there is more employment and there are more wages. This is what you have allowed to increase your revenue, Madam Member. I would even say that it is a virtuous recipe and not the vicious recipe that existed in the time of the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u139	Mrs Assunción Cristas continues, in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u140	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would even like to believe in your words, but they simply do not correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u141	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u142	You know why? It is one thing to say that, at all, tax revenue has increased, because of the economy, and it would even be very true; another thing to say that tax revenue has increased above the growth of the economy, above the creation of wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u144	So today, the Portuguese work for five more days to meet the needs of the tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u145	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u146	It's true that the tax burden has increased. It is true that fiscal pressure has increased. Mr. Prime Minister, if not so, I ask you: why is it that your Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, in October 2016, referring to the 2017 Budget, said « for the year... » — 2017 — «... there is a reduction in the tax burden and that is the most important macroeconomic objective. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u147	Mário Centeno!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u148	Mr Prime Minister, how does this claim justify? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u149	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u150	Mrs. Deputy, I'll give you two numbers. First issue: revenues for social security rose by 7 % in January alone, far above the growth of the economy. Fruit of what? the growth of employment and wage growth. When you say the Portuguese have to work another five days, I say no. I can even tell you this: the 350 000 workers who are working today, and who were previously unemployed or inactive, do not work for five days, work for another 91 million days! That is what we are having in our economy, precisely 91 million more days working! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This corresponds to people who, being unemployed, have moved on to work. That is what, fortunately, has increased the revenue. As for the honourable Member, the fight against unemployment has never been a priority... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u151	...it is not a priority, because its priority is the taxation of the highest incomes, it is indifferent to this result of economic policy. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] But there is one thing I assure you: each of these 350 000 people, who has a job today and who was previously unemployed, prefers to pay for social security — I guarantee you! — to have a job, to have hope in your future, to have income to support your family, to educate your children, rather than to be unemployed and not to be paying social security contributions. Ask them whether they prefer not to pay the contribution to social security or to have employment. I assure you that you want to have a job, want to work, want to realize and want to support your family. This is the result and this explains the increase in the tax burden, Mrs Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u152	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u153	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I conclude several things. First conclusion: it finally admits that there was an increase in the tax burden. Although you say it's virtuous, I say again that it's good to realize that we're talking about a relationship and a percentage, which means that yes, today, the whole country pays more taxes, has more tax burden...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u154	More of the same! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u155	...of what I had before and, yes, you have to work more to pay those taxes. The second thing we have concluded is that Mr. Prime Minister does not say whether or not he will increase taxes and, therefore, we find out that this hypothesis is in his mind. The third thing I wanted to tell you, very clearly, Mr. Prime Minister, is that, yes, my concern was to reduce unemployment... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] ...and clean up the socialist bankruptcy your predecessor left in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u156	With your collaboration! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u157	And that, yes, led to a deep recession and a high level of unemployment. So, as far as this is concerned, I think we're talking. But, Prime Minister, let's talk about economic slowdown. 15 days ago, I was wondering if you were going to see the growth down and you didn't answer me. Meanwhile, there is already news that the government is preparing to review growth downwards. I would therefore like to hear news about the government's measures to counter this slowdown, but on that I hear nothing. So I am going to ask you directly to have an opportunity to clarify us: is the Prime Minister considering adopting measures to stimulate economic growth? Would you, for example, download IRC to 17%? Would you be able to reduce autonomous taxes on companies? You know why, Prime Minister? Because it's the companies that create such a job. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u159	Mr President, Madam Member, I remind you that the first three years in which the country grows above the European average are three years of governance of this Government : 2017, 2018 and 2019. There is no forecast for this year, even the most pessimistic, that does not keep us growing above the European average. And we grow thanks to investment and exports. This investment, in particular private investment, has been decisively supported. And when I ask you about measures, I tell you that the recent reprogramming has allowed more than EUR 5000 million to be allocated to support investment in the modernisation of business fabric. Yes, we're supporting companies,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ... but we support companies that invest in creating jobs and modernising themselves and not companies that want to lower taxes simply to distribute profits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u160	Mrs Assunción Cristas continues, in the use of the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u161	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact you are still very happy with very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u162	Yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u163	We have 13 countries in the euro area growing more than Portugal — 13 countries growing more than Portugal! — and only 5 increase less. If Mr. Prime Minister prefers to look at this and conclude that he is doing everything right and everything within his reach, I am sorry, but that is the portrait of his government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u164	Step forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u165	As is the portrait of your Government, we will continue to have the lowest investment ever and the Community funds in a 10 percentage point implementation below the previous table in the same period. You think this is good? Oh, my God! Well, I think this is bad! It is very little, it is beyond the country's needs, reveals lack of ambition, reveals lack of trait and reveals lack of confidence in the private sector, which, yes, creates wealth for the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u166	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u167	...and that, yes, creates jobs. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to return to this issue to tell you something very clearly: you do not commit yourself to an increase in taxes. For I want to tell you clearly that, on our side, we think that the way to stimulate the economy and create the right jobs is precisely by lowering taxes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u168	Did it work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u169	...is precisely eliminating obstacles, is precisely letting companies grow and flourish, as happens in many places. Ireland, which is a champion of economic growth, has an IRC of 12, 5 % ; we have an IRC of 21 %, but I can assure you that with the CDS it will be 17 %. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u170	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u171	Mr. Prime Minister, we want to lower taxes and you may want to increase taxes. This is very clear because, for the Socialist Party, the state is always in front of people, and it is well understood why. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you again this question because I must always give you the opportunity to amend your hand: will you either not comply with your word and remove the additional ISP (charge on oil and energy products)? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u172	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u173	Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u174	Mr. Prime Minister, after the « Valha-My God! » I still have to give you the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u175	"Dear God! » must have been from the CDS bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u176	You heard here a « Dear God! », but I don't know where. You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u177	Mr. President, it wasn't from the government, because the government is secular, and I'm not sure. Mrs Assumption Cristas, the only party that I saw to propose tax increases was the PSD, which proposed the increase of the VAT of restoration to 23 % again the creation of a minimum collection for all citizens who are exempt from IRS to pay IRS. It is the only party I know that has proposed an increase in taxes. for us, the Portuguese pay less EUR 1000 million per year of IRS, pay less EUR 600 million per year of VAT, pay less EUR 200 million per year of IRC. Surely, Mrs. Deputy will not be the same person who voted the huge increase in taxes when she was Minister or, then, also solved the thing by SMS, as the New Bank decided. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u178	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Portuguese pay in all of the plus EUR 1000 million of ISP and you missed your word when you promised a neutrality that actually didn't happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u181	It therefore withdrew to households and businesses more than EUR 1000 million, overall in ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u182	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u183	And about that, we're talking! By now, Prime Minister, the enormous increase in taxes of Victor Gaspar has been dethroned by the maximum tax burden of Mário Centeno. I'm sorry, but that flag has fallen, it's over! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, let me ask you a question about drought. We're in April and the country's dry. What measures has the Government already approved to deal with this situation? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[You'll pray!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u184	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the great qualities of democracy is that we can all have our priorities and each other's alternatives. Their concern about mobility is the ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u186	You gave your word!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u187	My concern with the ISP and the word that was given was resolved on the day when we first made the agreement for the creation of the old and old oil and the demand for the whole transport system that had never been implemented. Now, in terms of mobility, my priority is indeed not to reduce the ISP, my priority is to reduce the cost of everyone's access to public transport, and therefore our great concern was to reduce the cost of public transport throughout the country in the two metropolitan areas and in the 21 inter-municipal communities. This, yes, is our priority and we are very proud to have executed it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u188	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u189	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, because my priority is for all people and the whole country. And still today I heard a lady in Futurália say: « Inside, where I live, at the foot of the Guard, I have no public transport. Do not keep on seeking. ” But what do you have to tell me about the drought, Prime Minister? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u190	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u191	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, at the moment, there is a total storage of less than 40 % and the measures of contingency plans in relation to the drought situation are being taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u192	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u193	Mr President, Prime Minister, and measures for farmers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u194	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u195	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the necessary measures will be taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u196	Mrs. Deputy, continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u197	Mr President, Prime Minister, I suggest that you look at the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2012 and that you inspire yourself, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u198	What a clown!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u199	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u200	There was no question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u201	You may comment on the comment made by the honourable Member, if you understand that, of course. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Who is in the use of the word is Mr. Prime Minister and can respond as you wish. [[Pause.]] Mr. Prime Minister informed the Bureau that he is not using the word to comment on the suggestion of Mrs. Christian Assumption. You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u202	Mr President, Prime Minister, I assume that our debate ends here. I had two or three more questions to ask, but if you don't even want to answer the dry matter, you won't be interested in responding to the rest. [[CDS-PP protests.]] however, Mr. Prime Minister, I leave the questions to you in the case of, then, still want to use another time. With regard to health, we continue very badly, Mr. Prime Minister : another resignation, in the case, at Braga Hospital, to widen all the previous ones; the criticisms of the Order of Nurses of lack of dialogue; the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians continue to wait for the fulfillment of promises, in fact now, I would like to know when it is going to open the contest for their hiring; the Independent Medical Union complains of lack of response and threat with strike; we continue to have 700,000 Portuguese without a family doctor and, for example, there were problems in that health center that Mr. Prime Minister was inaugurate, because there were more people and fewer doctors. Mr. Prime Minister, his promises are repeatedly broken here too, as the ISP's promise of fiscal neutrality fails.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u203	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. One last question, Prime Minister : I would like to know whether, at the doors of a Brexit that no one knows what it will be like, Portugal guarantees all the conditions for Portuguese in the United Kingdom, in particular that, in time, they will have consular services, from the outset, to do something as basic as passport. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u205	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] [[Precinct!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u206	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has one second, plus compensation time, and will have the same capacity as the honourable Members. Members had to use more time, especially Mrs Cristian Assumption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u207	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I had nothing to say to your comment, besides thanking the suggestion. We will certainly be inspired, because there are always good ideas everywhere, even in a Council of Ministers resolution drafted by you Ex.a. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u208	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u209	For Brexit, all contingency measures have been adopted. Our priority is that an agreement can be concluded in good time, but measures are being taken, both in relation to consular services and in order to ensure, under conditions of reciprocity, the rights of British citizens in Portugal and Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom. Regarding the National Health Service, we continued the recovery of the state of impoverishment in which the National Health Service was left at the end of the previous legislation: we have already reinvested the 1300 million euros that had been cut with its support, we have already hired more 9000 professionals regarding those who existed at the beginning of this legislation and we are well aware that, unfortunately, there is still much to do, because the state of impoverishment was so large that we must continue to do more and more and more better.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u210	It was socialist bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u211	That is why, although we have already managed to reduce the number of Portuguese without a family doctor from 14 % to 7%,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u212	They've done very little!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u213	...we have to keep working to reach our goal, which is to guarantee all Portuguese your family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u214	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u215	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the contest will be open to all those who want to compete, so that we can ensure, as we are committed, that all Portuguese will have access to their family doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u216	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u217	Do you ask for the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u218	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u219	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u220	Mr President, there was a novelty introduced by you, at the end of the legislature, in the conduct of the proceedings, which was to understand that Mr. Prime Minister speaks when, if and how well he wishes before the Assembly of the Republic, while he has time. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether we are facing a new interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Republic for the future, and we will be dependent on the greater or lesser sense of humor, of greater or lesser will, of the greater or lesser ammo of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, or whether you will begin to preside equally for all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u221	Mr President, in the light of the penultimate speech of Mrs Cristas, Mr Prime Minister said that this was not a question, and that was the answer you gave. As a result, the debate continued, as usual. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u222	What a shame! It's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u223	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u224	Mr President, Prime Minister, the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) released the 2018 budget deficit estimate of 0, 5 % of GDP, which means a reduction of around EUR 1000 million in relation to what was estimated when the Budget was approved. Once again, the government has gone beyond what it has estimated, to the detriment of the response to national problems. The government assumed the fact as a façade, neglecting what it meant to do so. It meant a reduction in planned investment, and as necessary, in areas such as health, education, social equipment, transport, agriculture, forests, so necessary to hire professionals and counting all the time of service for career progression and valorization, be it teachers, nurses, doctors and other health professionals, justice, security forces and services or military. And it is not said that this is a criticism of rigour in public accounts. The problem is not a strict one, it is a political one. And this is a wrong option in the face of the many problems in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u226	The reduction of the deficit was not the result of the increase in taxes, but essentially the limitation of investment. With regard to taxes, which serves the most blatant manipulations of the PSD and CDS, which have made the greatest tax increase of all time, we well know how much it would weigh on the lives of the Portuguese if the tax rules applied were those imposed by their previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u228	There were more than EUR 1000 million on the backs of Portuguese working or living in their small business. For example, yesterday's statement by Cavaco Silva, when he diabolized the reduction of the VAT of restoration, blaming her for the ills of the National Health Service. It takes a lot of rancor to get back to the load with such an important issue. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] What bothers them is not to admit that it was with the contribution of the CFP that, in fact, there was a reduction in taxes for those who work, with more tax justice and, not the government's resistance to the consideration of our proposals for taxation on large profits, high value heritage and high income, there could be greater tax justice. That is the way to go! It is that the problem in the area of taxes is not of volume to know who pays them, particularly when GDP increases and employment increases. It is the problem of fiscal justice that is not solved, because the big capital is far from paying what is fair to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u229	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u230	Mr Prime Minister, will the investment continue to be sacrificed to meet criteria imposed by the European Union or will the country move forward with the essential public investment for the development and improvement of public services and the living conditions of our people? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u231	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u232	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it was not the government that went beyond, in demand for a lower deficit, it was fortunately the economy that went better than we had planned and which, therefore, allowed us to achieve a better result. The best demonstration of this is that this result was achieved without failing any of the commitments we made with the Portuguese, any of the commitments we made with any of the parliamentary partners, particularly with the CFP, and having carried out everything we had agreed on the State Budget for 2018. We did everything we were committed to doing, but fortunately, the economy went better than our expectations and, therefore, the result was better. And it went better thanks to the policy reversal we started in November 2015. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Therefore, today the right might well be furious, so furious that even the former President of the Republic comes out of the very phrase to which the former Presidents of the Republic usually dedicate themselves, not even hesitant to argue with the Government no longer but with the current President of the Republic, which happened to him only to express the anger that the right has with respect to the success of this government solution. The best thing we can do, to remain as angry as they deserve, is to continue to quietly implement what we have proposed to do. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is, step by step, to return to Portuguese income; step by step, to restore the quality of public services; step by step, to increase public investment; step by step, to increase fiscal justice; step by step, to increase social contributions; step by step, to fight inequalities. This is the path that we must pursue, this is the path that we will pursue, keeping the right accounts, because that is how we responsibly prove to the country that we can trust all of us, so that we all continue to achieve good results in the concrete improvement of their day-to-day lives. in this sense, the benefit that began to be given to thousands of families this week represents the biggest revolution that has ever happened in Portugal in the last 45 years in terms of public transport, and it was only possible because this majority was able to approve this measure, and it was able to approve it because we had the economic and budgetary conditions to do so. And this is where we should continue, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u233	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u234	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, today by the voice of the CDS-PP, we heard here again the demagogic language on the devaluation of the measure of company passes. They would come again to play the role of the fox who, in the fable, did not reach the grapes, he said, going away: « They are green, they don't lend». Now, they do not lend to PSD and CDS because they serve the people who use transport. This is a necessary measure, which has long been defended by the CFP and which should have been taken a long time ago. Finally, it has been achieved, and well, with our decisive contribution! A measure whose scope cannot be denied by those who look seriously at it and whose results, at the end of a few days, are already patent. The question now arises: what measures does the Government intend to take, in the short and medium term, to ensure its application throughout the national territory and to put more means of transport in circulation in order to respond to the increase in demand already known? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u235	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u236	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in these three years, we have already invested four times more in the public transport system than the previous government throughout the legislature. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Only the 10 ships we are acquiring for Transtejo have a value greater than all that the previous government has invested in in four years. And this investment replacement is made not only in the new compositions that are being commissioned or in the expansion of the network, but also in the replacement of repair capacity, signaling system and safety conditions. The fact that, this week, the Lisbon Metropolitan managed to recirculate at a commercial speed of 60 km/h made it possible to increase the Lisbon Metropolitan capacity by 5 %. The fact that today we no longer have many stopped ships, the Soflusa or the Transtejo, ensures better transport conditions. This is an effort that must be and is being ensured throughout the country. contrary to what the right has repeated, repeated and repeated, this measure is not exclusive to the cities of Lisbon and Porto, it is not even exclusive to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. All 21 inter-municipal communities presented tariff reduction measures. Thus, on 15 of them, these measures have already entered into force on 1 April; in one of them, this reduction measure will enter into force on 15 April; and in the last five, the reduction measures will enter into force on 1 May. This is not a measure for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto; this is a measure for the whole country. And it is for the whole country that we are also investing in, because the 22 compositions that we are acquiring for the CP ( Trains of Portugal) are to serve regional trains. The investment we are making in electrifying the Mining Line, the West Line, the High Beira Line, the Lower Beira Line is not to serve the metropolitan areas, it is, yes, to serve the country as a whole. And that is what we have to keep on doing. The significance of this measure is extraordinary if we think it took four years for workers who earn the national minimum wage to see their income increased by €100 and now, in some cases, only in a month, they will recover, with this measure, more than this amount, with the reduction of the price of the social pass. The President of the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal gave the following example: a couple who, residing in Setúbal, come to Lisbon daily with a saving of €3,000 per year. Now, €3,000 per year, Mr Deputy, for example, means the payment of three years of tips in higher education. This, of course, if the PSD does not govern and does not fulfill the promise it made yesterday, to increase the cost of the tips, because then it will no longer be possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the effort that this measure means and the improvement it represents in the quality of life of all Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u237	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u238	Mr President, Prime Minister, on a proposal from the CFP, was included in the State budget the extension of the National Vaccination Programme to three new vaccines: against meningitis, against rotavirus infection and against HPV (human papilloma virus) in boys. The majority of pediatricians and family doctors recommend these vaccines to babies, right in the first few months of life. The problem is that these vaccines, in particular the first two, have a cost of more than 600 €. We know that many families make the greatest sacrifices to vaccinate their children, but many fail, which introduces unacceptable inequality among children. The question we ask you is simple: when does the government realize what is in the Budget and the children born this year can be vaccinated? I also wanted to ask you about family allowances. On a proposal from the CFP, the State budget has decided to increase the allowance for both children up to 3 years of age and for pregnant women through prenatal allowance in amounts that are very significant. From what we know, there are payments that are being made, but we are surprised that you haven't left your door yet. What's going on, after all, Prime Minister? Are the increases being paid to all children or not? And when will the portal be published? Allow me, Mr President, to place a fundamental concern on Mr Prime Minister in 10 seconds. They are increasingly those Portuguese who address us, whether on the street or writing, expressing their concern regarding the delay in the allocation of pensions and reforms. Couples who resorted to the unemployment fund but who lost the allowance due to the time limit, required their pension, their retirement, but still failed to obtain it. Imagine, Mr Prime Minister — you will certainly imagine — the drama of these people who make these dramatic calls to the Assembly of the Republic and, in particular, to the government! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u239	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u240	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, telegraphically, in order to try to meet the time available to me, firstly, for delays in the processing of pensions, we have already had the opportunity to speak here and the deadline which has been taken by me and the Minister of Labour is until June, that is, until June, everything will be answered in relation to delays. Secondly, for family allowances, since March they are being paid, with retroactive effects to January, and will continue to be paid. It's all normalized, without any problems. Finally, the question of vaccines, before it is a financial issue, is a technical issue, and the working group of the Technical Commission for Vaccination, which is the competent body in the Directorate-General for Health for the Management of the National Vaccination Programme, is assessing the introduction of this set of vaccines. And we expect the technical assessment to be completed so that we can make a decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u241	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u242	Mr President, Prime Minister, with all honesty, does not admire that the right, either via PSD, either via CDS, or even via Cavaco Silva, is very upset with some very positive measures that have been taken, particularly those already mentioned in this debate, such as the cheapest single pass, with significant environmental and social impacts, or as the reduction in the value of propines, or as the fall in VAT of the restoration which has resulted in the creation of more employment, measures for which, moreover, the Greens are very proud to have contributed. But it does not wonder why the PS and the CDS have never truly ruled for people, but, yes, to serve great economic interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u243	It's PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u244	What did I say?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u245	He said PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u246	I meant PSD, of course! It's PSD and CDS! In fact, PSD and CDS have always contributed to a huge increase in taxes for people, but they have always proposed a reduction in IRC for large-income economic groups. And that is, moreover, what they still keep as a proposal, as Mrs Cristian Assumption mentioned here well. But the Greens, Prime Minister, would also like to talk about the morality of the government. We need to talk about this, because the government is tired of appealing to the citizens to clean up the forest, so that we can prevent forest fires. however, it was made public that the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and das Forestas), a public institute, was fined by GNR due to lack of cleaning of Leiria forest. Therefore, Prime Minister, « well prays Friar Thomas... »! In fact, it is necessary for the State to do what is required of citizens! in this sense, I ask you: should the State or not give the example, Mr Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u247	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u248	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, fortunately, this matter concerning Leiria is over. The car, which was lifted up, and well, because the law is the same for all, had to do with not properly cleaning, but with the removal of the materials from the burned areas. As you know, the areas burned in Pinhal de Leiria were very extensive, so there were delays, and that was the object of activation. at this moment, fortunately, this situation is overcome and the ICNF is running, at cruise speed, its entire plan of removals and cleaning. I draw attention to the fact that more than 10 years ago, in particular in 2006, the primary network was designed, which provided for the opening of 11 000 km linear. of these 11 000 km linear, for 10 years, were opened 1100 km; only in the last two years, were opened 2500 km; and we will arrive at the end of this year with 4000 km open linear. That is, we are doing, in these four years, 40% of what has not been done in the preceding 10 years. That is the effort we must take to ensure that we will have a more resilient forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u249	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u250	Mr President, Prime Minister, therefore, Prime Minister, but the effort is to set the example, is that the State bodies also do what is required of the citizens. So I want to tell you that the Greens do not have this complacency with the inertia of certain state bodies. And I remember that Pinhal de Leiria burned at more than 85 % in 2017. Therefore, it is good for the State to move and set an example in relation to what it requires, and well, to the citizens. On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to say the following: the water that comes from Spain to the river Tejo is not enough. We're going through a drought again. The Tejo ecosystems are called into question, taking into account this lack of water. The daily ecological flows are not being respected. However, what we have heard from the Government, in particular the Ministry of the Environment, is systematically the same : it is that the limits of the Albufeira Convention are being met. This conclusion can only be withdrawn from here: it is urgent to review the Albufeira Convention. And I would like to remind you that, moreover, this is part of the joint position signed between the Socialist Party and the Green Party. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you clearly and directly when the government moves to get this review of the Albufeira Convention effective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u251	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u252	... in order to preserve our ecosystems and also the economic activities associated with them. Furthermore, as you should constantly hear, fishermen also complain a lot about this situation due to the lack of water in the river Tejo, coming from Spain. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u253	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u254	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, so important or more than the quantity is the water quality. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] No, no, but we have an effective problem about the quality of water entering Portugal. So at the last two Iberian summits, this issue was on the agenda and we opened the discussion with the two governments with which we had the opportunity to have the Iberian summits. In the meantime, a government is no longer in office and what has happened to it is currently in current management, awaiting the elections that will take place on 28 April. We have an Iberian summit in July, but in view of the elections of 28 April, the results of which we cannot anticipate, I do not know whether this timetable will be maintained. In order to be able to negotiate, two parts are needed and, despite the stability that has happily existed in our country over these four years, we have had some difficulty in maintaining continuity in conversations with our neighbours. That's how it happens! As you know, political life has a greater degree of unpredictableness than we all would like and I am sure that Spain would also wish to have greater predictability and stability in the conduct of its political life. I assure you, Mrs Deputy, that once there is a new government in Spain, we will move again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u255	Until then, we're stuck!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u256	We have not stopped moving, but in this case it is like dancing: we need a partner so that we can move together in the right direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u257	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u258	Mr President, Prime Minister, with the approval of the NAP, we approved in the State budget the exceptional regime for cleaning fuel strips. this package is part of a mechanism that is not working: the credit line to finance the cleaning of forest land by municipal chambers, which are obliged to clean private land if, until March 15th, its owners have failed to meet this obligation, making themselves then withdraw from them. The money provided by the credit line would be used to finance these cleaning operations, and then returned by the municipalities to the state within 5 to 10 years. The bureaucracy of the credit line is enormous and the chambers that have applied have not received the notice of approval of the loan in due time, which has prevented some from carrying out the cleaning actions. Mr. Prime Minister, if such responsibility has been assumed by the State, it is up to him to do his part so that other human and environmental disasters can be prevented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u259	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u260	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Government has created a EUR 50 million credit line. of the 278 municipalities, only 18 presented applications. of these 18, only 11 presented eligible expenditure until December 31st and not all met the requirements to benefit from the credit line. So until now, only two municipalities, more specifically Torres Novas and Vagos, have obtained funding. I admit that the fact that many of the municipalities do not have advance knowledge of the credit line, that it is a new mechanism and that it is not yet sufficiently integrated into the dynamics of municipal life has led to this insufficient resource. I hope that this year, with greater knowledge, there will be a better use of a resource that is available. But the government did what it was competing for: it set up the line of credit and ensured that it is available to the 278 municipalities of the continent who want to resort to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u261	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u262	The goat-brave of Gerês was extinct due to the excess of predatory hunting. He recently returned to Portugal from some families who survived in Spain. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a poster entitled ‘International Days — Economic Sustainability of Ordered and Protected Spaces’.]] The Portuguese Club of Monteiros and the Safari Club International organized a few days, marked for April 13 and 14, in Arcos de Valdevez, in order to re-huddle this species that they extinguished. All in order to preserve nature, they say! To understand who these gentlemen are, ahead of time they are the same ones that organize leopard hunts in Zimbabwe and lions and rhinoceros in South Africa. This is very serious, Mr Prime Minister, because it is the manifestation of total insensitivity to the objectives of a national park, such as that of Peneda-Geres. But more serious—to be true! — is the announced presence of the Minister of the Environment in this event. Mr. Prime Minister, tell us that it is not true, tell us that the Minister of the Environment will not sponsor an event in one of the most violent sectors in our country, of people who just want to lead in everything that moves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u263	In order to reply and so we shall conclude this session, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u264	Mr President, Mr André Silva, we will be able to conclude this session in a peaceful, calm and with general happiness. No, the Minister of the Environment will neither defend nor be present in this act, nor will any other member of the Government support or be present in this act, I believe that for general satisfaction! [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-04.u265	We have thus reached the end of this fortnightly debate with the Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will warn you three times: tomorrow's plenary session begins at 9 a.m. It will start at 9 a.m. I repeat at 9 a.m. with a current debate required by the CDS-PP on the application of Community funds. in the second item on the agenda, we will generally have the joint discussion of Law Proposals Nos 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the Tax Code on the Income of Collectives, in respect of the inequalities of credit institutions and other financial institutions, and 180 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amendment of various tax codes, and of the Bill No. 1181 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the assets benefit on deferred tax assets covered by the Special Regime approved by Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August 2014. of the third point is the general discussion of the Bill No 185 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Sets out the forms of application of the safety and health system at work provided for in the Labour Code and supplementary legislation to the bodies and services of the Public Administration. in the fourth point, we will generally have the discussion of the Bill No 181 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes the regime for the settlement of disputes between judicial courts and administrative and tax courts, regulating the composition, competence, functioning and proceedings before the Court of Conflict. The fifth point refers to the general discussion of the Bill No 182 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by accepting the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. in the sixth point, we will generally have the discussion of the Bill No 184 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the overall review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound. Finally, we will have a vote at the end of the debate. We have arrived at the end of today's session. I thank everyone and wish you a good afternoon and a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 57 minutes.]]
