ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. I also congratulate the present journalist, who is in the space for the media. I give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos to take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1109 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses, which falls to 7. the Commission. He also entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr President, Parliamentary Assessment No 109 / XIII / 4a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 21 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to inter-municipal bodies in the field of education. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1971 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter today's agenda, I would like to inform the House that there is a delegation from the National Assembly of Cape Verde, headed by its President, to whom I would like a warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let us then begin the first item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of the Draft Resolution No 1548 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends urgent registration and notary measures to the Government. To present this legislative initiative, Mrs Emília Cerqueira spoke on behalf of the proposed parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the numerous announcements made by this Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Bloc and the PCP, referring to its concern about improving public services and how its policy improved the lives of the Portuguese once again, this discourse is denied by the reality with the widespread degradation of public services, to also extend to registries and notarial services. This is in fact a sector particularly underestimated by this government, with very serious effects on working conditions and the care of citizens who use their services. From then on, for example, the questions of the review of organic law, as well as of the review of the system of remuneration of the Conservatives, notaries and registrar and notaries, in the same way that we saw an attitude of inertia on the part of guardians in the area of justice to compensate for the additional charges with travel of workers. There is also a lack of privacy in the service of citizens who use the registration system and notariate. This is not to mention the need to implement work medicine in the external services or the question of undue payment of personal emoluments of marriages to conservatives and notaries who are in mobility in the central services of the IRN (Instituto des Registros e Notariado) and who continue to resolve, despite the promises of the Minister. At the end, we have the serious situation of lack of human and material resources, which leads to the failure of some services to ensure proper functioning. The list of conservatories that do not have, at this moment, conservative rises to the tens and is transversal throughout the national territory, from Melgaço to Vila Real de Santo António or the Santa Cruz das Flores. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD cannot be indifferent to this multiplicity of situations that seriously affect the lives of Portuguese and that does not take into account the dignity that professionals of this special career deserve from us. We therefore demand that the Government: ensure the conditions for the services of registers and notaries to have material and human resources to be in full operation, giving priority to the most critical situations of the lack of conservator; press urgent in the review of organic law, as well as in the review of the remuneration system of the conservators, notaries and registrants and notaries; in the conservatories subject to remodeling, as is the case with the Mafra model, a model of assistance that respects the privacy of the citizen is implemented; the payment of personal emoluments of marriages to conservators and notaries who are in mobility in the central services of the IRN is reviewed; that it ensure compensation for additional charges with movements of the workers of registers who are in forced mobility. Yes, it is time to finally solve these problems and not send the blame to the past. At the end of the Legislature, the term of office discourse no longer fits. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u5	The Bureau does not record inscriptions for the use of the word, so we ask the parliamentary groups to do so. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues relating to registration and notarial services have deserved careful follow-up by the Government and the Socialist Party and a consequent legislative approach aimed at solving structural issues, which have been dragging for decades. We welcome the PSD for bringing this issue to debate and for bringing these matters to collation, but we now report that many of them are resolved or that their resolution is already under way. We have already approved on 21 December the new career status of the registers, which came to resolve a matter referred to in the draft resolution, that of the Conservative deputies, which, by means of the solution provided for in Article 48. this new status, have their situation and their integration into the career of conservative. In other words, the 96 joint Conservative workers will occupy their jobs, automatically created on the IRN staff map. It was also possible to complete the process of revising the status of careers, which approved a new model of professional structure, and now there are conditions to advance the change of its remuneration regime. The Institute of Registers and Notariado is developing a legislative initiative aimed at carrying out this review, which will point to a new wage table for career progression, which will, of course, imply the beginning of the consequent process of collective bargaining, under the General Labour Act in Public Functions. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for taking your seats as soon as possible and for also creating the conditions for you to be able to listen without too much effort. Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u8	Thank you for your attention, Mr President. With regard to the review of the Organic Law of the Institute of Registers and Notariado and of the model of operation of the services, it is estimated that by the end of the second quarter of 2019 the process is closed and its diploma published. It should be pointed out that these are processes that involve updating and modernizing statutes and models of operation with 28 years, that is, they are always complex processes, but we have not stopped doing so. Now, the right comes to urge us to review them and very well, but these same processes did not deserve any action or development during their governance. Therefore, the proposals presented in this draft resolution, today under discussion, in order to review the legislation and resolve the situation of the conservator's deputies, are, as I said, already exceeded and are extemporaneous. As regards human and material resources, it is noted that either the Institute or the Ministry of Justice have ensured the full functioning of these services and the provision of the competent public service, which has never been called into question. These material resources are also mirrored in the qualification plan and modernization of the building, which aims to improve the working conditions, facilities, equipment and conditions of service. At the same time, actions were developed to strengthen the technological response capacity of registration services, in particular with the acquisition of computer equipment, for renewal or replacement of existing equipment. with regard to human resources, it should be noted that, in spite of the constraints we have experienced since 2008 throughout the Public Administration, in terms of staff recruitment, issues have been resolved using figures of mobility, accumulation of functions or substitutions. It is referred to in the PSD resolution project that a conservative is missing in Ponte da Barca, and this question is very evident. It should be noted, however, that the Institute has always guaranteed the presence, uninterrupted, of a conservative in this service, since 1 November 2018 being the place occupied by its holder. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, justice reform continues to be one of the main challenges of the Socialist Party, taking into account the importance of this sector for the confidence of citizens and economic actors in justice and the State. As regards registers and notary, their restructuring, the development of more comfortable, more modern and simpler services, is being carried out, in order to have the exercise of the rights of citizens and increasingly empowered companies, as they are decisive in this permanent challenge of more and better justice! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u9	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Institute of Registers and notaries provides a service not only of great importance to all citizens, to all citizens and businesses, but also essential to the normal functioning of the lives of people and businesses. Without these services, provided in the area of identification, registration and notariate, the situation would be unsustainable. But these services and these workers face a number of problems that continue to be solved. It is a reality that is not from now on and right at the beginning of this Legislation, the Left Block presented a draft resolution for the urgent resumption of negotiations by public employer collective agreement for this sector, a project against which the PSD voted. But I am glad that now it resolves to join this cause. We are talking, essentially, about five problems, which are constantly reported to us by the workers of these registries and notarial services. The first problem is that there are still five diplomas to regulate external competitions for career entry, to regulate internal competitions, to adapt SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration) to the careers of conservator and registrar, of the new organic law and of the new pay system. They are obligations of the Government, contained in successive laws adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, in the budget of the State, and which continue to comply successively. Perpetuating this situation is unworthy of a credible state. The second problem concerns the lack of privacy for the care of people, in completely degraded facilities and even the violation of standards of hygiene and safety at work. Third problem: there is no work medicine in external services, for example in the Citizens' Stores. In fact, echoes and complaints about the risk of diseases that have been enhanced by the lack of cleanup of file spaces for more than 10 years have arrived. Fourth problem: computer media—and there are still – also complaints about this – completely obsolete, both in terms of hardware and software, without data storage capacity and with overloaded networks. Fifth problem: registrar and notarial workers carry values, which was previously the task of specialised companies in the field. There are no escorts, there is no training and there is total insecurity. The Block will therefore continue to give voice to the struggle of these workers for their rights, because that is fair and because the State, citizens, citizens and companies need the motivated work of these men and women. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u11	The next intervention is for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group by the voice of Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to congratulate the PSD on this initiative, which is important and which well reflects what has not been done in recent years in relation to the career of registers and notary. These issues raised by the PSD are known to all of us for many years. In this Chamber, we all know, as soon as possible, the questions of the review of organic law and the revision of the remuneration system, issues made legal in the last three State budgets and which this government has systematically failed. The lack of compensation for the additional charges with the travels of the workers of the records and notaries is also a matter that we all know, as well as the lack of privacy in the care of the citizens who resort to the system of registers and blatantly notary non-compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation. The undue payment of personal emoluments from marriages to conservatives and notaries who are in mobility in central services in the IRN is a matter which the CDS has already raised, in January, to the Minister of Justice, who said that he was unaware of what was going on, because there is not only a clear injustice here, but also a duplication of remuneration that effectively harms the public record. The need for the implementation of work medicine; the lack of human and material resources, which leads, in particular, to the fact that measures of the so dear Simplex cannot be implemented in the registers and notarial, because, even though, the measures are taken, but the computer system does not entail them; the payment for failures, which still does not exist; the transport of values, which is now done by employees, rather than being carried out by specialised companies for this purpose, is a whole role of miseries, dysfunctions and asymmetries that effectively needs to be resolved. Mrs. Susana Amador, with a calm voice, says that she has accompanied the matter and even accuses the right of nothing done. Mr Deputies, I understand that you want to relieve yourself of the responsibilities, but the PS has been in power for three and a half years and there are three State budgets that include the norm of career review stating—see well — deadlines for its fulfilment and systematically, does not comply with what it promises. That is why, Mrs Deputy, who has a level of strikes in the records and notary that he has never had in any legislature, and this has an obvious reflection. The question is that either the Left Block or the CFP — which I have not yet heard but, surely, will also be placed next to the officials of the registers and notary because it is fair and that is what they have done on a variety of occasions — support this government. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, rather than yell as much as they yell, do anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u13	What matters now is to adopt the draft resolution which I hope will be approved. And being approved, do not let it fall into a broken bag, like all the others that we have approved in this House and that then strictly give nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u14	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u15	I will finish, Mr. President. The question is to approve this initiative and to do something effectively. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u16	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will not « scream », as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva suggested,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u19	...I will speak with the serenity that is natural in a parliamentary debate, but let's say that the PSD, in this draft resolution, is right about the unsolved problems it refers to. Actually, you're right. This Government has not yet solved the problems left by the PSD/CDS Government. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Moreover, the fact that the remuneration status of the workers in the registers and notary is governed by a 2001 portal is very revealing of the responsibilities in this regard. It is because this portfolio was published by a Government of the Socialist Party, to which a PSD / CDS government succeeded, having José Manuel Durão Barroso as Prime Minister and Celeste Cardona as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u20	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u21	This government succeeded another Government of the Socialist Party, led by Eng. José Socrates, to which the PSD / CDS government, led by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho. And the current government, in fact, has not yet solved the problems that have been left. But I could have already solved them, effectively. These problems have been reported for a long time. Even in the State Budget for 2018, a rule on organic law and the status of registries and notary officials was adopted and compliance with the State Budget for 2018 would have allowed to solve this problem, which has been dragged for this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u23	The problems have been dragged, the resolution has been either very slow or stopped, in some respects, which effectively gives reason to the content of the draft resolution that is presented here. The PSD is free of responsibilities, which it also has, but there are issues that are posed and that need to be resolved. That is to say, as far as the conditions of service in the registers and notary, in which what is said is true, i.e. there is a lack of privacy, there is a lack of personnel, who has to renew their citizenship card—and all citizens have to do—he knows what agrarians are going on, he knows that, if he wants to make a marking, how many months he has to wait for it, what is unacceptable. However, problems relating to working conditions and the status of registries and notaries must also be solved. This draft resolution draws attention to problems that need to be solved. on our part, we believe that it is the duty of the government to fulfil its obligations and to do so by fulfilling what the State budget has provided and, in addition, by creating conditions for better care for citizens and of better socio-laborative conditions for the workers of the registers and notariate. That is what we hope it will be done, and that is why we believe that the issues raised in this draft resolution are indeed relevant. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u24	To close this first item on the agenda, I again give the floor to Mrs Emília Cerqueira for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : All the speeches, which I welcome—with the exception of the honourable Member Susana Amador, which I understand—have come to meet the real problems faced by the registries and notary services, as well as officials, conservators and notaries. Mrs. Susana Amador, I understand your need to whiten reality, a reality that is there, we all know, we know that it is due to the inertia of this government, that it has not solved matters in three years, despite putting it in legislation, but has been used to ads and more ads, studies and more studies, projects and more projects, programs and more programs, forgetting what is essential, which are the achievements. As compensation, he makes that speech of « the guilt of the previous», as if it were in the first months of his term of office. That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u27	We are talking about the mandate of a government in very special situations, of a government that has ruled in a very special situation and that is guilty of all the evils in the world that, in four years, it has not been able to solve, despite being under external assistance. But let's see what we have now: a beautiful communication strategy, in which everything is fine, everything is solved... and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I really have to admit that it worked, and it worked for a long time. It was a kind of curtain, dust on the population, general anesthesia, but, like the effects of anesthesia or any medicine, its effects are going on. Also in the PS anesthesia discourse begins to pass the anesthesia. After the anesthesia, what do we have? Degraded structures, a remuneration situation which, despite the state budget law, is not resolved, the right to privacy which is clearly in breach of the data protection regime and everyone is disgruntled: population and officials of the registers and notariates. This is the reality, in addition to the speeches. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u28	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move to point two of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 1935 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the memory of the three members of the Congress of the Portuguese Republic who died as a result of fighting in the Great War of 1914 - 1918. To present this initiative on behalf of your parliamentary group, Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Socialist Party has come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic the consecration of the memory of three parliamentarians who died in the Great War of 1914 - 1918. To learn : João Francisco de Sousa, captain of infantry, senator of the Republic elected in 1915 by the circle of Ponta Delgada, killed in southern Angola, in the combat of Monaco on 19 August 1915 ; José Afonso Palla, Major of Artillery, hero of 5 October 1910, Member of the National Constituent Assembly in 1911 and re-elected Member in 1915 by Lisbon, died on 8 September 1915 as a result of injuries received in the combat of Monaco ; and José Botelho de Carvalho Araújo, Prime Minister of the Portuguese Navy, Member of the National Constituent Assembly and re-elected representative of the Congress of the Republic in 1915, who, as commander of the hunting of the Portuguese Republic Augusto de Castilho, sacrificed life in combat with a German submarine to protect the steam São Miguel, on 14 October 1918. Mr President, it is at the most glorious and often the most tragic times in its history that people seek inspiration for, even in difficulty, finding the wisdom necessary to evolve in the path of social, economic and human progress. For some of these moments it is essential to look and reflect on them with the same attention, because if the first people go to seek inspiration, in the second they should be able to identify the signs that are often repeated and have already led them to horror. Thus, we must look at the Great War and, at the end of the evocations of its centenary, with a critical and attentive spirit, we are able to identify some signs that are repeated in Europe, 100 years ago. After the Great War, social and economic problems have worsened, totalitarian political movements have spread across Europe as oil stains and democracy has become seen as something of the past and unable to respond to the problems of modernity. The end could not have been different from what it was and, 20 years later, the world was again at war. Having learned the lessons after the Second War, those countries that affirmed democracy and built the European Community have achieved prosperity and ensured peace. Today, democratic political power, often subject to the supremacy of the economy and finance and the victim of internal weaknesses, sometimes reveals difficulty in finding solutions to many of the people's problems. Like then, they grow today in the western nationalist, xenophobic, racist forces, who promise each community the security that democracies seem to have difficulty in guaranteeing. As a condition of peace and progress, it is our duty to combat these mirages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u30	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u31	I shall certainly finish, Mr. President. in honor of these three militant parliamentarians, we recall the past, denounce the lie and the false illusions of totalitarianisms and let ourselves be inspired by the self-denial, fearless nature and spirit of sacrifice of João Francisco Sousa, José Afonso Palla and José Botelho de Carvalho Araújo. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u32	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the PS with the aim of consecrating the memory of three congressmen of the Republic killed in the Great War is included in the affirmation of the collective memory of the country, within the framework of the greatest events of Portuguese contemporary history. Like the evocation of other figures who have gone through the parliamentary struggles of this House, since the triumph of liberalism, through the new Republican regime and after the April Revolution, the Assembly of the Republic appears to be the ideal place to perpetuate the memory of these three congressmen of the Republic and also as soldiers fell on the brink of war. I refer to the three figures mentioned here: Captain João Francisco de Sousa and Major José Afonso Palla, this 5 October hero, who died on 5 October, and Commander Carvalho Araújo who, at the command of the Augusto de Castilho mines, lost his life in combat against the Germans. Unfortunately, these military congressmen were not the only Portuguese who fell during World War I and whose epilogue was evoked last year. It was undoubtedly an unfair war, provoked by the main imperialist European powers that disputed the world hegemony of the time: Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, France and England. Despite ensuring the possession of the colonies in Africa, the consequences of the war on Portugal were catastrophic, as they were for mankind. At the global level, more than 10 million deaths, economic and social devastation, and also Portugal did not escape these dramatic consequences, with many thousands of deaths. Even in Portugal, the instability of the republican governments has worsened with inflation, with economic and social difficulties, as I said, and with military blows that facilitated the advent of dictatorships, such as that of Sidonian Fathers, as it began on May 28, 1926, as later salazarism. In any case, all these events do not diminish the recognition and recall of the memory of the military congressmen mentioned, who sacrificed their lives in the war, in defense of the country. thus, the Left Block agrees with the memory of the three congressists mentioned here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u34	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention by Mrs Conceição Ruão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Among the various forms of World War I evoking, in the framework of the Assembly of the Republic, the evoking of three men who performed a double mission before their country: that of parliamentarians and that of combatants in the Great War of 1914 - 1918. The common references we find in the three men we want to remember are yesterday, today and all the time for those who take on working in favour of the common good, based on their convictions: sense of mission and spirit of service. Based on these values, José Palla, João Francisco de Sousa and José Botelho Carvalho Araújo, the second one even abdicated his parliamentary immunity to fight, and José Botelho — I have a special reference for the district of Porto — was appointed by the circle of Penafiel, at the time in 1914. Origins of different points in the country and being one even originating in the English Guiana, were all members of the Democratic Party, and it was not by chance that they engaged in military confrontations, being parliamentarians, both in northern Angola and Mozambique. In 1914, there were already fighting on the borders of the former colonies in Africa, so the Democratic Party, in power in Portugal and to which all these elements belonged, showed interest in taking a belligerent part in the conflict. In September of that year, the first troops were sent to Africa, where they were expected a series of defeats in front of the Germans, on the southern border of Angola with the South West African German and on the western border with East Africa German. This historic environment explains the motivation for three parliamentarians to have abandoned parliamentary life and to take up fighting in southern Angola against the Germans. Among the great motivations to participate in the War by the Democratic Party and Portugal, it would be the conviction to defend the maintenance of the former Portuguese colonies, so that Portugal can claim its sovereignty at the Peace Conference that was approaching the end of the War. however, two of these men ended up losing their lives in 1915, and José Botelho, after being appointed by the circle of Penafiel, lost his life in 1918. Portugal lost about 10,000 men. These men fought for their convictions and for a life course that often moves many people through this world outside. These men, following their convictions, paid a blood price for them. These parliamentarians and combatants deserve this moment of dedication for their life and are part of those who « by valuable works have been freed from the law of death». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u36	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to praise the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, which enshrines the memory of the three members of the Congress of the Portuguese Republic killed as a result of fighting in the First World War. I say this because, reading this draft resolution, there are several elements that I would like to highlight. First, it is the celebration of the collective memory of the Portuguese people. unlike World War II, in which Portugal did not participate, Portugal participated in World War I and the numbers are impressive. More than 160 000 Portuguese were mobilized for the various military fronts: in Africa — in Mozambique and Angola — in the Atlantic and in Flanders and more than 35 000 Portuguese died or were injured. Secondly, this draft resolution also refers to the various celebrations which Parliament has made over the past four years. There were several of them, and that should be remembered. We actively participated with the Government and the Armed Forces in the convening of World War I and the participation of Portugal in the same war. in the last evocation that was made, a Member of this Assembly of the Republic, Diogo León, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, questioned us all in order to know whether we had any ascendants who fought in the First World War. You did a remarkable job...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u38	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u39	... which constituted a contribution from Parliament to the study of World War I and to several books that were later published. Finally, the draft resolution also states that Parliament is the right place to evoke and make these celebrations. In addition to being the House of Democracy, Parliament is also a museum and has, as we know, several nuclei that celebrate the history of Portugal, of parliamentaryism, of the Constitutional Monarchy, of the Republic and of the Democracy post-25 April. This draft resolution, which summarizes all these elements, now calls on Parliament, as the last honour—because we have just celebrated the 100 years since the end of World War I—which is evoked through a monument, or of what is later decided, three of our former colleagues, in this case, a Senator and two deputies — Captain João Francisco de Sousa, Major José Afonso Palla and Prime Minister José Botelho Carvalho — who died in World War I. It is our duty to do so and this draft resolution deserves our support and will have our vote in favour. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u40	The next intervention is by Mr António Filipe of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is proposed today to the Assembly of the Republic, that we can point out the memory of three congressmen of the Republic who died in World War I, is an initiative we respect. These are three parliamentarians, three illustrious figures of the first Portuguese Republic who were effectively victimized by Portugal's participation in the first World War. We therefore share the purpose of this initiative and we believe that Parliament should, in fact, point out the passage through this House of these three personalities. This is not about discussing, with this, the fairness of participation in World War I. Although Portugal had paraded on the side of the winners in 1918, it is important to point out that World War I was a defeat for all. It was a dispute between powers for the world hegemony with which no one benefited. Portugal has suffered a great defeat at various levels: it has suffered the defeat of the deaths of the Portuguese who perished in the First World War, on the various fronts of combat; it has suffered from the impreparation of this participation at all levels—in fact, the death of Carvalho Araújo, while Commander of a dreva-minas that opposed a German submarine is revealing the disproportionateness of forces in the presence. It was therefore a defeat for all. The First World War left a scourge of many million dead and sequels that would be at the base of the rise of Nazism and that were at the origin of World War II. In Portugal, they had another consequence that was the collapse of the Republic and the participation of Portugal in the First World War is inseparable from the rise, first, of the Stalinism and, later, of the military dictatorship that gave rise to fascism in 1926. The Republic has never recovered from the aftermath of World War I. I therefore stress that we are not discussing the justice or injustice of participation — this is a historical fact that history will record, with all the controversy that existed at the time and that has survived until our day — but what is being discussed here is the fact that there have been three congressmen, who have been personalities distinct from the Republic, who have fought for the implementation of the Republic in Portugal and who have unfairly perished in the First World War. It is fair, therefore, that this Parliament should mark these events and the memory of these three personalities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u42	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of sitting as soon as possible. We shall continue with the intervention of the unregistered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on this initiative and also to mention, specifically, Mr Diogo León, the historical research work he has to do. Identifying these three parliamentarians who were killed in fights resulting from the First War is not easy, it was a hard work that, I know, performed and greeted the Socialist Party for this vote. As has already been said, it is a matter of recalling the memory of three parliamentarians killed in war fighting. I think it is important that, apart from the evocation of these three, a generic reference should be made to all Portuguese who died in this war. I had the privilege of joining the presidential committee that was to celebrate the Battle of La Lys, on 9 April 2018, at the Richebourg Cemetery, with other Portuguese parliamentarians. I know that, in the same way that I, other parliamentarians have direct ascendants who participated in World War I and, in particular, in the Battle of La Lys and that, obviously, we do not want to discuss here the fairness of the War, one of the things I realized — when I read more about this war now — is that the Portuguese were very poorly prepared and we were killed, perhaps in excess of what should be desirable in such a situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u44	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u45	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would therefore once again like to welcome the Socialist Party for this worthwhile initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u46	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is right that the memory of the three military congressmen evoked here and who died during the war should be commemorated. As you know, it was an unfair war and the reasons that motivated the participation of the republican governments, I recall, were three: the preservation and defense of the Portuguese colonies in Africa; the recognition of the young Republic; and also the secular alliance that Portugal maintained with England.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u48	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u49	I will now finish, Mr President. But it remains paradigmatic that, with the conclusion of the War, the secret agreement was discovered which provided for the division of the Portuguese colonies in Africa, namely Angola and Mozambique, between England and Germany. In fact, it's the friends we have! But that certainly does not mean that we no longer support this draft resolution of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u50	To close this item on the agenda, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by praising the debate and consensus on our draft resolution, reaffirming that this is not a political debate on the Great War, but only a consecration of justice in the history of Portuguese parliamentaryism. Let us dedicate the names of three members of the Congress of the Portuguese Republic who have fulfilled their civic and military duty, resigning, as well as others, to the immunity and parliamentary functions, in order to be able to be mobilized, as have been, and as volunteers, for battlefields and war on the sea. When we talk about republican ethics, when we talk about civic rights and duties, when we recall the specificity of the military condition, we recall the high example of these three MPs and officers of the Armed Forces who knew how to subordinate individual aspirations to the country's general political condition. They were not merely decision makers or mere spectators. Supporters of the intervention and entry of Portugal into the war, wanted to share the successes and injuries of those over 100,000 Portuguese, who, as parliamentarians and politicians who were, helped to mobilize, organize and send to Africa, to Flanders and to the Atlantic. João Francisco de Sousa, Afonso Palla and Carvalho Araújo did not live to see the end of the war from 1914 to 1918. But, 100 years back, we live, descendants of the same people who elected them their representatives and cried as dead soldiers in combat. We live in this Assembly of the Republic, its heirs in these same benches, in these same rostrums, to consecrate their names and honor their sacrifices. I conclude, Mr President, by arguing that, on behalf of the collective memory of the Portuguese people, which can be all the less erased, forgotten or ungrateful, we vote for the recognition of these three citizens, who also symbolize, in a very particular way, the commitment of politicians to the fate of their people, including their exemplary names within this Assembly of the Republic. Let us vote for the supreme and perpetual recognition to whom he had the courage to make the supreme and the perpetual sacrifice, which is the sacrifice of his own life. Let's do justice! [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u52	Ended discussion of draft resolution No 1935 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ), we move on to the general debate of the Bill No 1048 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Adequate Food and Nutrition Basics Act. To present this initiative, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recognition of the human right to adequate food and nutrition is a long process to which we propose to add an essential chapter today and here. In 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights internationally enshrined food as a fundamental human right. In 1966, in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, States recognized this right. In 1999 the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights clarified that this right is achieved when access to adequate food is guaranteed or the means to obtain it. In 2004 the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) adopted the Voluntary Guidelines on the Right to Food with a set of recommendations to support countries to achieve this right progressively. Portugal has signed and/or ratified all these international agreements. Our Constitution implicitly recognizes the human right to adequate food and nutrition, through the recognition of a broad set of economic, social and cultural rights, to which it relates, given the indivisibility of human rights. However, explicit non-recognition has implications for the realization of the law, which can be operated through legislative innovations and public policies with an impact on food and nutrition security. This basic law we bring here sets out the principles of these policies, taking into account the diversity of domains that involve, such as agriculture, the environment, the food industry, consumer protection, education and, of course, health. Indeed, a 2016 study by the Directorate-General for Health concluded that « chronic diseases such as obesity and possibly others associated with it, such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases or cancer, have a distribution in the population very dependent on access to food of good nutritional quality ». Now, in 2015 - 2016, one in five of the Portuguese family aggregates was in a food insecurity situation, i.e., had economic difficulties in access to food. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this basic law will gradually lead to a revision of the legislation in force, in order to adapt it to the new challenges in the food sector, greater coordination and alignment of the existing sectoral policies and the implementation of a national system for the promotion of food and nutrition security. This will be a process for which they have to be called to participate, of course, political decision makers, food producers, the agri-food industry, consumer organizations, health technicians of the most diverse valences—with natural emphasis on nutritionists—, educators and caregivers of the most diverse nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u54	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u55	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, adopting a law to ensure adequate food and nutrition for all Portuguese and Portuguese is a structural reform, which we all call it. Finally, I will say that this is a law that realizes the recognition of a human right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u56	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u57	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. But it is also a law that caters to social and political dynamism, incorporating mechanisms of permanent participation of the most diverse social actors. We have the vision and the courage to take this essential step! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u58	The Bureau does not record any entries, so we hope that, as soon as possible, the parliamentary groups will signal their willingness to take part in this debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the right to food and to improve access for all and at any time to necessary food and to a healthy life must be ensured and respected. The right to food depends, of course, on the value of wages and reforms and it is inseparable from improving living conditions, even because there are still those who do not even have what to eat. We have defended the right to food and have put forward measures that implement it, such as national and international public policies related to sovereignty and food and nutrition security that respect the human right to food. in this framework, ensuring the right to food today is undoubtedly due to the implementation of the already approved Family Agriculture Statute, but with no visible consequences. The truth is that those who sustainably produce quality food, who preserve the environment and who give life to our lands, to the rural world, are small and medium-sized farms, is family farming. And it is this kind of agriculture that can and should be supported and developed. It is not the mega-farm and livestock explorations that produce safe and quality food. It is not the extensive continuous areas of intensive and superintensive monoculture that preserve resources and biodiversity. It is therefore not possible to defend the right to food without questioning the foundations of the common agricultural policy which, with its neoliberal guidelines, promotes competitiveness and the opening up of agricultural production to world competition, feeds the intensive production and agribusiness model, which is unsustainable and promotes the ruin of farmers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ensuring the right to food is still promoting national production. Portugal is far from self-sufficiency, importing nearly one third of its agri-food needs, and is deficient in many productions, particularly in some important cases, such as cereals and beef, where most of the consumption is imported from abroad. That is why we must not fail to denounce the idea of a new attack on cattle production, the pretext of a supposed reduction in carbon. In addition, the theory that all forms of cultivation will need to be used to feed Europe and third countries. Those who defend these ideas simply seek, by all means, to impose unsustainable production models. When we talk about the right to adequate food and nutrition, we also talk about food sovereignty and fair prices for production. We are talking about quality production that is sustainable in the medium and long term, without genetically modified organisms. We are talking about a production model that preserves rural employment and the establishment of young people in the field. We are talking about preventing climatic phenomena that call into question many crops. We also talk about the need for another model of international trade which differs from the so-called « free trade ». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u60	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO) has urged States to adopt measures to achieve the right to adequate food in the context of national food security and, at the same time, to create instruments to combat hunger and poverty. Portugal has produced legislation in accordance with international treaties, agreements and conventions, which it has ratified or subscribed to. This is the example of the publication in 2017 of the Integrated Strategy for the Promotion of Healthy Food ( EIPAS) and the newly created National Council for Food and Nutrition Safety ( CONSANP ) for the realization of the right to adequate food. But it's still a long way to go. Recent data, invoked in a communication from the Order of Nutritionists, which we received yesterday, reveal that 10, 1 % of Portuguese had difficulty in providing sufficient food to the whole family and 2, 6 % of families experienced moderate or severe food insecurity, which means that they have altered their eating habits or reduced food consumption. The communication I have just mentioned calls for the importance of legislative intervention to enable the consensual consecration of this essential human right to life and advocates that the Portuguese State should adopt the policies and actions necessary to ensure the realization of the human right to adequate food for the whole population. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has proposed a basic law which, in its view, '(...) promotes a revision of the legislation in force, in order to adapt it to the new challenges in the food sector, to greater coordination and alignment of the existing sectoral policies and to promote a national system for the promotion of food and nutrition security'. Well, come on, let's know what this really means! It is true that, by implementing the proposal in the articulation it presents, there is a clear lack of objectivity and sustainability in what it advocates. There are many imprecise and widespread statements of too broad scope, which, as such, become subject to all kinds of interpretations. On the other hand, there is evidence of a replication of existing obligations, which are already properly regulated and regulated. In 3 minutes, it is not possible for us to discuss all the questions and raise the doubts we face — and so many are! Yes, indeed, we can say that, for the sake of public health, and in view of the pursuit of this plan, the bill of the Left Block is far from satisfying, having much to improve and change. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u62	Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic recognizes the human right to adequate food, through a set of economic, social and cultural rights. The Portuguese State has designed and created a set of policy measures, developed and implemented by the various areas of governance in accordance with its competences and which meet the human right to adequate food, as set out in the Portuguese Basic Law. in one way or another, all aspects of this right are covered by policy measures that guarantee food security and national nutrition. Examples of this are the common agricultural policy ( CAP ), the social income of insertion ( CSR ), the Integrated Strategy for the Promotion of Healthy Food, the Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain, the Strategy for Combating Food Waste and, more recently, the Statute for Family Agriculture. The promotion of healthier food and the fulfilment of obligations in the international context of the human right to food have been priorities of the XXI Constitutional Government, within the framework of public health policies, in line with the guidelines of the WHO ( World Health Organization ), the European Commission, the United Nations ( United Nations ) and the FAO. in this context, the government created an interministerial working group with the aim of developing a strategy for promoting healthy food that aims to encourage adequate food consumption and the consequent improvement of the nutritional status of citizens. In line with the food and nutrition security strategy of the communities of Portuguese-speaking countries, and recognizing the need to articulate the various areas of governance, the National Council for Food and Nutrition Security was established, which aims to contribute to the realization of the human right to adequate food and to the definition of an integrated view of matters relating to food and nutrition security, ensuring convergence and coherence as well as social participation within the framework of their instruments. Thus, the Human Right to Food and Nutrition Bill proposed by the Block on the Left, despite the importance and the currentity of the subjects proposed to revise and adapt to the new challenges in the food sector, appears out of time, being redundant in the objectives and measures that the government itself has already outlined and implemented. In addition, this bill causes some confusion and overlap of legislative instruments over the same entity and its tasks, it interferes in matters of the exclusive sphere of competence of the Government, contains some in specificities. Since the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food is in force, the creation of a basic law of the human right to adequate food, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, does not come from a political or technical point of view to print a significant change to what is already foreseen in the current legislation, in full operation and with positive results. Moreover, entities whose contribution we consider to be of the greatest importance have not been heard. The proposal contains a specific chapter on the decentralization of food and nutrition security, in which a set of tasks and competences of the municipalities in matters of food and nutrition security are listed, the hearing of ANMP (National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) on the content of this diploma seems essential to us, if not mandatory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u64	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos of the Democratic Social Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD recognizes the importance of this issue, the theme of food is a very relevant subject, but cannot follow the legislative initiative under discussion. The PSD does not follow initiatives that, from the outset, limit citizens' rights and freedoms and, as in this case, pave the way for a planned economy. It is true that, with regard to very important and absolutely enshrined principles, such as the right to food, we do not have to impose proper food on all sectors of society. And the question that, of course, I ask is: what are these right foods? How are such adequate foods defined? The Left Block, in the articulate of its diploma, tells us that «the food is safe, nutritious, sufficiently and culturally accepted for an active and healthy life». And who defines that? On the other hand, the PSD cannot agree with the considerations imposed on this initiative, in particular with the one that imposes on the State, of course, to intervene in the establishment of the prices of such healthy foods. Read Article 4. paragraph 2 ( a ), which « is the responsibility of the State to ensure a stable supply of food, in particular healthy foods, at a fair and affordable price, taking into account the minimum income of the population ». There is what I was saying recently, to such an economy, the way to the planned economy. The truth is that we have fully enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the right to food, not the right to adequate food, because it has to define who it is and know who it defines. On the other hand, we do not realize how it will be incorporated into the new system, into the system proposed by the Left Block, the National Council for Food and Nutrition Security, which already exists, is already created. They count on the PSD to defend balanced, healthy food policies that seek to promote training, information campaigns, that fight and prevent obesity, that promote physical activity, but do not ask us to vote for a legislative initiative that will catalogue what are good or less good foods. We always favour, but always, the private initiative and the choice of the citizen. The truth is that the State should set its example, we agree with this, it should also promote this type of food in its school canteens, in its public services. But it is not for the State to be saying that food must be consumed to the detriment of others. You can speak in food categories, you can't say that food. Why? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u66	So go to the DGS website (Direction General de Saúde )!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u67	Because we are talking about the right to food, which, yes, must be the assumption of any state, i.e. ensuring that everyone has the right to food. It is this food that must be ensured by a noble activity, which is that of agriculture, which has this future activity, to feed our population. They always hold with us to promote healthy activities and to promote a better and better diet, they do not contain us to catalogue products. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A draft of the Left Block on the basic law of the human right to food is under discussion, and the Greens would like to say that, when we speak of the right to food, we speak of the right to have access to food in sufficient quantity, to adequate and healthy foods and, therefore, to a component of quantity and quality, necessarily. Now, we know that still today there are many people, especially in our country, who, as a result of their poverty situation — this happens to many elderly people, in their daily lives — still have to make an option between buying drugs or buying food.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u71	This is deeply worrisome. In order to ensure the right to food, there is here a component of social intervention and the guarantee of social rights which cannot be neglected. Therefore, fighting poverty is decisive, it is even a basis for guaranteeing the right to food. There are, indeed, other decisive components, including awareness of citizens, information, education, but this is the underpinning, let us say, that it has to be created to guarantee the right to food. But we cannot go into the wave of the great advertisements and jokes of the multinationals of the agri-food sector, who consider that, in order to combat hunger in the world, it is necessary to degrade our soils and our environment, particularly with genetically modified organisms, which, on the other hand, undermines the health of the population, or with a mega-intensive production to combat hunger. None of this is necessary, we know that we are not responding to the problem of hunger, we are responding to the interests of the multinationals of the agri-food sector. Moreover, FAO indicates numbers that can even be considered interesting and scary at the same time. That is, if we hit a third of the food waste worldwide, we could feed the whole population hungry in the world. This is perfectly scary! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this sense, and because the production base is indeed also important, — The Greens have - here, in the Assembly of the Republic, firmly - it is essential to defend food sovereignty, national food production, including in order to bring the production of consumption closer, with benefits to consumers, to our ecological footprint, to the environmental performance, but also to the social and economic conditions of those who produce it. As we know, they are deeply damaged, particularly small farmers and family farmers, that is, the longer or longer the food chain, the more these small producers lose, especially by enriching distributors. Finally, I would like to say that the Greens have given a deep priority to these food matters: we have put forward initiatives here in the Assembly of the Republic on the national food survey, food waste, food labelling, food advertising or supply in public canteens, among many other proposals, and we will, of course, continue to give priority to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u72	To close this item on the agenda, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank the various speeches. The diversity of implications that have been associated with this diploma has emphasized and demonstrated its importance. It is true that some steps have been taken in the right direction, particularly in the status of family agriculture, in the strategy for healthy food, but they are very short, partial and isolated steps. There must be a holistic view in this area that covers the whole chain, from production, with the implications of environmental and spatial planning, to distribution, with economic implications, and consumption, with health implications, that is, there must be a global vision. I assume that Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has not read the diploma. With all my frankness, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u74	I read in detail!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u75	He read point (a) and did not read point (b), because if he had read, he understood. It therefore invited him to read article (b) cited, in which it shows the importance of the various actors throughout this process, not only the State. He didn't read, it's too bad! It's still time to read. Secondly, I should like to say to you, Mr President, that the current formation of the National Council for Food Safety is much more statistic and governmentalized than we propose here, with the participation of various actors, industry, environmentalists and producers. It is precisely in the opposite direction of what you have just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u76	Explain who regulates prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u77	You didn't understand anything you read, I'm sorry to tell you. Our proposal can certainly be further improved and we accept that we recognize that it can indeed be improved. on our part, there is openness to accept proposals that improve the diploma, but we have the courage to take this step forward, because it will be incomprehensible to the country if we do not give it. For the country, for the FAO, for the Food Bank against Hunger, for the Order of Nutritionists, for the CNA (National Confederation of Agriculture), for the Foundation Faith and Cooperation, for the ReFood Network, for the Portuguese Federation of Agri-Food Industries, for the Interdisciplinary Centre for Social Sciences will be incomprehensible that there is no courage, for lack of understanding and ignorance, to take this step forward today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u78	We thus end the third point of our agenda. We now move on to the next point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 335 / XIII / 2. a ( Manuel Joaquim Soares Teixeira et al.) — They request the definition of just reforms and the recognition of the profession of stonework as of rapid wear together with the general appreciation of Law Projects Nos 481 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes a special scheme for access to disability and old-age pension for workers of the quarry, 520 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the special scheme for access to the disability pension and old age of workers of the stone and 894 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Stipulates that the workers of the prairie have access to a special scheme for the allocation of pensions for invalidity and old age. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to welcome, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, the petitioners and the stone workers who are attending this afternoon's debate, whose struggle over so many years has been essential for progress to be made, in particular so that the special regime of access to pensions for the disabled and old-age miners in the mine fund could be extended to the workers of the quarry and also to the workers of the mining mills. [[PCP applause.]] This is a proposal which is enshrined in the State budget, also by action and intervention of the CFP, a victory in the struggle of the workers of the rocks and a victory in the struggle, persistence and insistence of the CFP in this matter, a measure of the most elementary justice, which proves that fighting is worth it. For almost 15 years, the CFP has been fighting for the reduction in the retirement age of the workers of the rocks, and has often been, in most cases alone, presenting proposals for the establishment of a special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for these workers. It is recognized the special work penosity of workers who perform their activity in the designated open or gallery mines, not only as regards the weariness or hardness of the profession, but the working environment itself and the danger of breathing air under conditions that bring this reality closer to that in which miners work at the bottom of the mine. Many are the workers of the quarry who die prematurely, who do not reach the legal age of the reform, which cannot be ignored when we discuss solutions to respond to the specific reality of these workers. Therefore, in this last State budget, we insist on the matter and, with the struggle of the workers, we can extend and improve the system of anticipation of the retirement age. Today we want to solve problems that have not been resolved in the State budget, although the CFP has put forward proposals in this regard. The CFP has never agreed with the application of the sustainability factor—and we have even a proposal that eliminates it for all pensions—but today, with the proposal of the CFP, we have a new opportunity to eliminate the sustainability factor in pensions allocated to the workers of the quarry and miners. Today, with the proposal from the CFP, we have a new opportunity to reduce the age of access to pension for these workers: three months for every six months of work provided. A proposal of the most basic justice for those who work in a dangerous environment for their health, for those who are highly exposed to serious respiratory diseases that mean, not rarely, a shorter life. This proposal which we bring into nothing today prevents the implementation of what is planned in the State budget by tomorrow. Yesterday, the Secretary-General of the CFP questioned the Prime Minister about the necessary regulation on this matter, because there are thousands of mine workers who are entitled to reform themselves under specific conditions and who do not and cannot do so until the government does not regulate. The CFP will beat-CL so that today's proposal can be approved, but we will not fail to beat ourselves so that, quickly, the right of mine workers and mine workers to reform themselves under special conditions will emerge from the role and be realized in the lives of these workers who have waited for too long. They count on the PCP for that battle. We'll be here to lock it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u80	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, my first word is of recognition to the authors of this petition, these men of Peroselo who, in December 2016, initiated a struggle process that culminated in a very important and historic victory— Manuel Teixeira, José Manuel Silva, Augustine Martins, Arlindo Soares, Luís Silva and Vitorino Barbosa. These were the stonelayers who, at first, mobilized others, involved their families, collected signatures and they are the ones that make us have this debate today, because they made this petition. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not forget the times we have been there and the meetings we have had, the video that they brought to the Commission and that they showed the Members of this Parliament, what José Manuel said, in his eyes, in the Committee on Labour, about the stones that die before the legal age of reform and the age of 66 years and five months like the age of death certificate. We do not forget the testimonies about the dust that is installed on the lungs, on the silicosis, which does not allow to breathe, on the vibration that kills the body, on the tinnitus in the ears. Few works will be as hard and as destructive as this one of the extraction and transformation of the stone. And if the working conditions are what they are now, imagine what they were 30 or 40 years ago! Here in Parliament we echo your struggle. in the budget negotiations, which we did with the Government and the Socialist Party at first, and then in the votes, we included the recognition of the rapid wear of this profession. in the specialty, we demanded that not only the workers of extraction be covered, but also those of the transformation of the stone and the lavaries of the mines. On this subject, there were initiatives by the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party and, in the budgetary debate of the specialty, when it was certain that this would be approved, there was not one party who had the courage to oppose this measure. The law passed in Parliament has the contribution of all parties, but this is a victory, above all, for the workers of the rocks. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We congratulate you and thank you for the example of this struggle. in this process not only the workers of the pieras, but also the workers of the lavares of the mines who also made an exemplary struggle for the recognition of the rapid wear of their profession and the penosity of their work. What's missing now? Two things are missing. The first thing that is missing is that the regulation of the law is published so that workers from the prairies and lavers can really begin to have access to reform. This regulation should not exclude any worker or any function! It must include those who extract the stone, those who leave it, those who sharpen the tools, the maneuverers who lay and remove the stone, all the people who work, who are victims of dust, vibration, who have a work with penosity on the rocks or on the mines.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u82	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u83	Mr President, this concludes: the penalty for the sustainability factor must end. We have already proposed it in the Budget, it was plunged by PSD, CDS and PS. It is absurd and unfair to keep the cut of sustainability! These workers are not asking for an early retirement pension, they have the anticipation of their legal retirement age because the law gives them that right and that is the objective of the bill that the Block presents today. Let us bring justice to these workers, to these men who are here and to the thousands who represent and who await this decision from this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u84	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all will certainly recognize, work life on stone is covered with great hardness and much like the work of miners. Whether in open-air mines or in galleries, the work is invariably hard and subject to an effective risk. In fact, like miners, stoneworkers are exposed to a set of factors that constitute high dangers with enormous impacts on their health and which entail a consequent reduction in life expectancy. But in addition to hard work, these stoneworkers, many of them, indeed, in absolutely precarious work situations, are still subject to intense work rhythms, excessive and abusive hourly burdens, contributing to their physical and psychological wear and implications for their health. But more: in all cycles involving this activity, the workers of the prairie are exposed daily to noise, vibrations, explosives, collapses, dust, too much effort and risks that increase and reinforce the medium and long-term probability of the occurrence of a set of occupational diseases. The most serious is that these occupational diseases, particularly respiratory diseases, tend to occur in younger workers due to the accumulation of residues in the lungs, but also diseases related to wear in the joints, with problems of spine and with loss of hearing and vision. This is beyond the intensity of diseases, which often generate an early death of these workers. It is not surprising, therefore, that for several years now these workers and their organisations have been fighting for the anticipation of their retirement age. Although the work of the quarry is recognized by a wide range of studies as a burden and as a rapid wear profession, with characteristics similar to that developed by mine workers and, even as often leading to serious disease situations, only recently in the context of the State Budget for 2019 — and also with the contribution of the Greens — these workers have become covered by the special scheme of access to pensions for invalidity and old age of workers in the interior or underground mining. Even so, and despite the integration into the special regime of access to disability and old age pensions, which has long been claimed by these workers, the problem of penalties arising from the sustainability factor has been solved. This is a penalty, which, in our view, is of all justice to remove, being precisely in this sense that points to the bill of the Greens: to eliminate the sustainability factor applicable to this special regime. We therefore propose to remove this injustice and, at the same time, to respond to the objectives of the petition which we are also discussing and whose subscribers, on behalf of The Greens, are taking advantage of, in particular, to greet the workers of the prairie, who today are accompanying the work, who have stimulated this petition and who has motivated this agenda. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u86	We continue with the intervention of Mr Luís Vales of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss Petition No 335 / XIII / 2. the, through which more than 4100 citizens asked this House to define fair reforms and the recognition of the profession as a rapid wear. First of all, I would like, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to welcome the committed, resilient and courageous form such as the bricklayers of the Thamega and Sousa region, present in these galleries, have been beaten by this cause. In fact, these men, who work every day in exhausting conditions and at enormous cost to their health, saw their claims at the headquarters of the State Budget for 2019, at the initiative of the PSD. [[Laughs from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] The Socialist Party may well come here to defend that the government has entered this issue in the Budget, but being intellectually honest, they will know that it was a achievement, because the Government only wanted the stoneworkers to be covered, which would cover a few hundred workers in our country, that is, a clear minority in the face of the total universe of stone professionals! contrary to what the Left Block said here, it was precisely against this achievement that the PSD arose and presented a change to the State budget where it included the stonework of the primary transformation of the stone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u88	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u89	In good time it did, because it allowed thousands of professionals today to access disability and old age pensions in advance. That is, the normal retirement age was reduced in one year for every two years of work. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is never too much to look at these professionals. Since I am from the region of the Thamega and Sousa, I know closely the working conditions of these professionals and the health problems they have, especially the respiratory problems due to silicosis. This disease is highly incapacitating and generating great suffering for its patients. Penafiel and Marco de Canaveses are of the municipalities where the incidence of tuberculosis is most noticeable and, curiously, are two municipalities where this activity is very present. These workers are exposed to high levels of noise which, over the years, can lead to serious hearing problems, not to mention accidents at work which, in this profession, are much higher than those of the others. But there's more! The families of these professionals also suffer from the disability that these workers present at very early ages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u90	Is it just now that they suffer? Oh, my God! Didn't they suffer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u91	The children and women of these professionals end up being informal caregivers and, as a family, suffer from seeing their loved ones, too, suffering. This is therefore a just requirement for which this Parliament has responded. People who have started working with 12 or 13 years and who have very long-term careers deserve that the state and that we are all in solidarity with them. And so it was! Today, these men know that Parliament has heard them and that it has been worth the way of the stones that they have crawled over these years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u92	Tell me how they're going to vote on our project on Friday!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u93	Today, these men know that they will have a reform even in time to live with health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u94	How are you going to vote on our project on Friday? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u95	This was a victory of the stones, but it was also a victory of all, given the fairness of this measure. It is for a society that is more just and more supportive that the PSD fights every day. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira and PCP Members Diana Ferreira and João Oliveira.]] A welcome to these workers, some of them present here, for having allowed us, ladies and gentlemen, to exercise the policy in what it has most noble: the highest interest of the people! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u96	How are you going to vote on our project on Friday? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u97	Mr Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention. [[How are you going to vote?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u98	You need to have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u99	Oh, yes! You need to have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u100	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, please begin your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a petition signed by thousands of workers asking for the profession of stone workers to be recognized as a profession of rapid wear and tear. I would like to begin by greeting all the petitioners, especially the stone workers, and to say that the CDS recognises that this is a profession that has a special physical penosity, penosity, that which deserves recognition, which deserves special attention from the political power. And did so, in fact, also in relation to mine workers, demonstrating it in the State Budget for 2019. It is true, however, that this petition confronts the left-wing majority — the PS, the Block, the PCP, The Greens — with their own contradictions. What we are particularly curious about is whether the parties that present bills, by dragging on this same petition, and who made the proclamations we heard, have guaranteed the approval of their initiatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u102	It depends on your vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u103	...by his partner, who is the Socialist Party. In fact, according to what has been said here, they want to know whether the Government of the Socialist Party, which you support, will or will not regulate the law. Now, what we want to know is whether you are calm or just go to that pulpit to proclaim, without removing any political consequences on this matter. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u104	Is that a CDS? Oh, my God! Are you going to vote for or against? Oh, my God! Are you going to fall? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u105	You are exactly the same as you approved the State budget in which the rule that you now think is insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u106	Four State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u107	With all honesty, they are the same ones who, about the time of the teachers, were content with the forecast that the Socialist Party included in the State Budget and who now complain and say that the government is not fulfilling what it agreed with the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u108	Friday we'll see who supports who!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u109	So will the Socialist Party approve these bills from its partners? It was good for you to clarify! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Will it eliminate the sustainability factor? It was good for you to clarify! Continuation of BE and PCP protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u110	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to ask you to interrupt your intervention for a moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that the heat of the debate is the same, but if we could hear the speaker, it was not worse. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u111	I am grateful, Mr President, but these screams do not disturb me, because they demonstrate very well the restlessness of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who shout so loudly. What I wanted to know was whether the Socialist Party would allow the anticipation of the reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u112	What about the stoneworkers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u113	What we want to know is whether the Socialist Party will invoke, for example, the law-work, so that only after the elections, i.e. only in 2020, these projects can be implemented. The history of this majority is not a particularly recommended history in relation to what is left in the State Budget and then in relation to what is effectively executed in relation to workers. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u114	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. What we want to know is whether the proclamations you make in this Chamber will or will not have consequences, and this is a responsibility of the PS, the Block, the PCP and the Greens. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u116	Let's see who's going to support the government on Friday! I almost bet the CDS will support the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u117	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern about the justice of those who work is the basis of a society developed, a society cohesive, a society that preserves the rights of those who work. This is the meaning of the petition that Mr. Manuel Teixeira and other Petitioners of Peroselo present to attend this plenary session, presented to this House, a petition that we not only greet as we accompany. They are stone workers, representing a large majority of workers, especially Marco de Canaveses and Penafiel, in the district of Porto, to whom we have spoken, gathered—as other parties, certainly—and given expression to their struggle. We do not consider ourselves legitimate interpreters, we consider ourselves a party that represents part of the concerns that have been expressed in Portuguese society. They want better working conditions, protection in reform and old age, and, as far as it depends on the Socialist Party, they will have them. We are today discussing a petition which has entered this House before the solution which the Socialist Party has taken in the State Budget for this year, not only guaranteeing the special regime for access to pensions for disabled and old-age workers in the mines, but also ensuring, on a proposal for a change of the PS and other parties, in the State Budget, Mr Luís Vales, that workers who proceed to the extraction, sawing and cutting of rough stone should also be covered. Together, the majority that supports this government managed to reach a solution and the PSD contribution was to move the solutions that others presented. [[PSD protests.]] This proposal was integrated into the State budget, which the PSD and the CDS voted against, and is being completed only one month after the beginning of the year, as stated here by the Prime Minister this week in the 15-year debate. That is why we consider it to be extemporaneous at this stage to legislate on this work which is being done from the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u119	Ah! So now they don't say anything? Oh, my God! Now, are they little? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u120	The bills accompanying the petition, in our opinion, contradict the commitment made in Article 110. that of the State budget, which obtained the favourable vote of this majority, in the sense that the Government should assess the compatibility of the new scheme with specific pension access schemes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u121	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u122	Considering the specificities of special pension access schemes, the withdrawal of the sustainability factor should be assessed, with the necessary adjustments being made, so as not to create unwanted contradictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u123	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u124	It was for this purpose that the commitment was made in the State Budget, from which the Government is working, whether the PSD, or the CDS did not follow it. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs António Carlos Monteiro.]] Moreover: the special system of access to pensions for mine workers, lavaries and pier workers has underlying the wear that the exercise of the activity causes over the years. a one-year reduction in the age of access to the pension for every two years of service is granted. in this sense, we do not find it relevant to repeat the debate in the speciality of the State Budget for 2019. Instead, we must allow the Government to fulfil the commitment it has made by safeguarding the interests of these workers and their legitimate concerns, which we share and which we will, of course, respond to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u125	You have finished this point on our agenda. We went on to discuss a second petition, which is Petition No. 496 / XIII / 3. a ( EN125 User Citizenship Movement ) — for dignity and security on the national road n. 125 — Works of immediate requalification and maintenance between Olhão Nascent and Vila Real de Santo António. To begin this debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the elements of the EN125 User Citizenship Movement — Sotavento, present here, which brought us a petition for security, dignity and urgent re-qualification of the national road No 125, between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António. In fact, it is a very fair struggle, which the Block has supported since the first hour. The draft resolutions we have tabled on this subject have been approved by the Assembly of the Republic but, unfortunately, they have not yet been implemented by the Government. As the petition says very well, by the way, we have first and second citizens in the Algarve. If between Olhão and Vila do Bispo the requalification of the national road No 125 has already been completed, although with many years of delay and with various technical errors, it is not understood that between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António continues the shame of the non-requalification of the route. These requalification works have been planned since 2009 and have not yet seen the light of the day. The floor is very degraded, the traffic lights are damaged, the holes are constant and amended, the Bermas are dangerous and intransitable, which increases the insecurity and the danger of road accidents. With the introduction of tolls by the previous PSD/CDS government in 2011 and with the lack of re-qualification of the national road No 125, accidents have been enhanced, with many fatal victims and many serious injuries, and are always increasing. There are more than 10 000 accidents per year in the Algarve, most of which on national road No 125. And who are those responsible for this shame? Oh, my God! It is the PSD/CDS Government, and also the current Government has serious responsibilities in this area. In fact, requalification works have been constantly postponed, in a « push game » between the State, the concessionaire — Routes of the Algarve Litoral — and the Algarve infrastructures. The outrage of users and populations has increased, which has led the current government last year to do some emergency retraining work on that route, which is no exception to occasional remedies. The Court of Auditors refused to review the sub-concession contract made by the previous Government in order to move forward with the works. What the Court of Auditors led was a model of savings from the previous government, which was a technical fraud and financial and political fraud. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] It was a legal trick on the part of the former CDS / PSD government, which had saved 400 million, but none of it! It is that this renegotiation provided for the maintenance of the route between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António, cancelled several variants, and the state will have to pay the dealer until 2024, 929 million euros. These are the savings of the previous government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u127	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u128	I will now finish, Mr President. But the current government is not doing well in this situation either. It's a pong-pong game. The Government has taken a long time to provide the clarifications that the Court of Auditors has requested and, in fact, the seaweeds do not deserve this treatment. Certainly in a few more days' time, we'll have Mr. Minister of Planning and Infrastructure...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u129	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u130	... moving, once again, to the Algarve, to announce that the works will begin again, as you did in the past. What is required is the urgent requalification of this way and also the abolition of the tolls on the Way of the Child,... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u131	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u132	... that are two indissociable struggles, that are interconnected and that it is necessary to carry out. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u133	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the petitioners who subscribe to the petition for dignity and security on the national road No 125, works of immediate requalification and maintenance of the section between Olhão Nascente and Vila Real de Santo António. This petition, signed by 7133 petitioners, whose signature collection period took place one year ago, delivered in this House on 10 April 2018, reflects concerns related to the poor state in which the floor was located, at the same time, endangering road safety. I would also like to add that this area of the Algarve constitutes an important gateway to European tourists by land. The national road retraining work No 125 is therefore very expensive to us, not only for us, but also for all those who visit us, because what is in question is indeed the implications inherent to people's mobility, road safety and the regional economy. Therefore, the current government, in good time, resumed the works on this road, works that had been suspended by the former PSD Government / CDS-PP. in total, around EUR 85 million has already been invested in requalification on this national road, an extension of 112 km between Vila do Bispo and Olhão, ensuring the mobility and road safety conditions in half its total extension.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u135	Much better than I thought! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u136	Regarding the section Olhão Nascente — Vila Real de Santo António, problems of contract performance by the concessionary company, already mentioned here, have led to the fact that the structural works have not yet been carried out. Obviously, it has been so long and taking into account the unusual atmospheric conditions that struck the Algarve last winter, the degradation of the road, in the uninterrupted section, has accelerated much, putting at risk the normal conditions of traffic and road safety. The PS naturally welcomes the decision of the current government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u137	What decision? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u138	... to provide EUR 1 million for emergency works, in order to restore the flooring of the road in the uninterventioned section, within a length of 48 km. These works were carried out before last summer and, therefore, we can see on the ground, have contributed to the well-being of people living in this area of the Algarve region and also of those working there or who choose it to spend their holidays. This was, of course, a good decision, and it is, however, inconsequential...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u139	What decision? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u140	... the need for structural works, with a more lasting character, to be carried out either by the concessionaire's legal obligation or by means of the rescue by the State, taking into account that the national road No 125 continues to be recognized as the main road of the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u141	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the thousands of signatories of Petition No 496 / XIII / 3. the initiative of the User Citizenship Movement of EN125. The outrage of the petitioners is very fair, insofar as the works of re-qualification of the national road No 125 should have been completed in 2011 and, arrived in 2019, is not even in view of the completion of these works. PS, on the one hand, and PSD and CDS, on the other hand, engage in mutual accusations, disresponsibility of the delay in the works, but deliberately omit that the root of the problem is in the ruinous public-private partnership(PPI ) that the PS government created and the PSD/CDS government refused to revert, a ruinous public-private partnership that, according to UTAO, will cost taxpayers more than 700 million euros. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What needs to be done is to reverse the public-private partnership of the national road No 125, returning to the Infrastructures of Portugal responsibility for the completion of the works and their future maintenance. This is what the PCP has been proposing for many years and that PS, PSD and CDS have refused because they do not want to address the interests of private economic groups that hold the grant of national road No 125. In February 2018, we presented a proposal for the reversal of this partnership, but PS, PSD and CDS refused and then went to the Algarve to lament for the delays in the works. If these works are not completed, it is the fault of these three parties. The situation on the 125th national road deteriorated with the introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante, which pushed thousands and thousands of cars to that road, which had no conditions to receive them. This has led to a brutal increase in road fatality, with dramatic consequences for users of this route. National road No 125 was once again the « road of death ». We reaffirm here that it is also necessary to abolish the tolls of the Via do Infante, because only in this way will it be possible to ease traffic on the national road No 125. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solution to this problem is simple and goes by reverse the PPP of the national road No 125, providing Portugal's Infrastructure with adequate means for the early completion of the works and, of course, abolishing the tolls of the Via do Infante. If this hasn't been done yet, it's because PS, PSD and CDS didn't want it. from the PCP, we will continue our struggle to achieve these objectives and the algorithms know that they can count on us, with the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u143	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by congratulating the petitioners and saying that at least I intended to concentrate on solutions to a real problem, a road with a high level of sinequality, an important region for the country, from a tourist point of view. however, it is not possible to have a serious discussion when the approach of the government and the parties that support it goes in the direction of the answer I have heard here. It should be remembered that, for a while, there was a Socialist Party that promised to give everything to everyone. Eight sub-concessions were made, many of them without public comparators, without prior notice of the Court of Auditors, without any economic rationality, being one of them, a concession for 30 years, which solved all accessibility problems in the Faro and Algarve region.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u146	And what happened? This concession, by having « more eyes than belly», by failing to comply with the basic laws of public procurement, ended up in the circumstances in which it is today. It was at a time when the Socialist Party was irresponsible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u148	...because, soon thereafter, we went into bankruptcy and, with the country in the financial situation in which it was, it was not possible to negotiate and reverse the errors of this concession. It is clear that the Portuguese Communist Party, which does not count for the solution, can always say: "It ends with the concession! Rescue the concession! They have thus ignored the rule of law, ignore the state's commitments, even ignore what the CDS, responsibly, tried to do, which was to reduce the tolls, while the works in EN125 lasted, to compensate the population somehow. Then comes the same Socialist Party, by chance, with the same Minister of the Government of Eng. José Socrates, Pedro Marques,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u150	... promise everything to everyone and promise to solve everything. What does Mr. Minister say? « The previous government was incompetent in the renegotiations! I'll solve and renegotiate all PPPs! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u151	Campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u152	One should ask, then, how many PPPs were renegotiated and closed? What happened? Once again, between promise and reality, there are miles away. The fact is that the government has failed to renegotiate this PPP and has ended up preventing 50 km between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António — which is what is missing — from being made and rebuilt. While arguments are raised on the renegotiation of PPPs, which those who respect rights and the rule of law know and should know that it is difficult, it is clear that in order to circumvent the Court of Auditors'visa, the solution would be to negotiate emergency works, which would confer on that road security and fluidity, perhaps later making the correct account, without reaching this circumstance, which is difficult for the region and for EN125. And that was not done! Even so, the petitioners are waiting for the answer to a question you have to ask, answer that which Mrs Ana Passos did not give. It is that Mr. Minister of Planning, in addition to promising that there was a solution for a short time, said: « The Government has a solution, whether or not it has not been seen by the Court of Auditors. » Question : what was the solution that the Minister had in mind, and that the government promised, if it had not seen the Court of Auditors, what was the end result? What is that solution? About that, they don't say anything! We need to know what the solution is, what the answer is, and how we will be able to complete 50 km, because there is, in fact, only 50 km. There are solutions to that! The CDS has a solution for this, but the CDS is not in government, and that solution is the negotiation between the parties, emergency works, public interest safeguarding works, which have already been done in other regions and in other sub-concessions. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u153	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u154	Therefore, not the inertia and incompetence of the government, we would not have the population of the Algarve and EN125 systematically in the news, due to damage caused in people and goods, which is what is happening. But that is a responsibility of this government and of those who support it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u155	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, allow me to leave a personal note as rapporteur for this petition. Fortunately, this petition, whose greeting petitioners, was very involved, because we had the opportunity to conduct the hearing of petitioners outside the Assembly of the Republic, even with a lot of popular participation, in Vila Real de Santo António. This contributed to this petition having a political significance of greater importance, in which I think it is a generalized understanding. This generalized understanding tells us something that is incontroversial: that road needs works, and it needs structural works, in order to ensure that it offers the same equal opportunities, the same quality of life, the same conditions of other ways to those populations. We all agree on that, but we will certainly not agree with those who make certain commitments and then fail to honor them. In this regard, I would like to remind you that Minister Pedro Marques has made a tour of several chambers of the Algarve. on this occasion, before the elections, a schedule of the work was presented, with planning and costs. The work budgeted EUR 23 million and incorporated several things, including the Olhão variant, the links to A22 ( motorway No 22 ), finally a set of requalification works that were essential, already in a reduced version of the original package, which was established in 2009. Now, Mr. Minister promised you would honor your word. He announced in 2016, insisted in 2017 and swore in 2018, but we are in 2019, the calendar is already completely out of date and the idea has fallen to the hands of the Court of Auditors. And it is important to tell people why this idea fell, at the hands of the Court of Auditors : it is that there was a founding error,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u157	of your negotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u158	... in 2009 when a contract was submitted to the Court of Auditors other than that which had been concluded with the concessionaire,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u159	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u160	... by establishing contingent payments to the concessionaire, but by hiding them from the Court of Auditors, because it was known that he would never grant his prior visa or allow the work to be carried out in this way. So, 10 years back, we are paying the results of a first good decision, but a very bad realization of that good decision. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u161	The Government, who knows today that it had to submit the decision to the Court of Auditors, delayed this submission for two years because it had no money and exhausted public investment—and we know that the levels of public investment are today far below the time of the troika—in order to be able to do the work in 2018 and 2019 ; it did not count on the Court of Auditors to be firm in its position and absolutely reject that the rules of the rule of law were broken. That's why! I think we should all try to get together now as far as the solution is concerned. I thought you guys were. Ladies and gentlemen would introduce you today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u162	You've been promised!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u163	...because they went up to the pulpit and whoever goes up to the pulpit will surely announce important things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u164	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u165	I saw them in the pulpit running, but only fel, hate, reservations about whom he made and to whom he did not. I don't want to go in there! I mean, we have to have all the solutions on the table. If the private partner is not available to renegotiate with the State and if the State does not find a solution within the framework of the legislation, because the Court of Auditors does not guarantee the visa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u166	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u167	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, if the private partner is not available to renegotiate with the State and if the State does not find a solution within the framework of the legislation, because the Court of Auditors does not guarantee the visa, then the solution of the rescue may have to be considered, alarming the public service, but without disrespecting the people who feel in the skin, daily,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u168	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u169	...the collapse that is going on that road. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u170	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, completed the assessment of Petition No 496 / XIII / 3. the, we move on to the sixth and last item of the agenda, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 354 / XIII / 2. a ( Maria Helena Correia dos Santos Pereira et al.) — They request the celebration of a convention for the provision of health care with the Hospitals Lord of Bonfim. Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic, requesting the State to hold conventions with the Lord of Bonfim Hospital, in Vila do Conde. We congratulate the petitioners for the exercise of citizenship, but we do not follow either the object or the purpose of the petition that addresses us. The State cannot be seen as the « porquinho-méaléiro» of private business in health. We know that for many years he was seen so, we know that for many years he was used for it, but that time is over, he has to have an end! The budget of the National Health Service ( SNS) does not serve to save health entrepreneurs, it does serve to ensure health care for users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u173	however, in our view, this petition has another merit, which is that of the text being absolutely transparent, insofar as it recognizes, for example — and this deserves reflection — that were promised by the authorities and the state to a historic PSD activist, and former candidate by the PSD to the City Hall of Póvoa Varzim, who invested in this private hospital. The text of this petition acknowledges that, in this hospital, rulers were present, such as Pedro Passos Coelho and Paulo Macedo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u174	And then?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u175	... that they have promised, or at least suggested, public support to this private hospital. It's in the petition text. But the text of this petition deserves another reflection, which is that there are laws that have been made, in particular by the previous Government, precisely for this, to transfer the money from the National Health Service to private health entrepreneurs. Therefore, this text deserves some reflection, I repeat, by the Assembly of the Republic, so that, indeed, it changes itself radically, to change the current Health Bases Law, with a view to having a law of foundations that does not allow this predation of public resources for the interest of private entrepreneurs who bet on health. And if there is any doubt that the way is to strengthen the National Health Service rather than the private one, look at what is happening with private operators and with ADSE, the blackmail they are doing, an angry, immoral and unacceptable blackmail with ADSE and its beneficiaries. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u176	If there is any doubt that the State cannot stand hostage to private medicine and private business, look at blackmail, I repeat, that they are dealing with ADSE and its beneficiaries. Now, imagine if the entire National Health Service was subject to this blackmail. We do not, of course, follow this petition, but we welcome the reflection that your text allows us to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u177	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, I would like to leave two notes prior to this discussion: first of all, we discuss here a petition that has been signed by 4462 petitioners and that is under consideration in this House — stop! - more than a year and a half ago. Secondly, I would also like to say that this petition, in fact, has to do with many of those who were the vicissitudes that were at the basis of the birth, evolution and functioning of the Lord of Bonfim Hospital. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say: 'Caesar what is Caesar'! So I don't come here to tell the story of Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, John, Hugo, Hugo's friend Hugo or André's grandfather.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u179	It's about the Passos and the Paulo!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u180	Yeah, no! It's only Peter's!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u181	Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to make a historical review of the process and evolution of the Lord of Bonfim Hospital. To whom rightfully, there will be relations and family stories and friends.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u182	Are you going to tell the story of Pedro? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u183	Here, it is important to clarify the evolution of the Lord of Bonfim Hospital. Therefore, I begin by recalling that this hospital is located in the area of Vila do Conde, in an area of more than 13 ha. Its construction has been started for more than a decade and has been in operation for about five years, with an investment of EUR 100 million and at the same time would be equipped with residential, hospital and outpatient units, distributed by more than eight autonomous buildings. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Members soon realized that this equipment, perhaps, would have an exaggerated dimension, naturally induced by the Government of the Socialist Party of 2008, which at that time considered this investment of national public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u184	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u185	An investment that had, in its initial plan, over EUR 44 million in turnover, but which never exceeded the EUR 3 million, and which also pointed to the creation of more than 900 jobs, but in 2018 had not exceeded the 200 jobs. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this petition comes after what? It emerges from a very basic and very elementary premise, which has to do with the promises made in the Government of José Socrates, the Socialist Party and Mr. Secretary of State Manuel Pizarro, who, moreover, being from the North region, knew very well the reality, and the abissal difference in the harsh reality of the facts that, after the implementation of this project, occurred. This is the reality that you cannot deny. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, this hospital ended up being sold to another private group, health care provider in the north of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u186	Mr President, you have to finish, you have far exceeded the time you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u187	Mr. President, I'm done. However, in contrast to ideological hatred of private individuals and private initiative, the PSD is open to discussing this matter seriously, but, Mr. President, never in the degree of exaggeration, irresponsibility and irrationality of José Socrates, Manuel Pizarro and many of those who are sitting on the PS bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u188	by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the approximately 4500 citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are discussing today, here, and who want to hold conventions within the framework of the National Health Service and the Hospitals Lord of Bonfim, with a view to providing health care to the people. But before entering my own intervention, I would like to leave here two notes: no one comes here to tell stories of Pedro, Paul, Manuel and Joaquim, but the PSD Member forgot that, in the full election campaign, Mr. Prime Minister of then and Minister Paulo Macedo, went to the Varzim People and the Vila do Conde campaign, promising such contracts of conventions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS does not have two sides, the PS recognizes that these health units are very important, even private, for a complementarity of the National Health Service. We defend that we are all few in order to have a National Health Service with great quality, but we must not forget that we first have to exhaust the valences and the service we have in public units and then, yes, face the private units. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must always take into account the set of public health units and then, yes, I repeat, private health units. Therefore, I cannot fail to mention that the Lord of Bonfim Hospital is part of an urban context that serves a very significant portion of the population of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and therefore must relate to the entities of the National Health Service, in a logic of complementarity. This comes to be a paradigmatic example of how the SNS should relate to the private and social sectors, in a logic of complementarity, as I have already said, with a complementary character, in very specific situations in which the State does not guarantee due response in due time. For example, we can refer to integrated continuous care, where the Lord of Bonfim Hospitals, through protocols with the SNS, have put into operation two internment units: one of medium duration and rehabilitation and one of long duration and maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State, under the Convention regime, establishes partnerships and protocols with a different set of entities outside the Public Administration, but members of the Portuguese health system, where such partnerships appear beneficial to the State, in general, but particularly to the patient. And these partnerships should be maintained whenever all capacity installed in public sector entities is exhausted, ensuring, among other things, full compliance with guaranteed maximum response times. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have already stated many times, in this plenary, the PS does not have a statistical view of health, knows how to respect and acknowledge the important social role of the institutions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u190	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u191	... especially in the provision of health care, but will never abdicate to strengthen the centrality of the National Health Service as a fundamental element in guaranteeing the right of access to health care and its protection and promotion. We must not forget that the PS is part of the solution and that the government is willing to solve the problems, but I never put the National Health Service at risk. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u192	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u193	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u194	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u195	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u196	Mr President, for good help from the memory of the present and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u197	Mr President, you are not going to make a political intervention. What about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u198	Mr President, I am not going to make an intervention. The PSD Parliamentary Group would like to request the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to have Mr. Prime Minister's statements circulated at the time and Minister Paulo Macedo, in which they promised such a contract with the Lord of Bonfim Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u199	Mr President, you have clearly made a political intervention by calling on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which will answer how you understand. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I wanted to begin by greeting the petitioners, the more than 4000 signatures collected around the problem of the Lord of Bonfim Hospital. This petition has a historical context that it is important to remember, since it also no longer occurs today. The petitioners called for the fulfilment of the promises and expectations of the City Council of the Povoa of Varzim, the PSD, and the Municipal Council of Vila do Conde, the PS, which had been created through the State of AICEP ( Agency for the Investment and Foreign Trade of Portugal ), and also through the Prime Minister of Height, Passos Coelho, and the Minister of Health, Paulo Macedo, in order to conclude the integrated conventions in accordance with Article 8. o Decree-Law No 139 / 2013. That is, the petitioners had the expectation—it was promised—that the Lord of Bonfim Hospitals would be the SNS for the municipalities of Póvoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde. The CFP has always, but always, been against this perspective and we have fought against it, due to the damage this caused to the populations. However, this private hospital was first sold to a mercy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u201	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u202	...and then, a second time, to a private economic group that speculates in the area of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u203	It's a lie! You're misinformed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u204	It is an economic group that speculates in the area of health and that economic group wants to bill on the SNS account. That's what this is about! So, what we're saying here, sirs. Members, it is not the PS or PSD that solves the problem of the population of Póvoa Varzim and Vila do Conde. what these populations need is more SNS, more National Health Service, not more and more private. [[PCP applause.]] More: Povoa from Varzim and Vila do Conde already have more privates! What is questionable is how it is possible to license another private hospital, when, literally, we are surrounded by private hospitals and we have so much shortage from the point of view of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u206	What I would like to highlight here is that, indeed, we have a challenge and neither the intervention of Mrs Joana Lima nor the speeches of Mrs Lima. PSD Members responded to this challenge. And the challenge we put here, which we support and that we want to place on the table as a priority for the population of Póvoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde is as follows: firstly, the hospitals of Póvoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde need works urgently, which allow them to maintain their functioning, and the honourable Member did not mention this;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u207	I didn't have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u208	... secondly, it is important that, once and for all, steps are taken to build a new hospital in Póvoa Varzim and Vila do Conde, within the framework of the SNS, thus responding to the ambition of the population, which so much needs a strong SNS and no more private, Mrs Depute. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u209	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, would like to greet the petitioners and say that the objective of this petition is very simple, that the health care these petitioners need can be provided with quality and on their land, or in place close to their land, more precisely in the Povoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde. At first, I believe that we are all in agreement with this object, so what motivates disagreement is the medium that is pointed out, because the medium is the celebration of conventions with the Lord of Bonfim Hospital, which is private. in this context, the position of the CDS is very clear: there are two fundamental subjects that have to be guarded in relation to health care. The first is the interest of the patients and users as they, in their capacity and freedom, see and defend him and not as they see him and defend, through their prejudices, the Members are the ones they are party to; and the second is the allocation of public resources, which are the resources of all of us, those of taxes. I would like to say, very clearly because the word « hostages» has been used, that the freedom of patients and taxpayers cannot be held hostage by the ideological prejudices of some of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They are, in their freedom, who know what is best, who know where they are best treated and who know the best application for their money. It's not the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, your prejudices! If they understand it's in the public, it's in the public; if they understand it's in private, it's in private. They are free and are not hostage to the will of the honourable Member to statize everything and to send everything! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] If you think it's better for you, do it for you! They know what's best for them! By applying this principle, which is a basic principle of freedom, in this case, the question to be asked is the following: can this hospital provide these quality health care? Patients say yes. Can you lend it in conditions of good allocation of public resources? That's what matters. It is that the study of ARS ( Regional Health Administration ) in the North points to savings in such state money.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u211	We know that language!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u212	If this study points to savings and if health care can be better and cheaper, I do not see where the problem is but in prejudice. I don't know if this is enough to make the hospital profitable, but the question is that we have to defend the interests of patients and taxpayers and not the interests of the private — that is their responsibility to defend them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u213	They also have the right to decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u214	Finally, I would like to say the following: apparently, there were great obstacles to the conclusion of these conventions, which, in fact, motivated this petition. However, and since then, most of the social capital of this hospital has changed hands and what seems to be that there are no longer any such obstacles to the conclusion of the conventions. In fact, they have been widely reported. And in that regard, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't hear anyone asking if the problem with the conventions has to do with the interests of the patients or if it has to do with who owns the hospital. from our point of view, the patient's interest is. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-07.u215	We are thus at the end of our agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and its agenda contains several points for discussion. at point one, we will jointly appreciate Resolution Projects No. 1891 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reorganise the curricula in basic and secondary education and 1936 XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad and deep national debate on the reorganization of teaching cycles and the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization. in point two, discuss-CL- will together be the Resolution Projects Nos 1833 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — by the abolition of tolls on the Via do Infante, 1834 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25, 1835 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41 / A42 and A29, 1836 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A24, 1837 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A23, 1359 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government move the “Portico do Estadio” in order to safeguard the interests of the local economy of Aveiro and of all those who have to travel in the urban mesh of that city, 1521 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of AR No 63/2013 for an alternative study to the « Pórtico do stadium » defending Aveiro's best interests and ending with a serious injustice towards the Aveirenses, 1558 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of tolls on the so-called motorway of Pinhal Interior ( A13 section between the Enthronement and Coimbra and A13.1 linking the Condeix), 1827 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A23, 1828 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A24, 1829 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A25, 1830 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A22 / Via do Infante, 1857 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A25, 1858 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A24, 1859 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — by the abolition of tolls in A23 and 1861 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Way of the Child. Next in point three, Petition No 499 / XIII / 3 will be appreciated. a (from the initiative of Maria Teresa Saraiva Lopes da Silva et al.) — Requests legislation to ensure the promotion, protection, full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with reduced capacity, together with the Draft Resolution No 1804 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability, for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person, accepted in all public services, and apply the National Functional Table for a fair allocation of the tax and social benefits to which the person with disabilities, chronic illness or disability may be entitled. of point four, the assessment of Petition No 476 / XIII / 3. a (from the initiative of Marco Diogo de Araújo Veríssimo and others) — Recognition and appreciation of the nurses of the Public Administration as professionals to perform functions under particularly difficult conditions. of point five, the assessment of Petition No 494 / XIII / 3. a (from the initiative of Margarida Tavares Peralta Couto and others) — Letter for public participation in health. Finally, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our work, I thank all of you for your participation. See you tomorrow and a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
