ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by announcing that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr President, the Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Old Combating Statute, which goes down to 3. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following draft laws: No 144 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Aggravating the penal frameworks deprived of liberty for the conduct that configure the crimes of sexual abuse of children, sexual abuse of dependent minors and sexual acts with adolescents and creation of the accessory penalty of chemical castration, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 148 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission ; No 158 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits fox hunting, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u3	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who feel and who are silent, because you are speaking to our and your colleague, the Secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u4	Mr President, I am still referring to the following draft laws : No 159 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits the hunting of raspberries, excludes this species from the list of cingetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 160 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting at honey, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 161 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting for black darts, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 162 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Bans hunting, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission ; and No 163 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits the hunting of prey and excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004 which falls to 7. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following draft resolutions: No 156 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government carry out a study on a possible integration of the case of lawyers and applicants into social security; point 157 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ; and No 158 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — At the end of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the areas of Battle and Pombal. Mr. President, I finished reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us then enter the first item on the agenda, which is generally discussed by Bill 21 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment, 108 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Updates asbestos listing in public buildings, facilities and equipment and makes public the respective monitoring and corrective actions timing plan( 1 ). the amendment to Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February ), 115 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the removal of products containing asbestos fibers still present in buildings, installations and equipment and 122 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment, together with Resolution Projects Nos 96 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent preparation of a plan for the withdrawal of all asbestos materials in public schools, 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government make public the list of buildings where public services are provided containing asbestos and the complete schedule for removal and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented to the European Union with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, the introduction of a line making asbestos removal operations eligible in public buildings. To present the Green DOS Bill, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecological Party has placed on the political agenda, with a high priority, the issues of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, the danger that such a reality may constitute and also suitable solutions for the elimination of that risk. Asbestos, it is not too much emphasized, is a cancer agent, which can cause lung and gastrointestinal diseases, and its presence, especially in school buildings, has merited very proactive attention by DOS Greens, with various initiatives and complaints. As is general knowledge, the integrity of the material is not guaranteed, especially from the fibration plates installed on the roofs of numerous public buildings, there is a substantial increase in the risk of releasing fibers into the air, precisely due to the danger of inhalation of these fibres. It was therefore taken into account that the Greens presented in the Assembly of the Republic a draft law with a view to the detection, monitoring and removal of asbestos in public buildings, which was approved and which resulted in Law No 2 / 2011. This law determined the realization by the Government of a survey of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, the elaboration of an exhaustive list and its disclosure, as well as the realization of corrective actions, which included the removal of the material containing asbestos, where this need was encountered. It's good to remember that we talked about 2011, which means that the PSD and CDS first, and the PS, then they just stepped up. Another matter that brings the three together in the same portrait! The listing of public buildings with asbestos is known, but the timing plan defined by the government for intervention in these buildings is not known. However, Parliament needs to be the holder of this information. The Greens have persistently questioned the government about the state of intervention and the priorities for intervention in public buildings containing asbestos, but we have not always been able to obtain an adequate response. On the other hand, it is fair and necessary that all people who attend public buildings may have information on the timing of the corrective actions envisaged, which has motivated many of the protests we have witnessed in defence of public health and require the withdrawal of asbestos from public buildings, in particular from schools. Thus, the Greens decided to return to the topic and submit a draft law to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic is informed annually about the scheduled timing for the implementation of corrective actions, including asbestos removal actions in public buildings containing it in its construction, so that it will definitely continue to a process that should already be completed. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u7	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Asbestos is an omnipresent compound in civil construction, in various materials. We know, many decades ago, that it is also a highly cancerous material that causes respiratory diseases. Unfortunately, the Portuguese State has not given a proper response to its removal from the outset because the European directive has already been transposed in Portugal. The Left Block presents here a bill with two essential proposals: update the list of buildings with public services that contain asbestos and that the calendar of works be public. The only reason for being the left block bill is the fact that the government is failing. The government is failing to protect public health, the government is failing to protect public confidence in public services, the government is failing with the entire school community — students and teachers — that attend public school, with patients and health professionals attending hospitals where it may be asbestos at risk, but it is also failing in transparency and scrutiny. There is a list of buildings that contain asbestos where public services work. Unfortunately, this list is out of date, and the government itself supports it in a resolution of the 2017 Council of Ministers. The Government of the Socialist Party says that the existing listing is weak, limited and out of date, because the previous government — the PSD and the CDS — has in many cases limited itself to checking whether the building concerned had only fibrosis, neglecting everything else. Well, that's right. The problem is that since 2016 the Government of the Socialist Party has a working group led by the Minister of the Environment whose first task was to update this list, but this list is still not updated. The Government is failing and therefore presents the Left Block this project to ensure by law that this listing is updated by June 2020. By the middle of next year, we want to make public a new updated list of buildings containing asbestos where public services work. But yet this working group did not complete its work and we found that the competence in the removal of asbestos passed from the Minister of the Environment to the Minister of Finance. We are suspicious and we are concerned that it is no longer an environmental and public health problem to become just a financial problem. The left block bill has a second aspect: by law, there is a schedule of works and monitoring for removal of asbestos. This calendar has already been requested by the Left Block and by civil society, but the government continues not to disclose it. That is why, by law, we want this schedule of works and monitoring to be made public. That is why the government is failing in this matter, but we cannot fail. That is why the Left Block brings here this draft law essential to the matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u9	You have the floor to present the initiative of the NAP, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2005 the use of asbestos has been prohibited. In 2011 it was approved the law that provided for the diagnosis and removal of asbestos in public buildings. Since then, there have been working groups, funding provided, more legislation, recommendations adopted in the Assembly of the Republic — the last one in this Parliament — but almost everything remains to be done. As regards the buildings and equipment of the Central Public Administration, 4263 buildings were identified, of which 1364 represent an immediate danger to the health of workers and users. The recent reports show that several reference hospitals have exposed asbestos fibers, with all the consequences that they have from there. of the buildings identified, according to data from the association SOS Amanto, only 367 were intervened. As regards the buildings of the local administration where so many elementary schools are covered, it is not known whether the diagnosis was completed in 2017, as recommended by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 97 / 2017, nor is it known the timing of these interventions. So far, the list of schools with asbestos remains closed to seven keys. Alongside this, there is the question of asbestos in private buildings. Although Law No 63 / 2018 is already in force, it only concerns business buildings, making no reference to private homes. In addition, the law provided for the Government to promote support and the conditions for access to funds, in particular Community funds, with a view to the inventory and removal of asbestos of buildings. You don't know if anything has been done. How many times will it be necessary to bring this issue to debate until any measures are effectively implemented? We cannot leave citizens and citizens to their fate, the danger is real. Between 4 % and 12 % of cases of lung cancer have resulted in exposure to asbestos and between 2007 and 2017 at least 334 people have died and more recent data are unknown. To counter this data, yes, it is necessary to make diagnoses, but, above all, it is necessary to move forward with the removal of the asbestos of the buildings identified. The NAP, with this bill, proposes that by 2020, the Government should remove all materials and equipment containing asbestos in public buildings of the central administration, as was also foreseen in the National Reform Programme, which, by 2020, the Government, in conjunction with the National Association of Municipalities, undertakes the diagnosis, prioritization and timing of interventions for the removal of materials and equipment containing asbestos in public buildings of the local administration, which, by 2021, the Government, in collaboration with local authorities, promotes the removal of all materials and equipment containing asbestos in public buildings of the local administration and which by 2020 the Government shall draw up an intervention plan for the diagnosis and removal of materials and equipment containing asbestos, including the respective financing solutions in private buildings. More: in view of the history of lack of action in the removal of asbestos and the lack of transparency in the reporting of the results of the performance of the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, we propose the establishment of an independent committee which responds to it on the enforcement of the law by submitting six-month reports. It is concluded that what has been done so far is not at the level of the requirement of the situation. Lists of buildings with asbestos remain hidden, or by doing, the corresponding removal schedules remain unknown and the lives of people remain at risk, many of them without seeing any light at the bottom of the tunnel. It is urgent to intervene! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u11	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also brings the debate an initiative on concern with the removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, facilities and equipment, accompanying the concerns of the population and the educational community, which has claimed the removal of the coverages that still contain asbestos in schools, because we know that there are a number of public and private buildings, in use or abandoned, which still contain asbestos coverage. In the sense of caution, prevention and safeguarding public health, we believe it is necessary, in fact, to continue to take steps towards the completion and complete removal of this material. The law was passed in 2011, but the truth is that over all these years, effective measures have not been taken to achieve the objective of removal of asbestos. Therefore, we have a legislative initiative that proposes not only the updating of the list of public buildings containing asbestos coverage, but also that an annual periodic report be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, precisely to account for what has been done, what will be done and which is the destination given to the waste resulting from this intervention, to accompany the waste concern and to ensure that they have, in fact, the most appropriate destination, taking into account its periodicity. We also propose that there be a timetable and an intervention on returned buildings, some of which are public property, other private property, because we also need your list and an intervention plan. With regard to those who are private property, it is, of course, necessary to hold their owners accountable, so that, in the context of this concern about public health and populations, all these materials are taken and removed from the buildings. This is the contribution of the CFP to overcome a situation of great concern among the communities, but also a contribution to definitely solving a problem that is identified and that requires a firm and determined intervention for its implementation. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u13	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa to present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, I entered this Chamber and promised myself that I would not make a mistake in this debate between those with responsibility since 2011, until, except for the few exceptions of the parties who have just arrived at this House, all the others, in any way or otherwise, are involved in this matter either because they have been in government, or because they have approved budgets that have left the situation in the state in which they are. Therefore, going to the subject, the theme of removal of asbestos and, in particular, of damaged asbestos which thus comes into contact with the air, is a public health problem that seems to converge among all parliamentary groups, at least reading the projects that are under discussion, regarding their identification, removal and treatment. The chronology has already been made here, there is no lack of laws, since the decree-law of 2005, which prohibited its use, to the law of 2011, which stipulated the identification, lifting and timing of its removal until February 2012, to the list that the PSD / CDS Government has submitted in 2014 still provisionally to Law No 63 / 2018, which replicated what Law No 2 / 2011 said but for private buildings, the fact is that, despite all this, we are still here today realizing that there is a public health problem to be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u16	On September 10, this year, in a school in Portela, at a conference promoted by the Asbestos Without Schools Movement, I and Mrs.Jona Mortagua had the opportunity to learn a lot about this subject—until we say that we have taken an honorary doctorate cause in the matter—to listen to various experts and to know several things that are worrying. We know that, during the previous government, there were about 150 interventions in schools, but interventions on diflying scales, because in some cases, the removal of tellers and, in others, only on their side or in one area of buildings destined for Physical Education, but not their complete cleaning, we know that about 800 educational equipment, superior and not superior, appear to have been asbestos given the moment of their construction, and we know that there is asbestos in many materials, that sometimes are not identified, for example, in wall coverings and on the ground, which is not seen, that kills slowly and that there is no way to establish a scientific correlation between its placement and the effects that can cause. There is still an underlying problem with its removal, which is that of nobody knowing very well what to do with what remains, because the only chance is to seal it on landfills and available landfills, today, are congested and do not give flow. Having said this, obviously what needs to be done is to re-identify, now with more knowledge, where it is necessary to act and start to act, because it is certainly not with legislation that we go there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u18	Therefore, the commitment of the CDS — if any, even my personal commitment to several sets of educational communities with which I have met — is to move this process forward, particularly in schools. I remember very well that this discussion began, with regard to the CDS, in the past legislature, at a conference promoted by the association of parents at the Gaspar Correia School in Loures, where it was present, then, Mrs. Susana Amador, now Secretary of State, who at the time expressed himself very concerned about the matter, of course, saying that this would be a priority. So I am confident that now the government or at least the Ministry of Education will not fail schools. In conclusion, I would say that we will enable all draft resolutions and all draft laws, because everyone points to solutions, and that they will count on the CDS to ensure maximum pressure on the government so that the start of the work will still take place in this legislature, but that by the end of the year at least all buildings are identified where they need to start, scheduled the work and associated a budget, so that we can know what we need to count on. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u19	You now have the floor to Mrs Filipa Roseta to present the PSD draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of asbestos in building materials can cause cancer in users. Asbestos has therefore been banned in the European area. In Portugal, Law No 2 / 2011 determined in Article 1. the, the removal of all asbestos of buildings, installations and public equipment and determined in its Article 7. , the obligation to provide information to all users of these buildings on the existence of asbestos and on the time limit for the removal of this material. Dear Members, this is a public health problem and there is no need to change the law in order to solve it. What we needed was a government capable of complying with the law, but that, unfortunately, is what we do not have. We have a more busy government to find excuses than to find solutions. Let's remember. In 2014 a Technical Commission of Asbestos was appointed and a list of public buildings capable of asbestos was drawn up. It was a provisional list that lacked revision, but so far it is the only public list. In 2017, an Asbestos Working Group was appointed under the auspices of the Minister of the Environment to review the list and redefine intervention priorities. This group has concluded that there are 4263 buildings, but information on intervention priorities has never been made public. Social concern has grown, particularly in schools, where users are children and therefore have less defenses to understand or avoid exposure risks. Here, in this plenary, the Prime Minister stated that asbestos would be removed from schools until 2018. It passed 2018 and the Prime Minister did not comply. It passed 2018 and in the asbestos removal plan the final deadline for the removal of all asbestos was postponed by 2020. This is already in the plan and therefore it is not necessary to put it into law. Having money for so much in 2019, was there not enough for this serious public health problem? Oh, my God! But — attention! — the PSD Parliamentary Group, in March 2019, asked the Minister for the Environment what was happening, but the Minister did not respond. The PSD Parliamentary Group asked again in May, but the Minister did not respond. And he asked again in June, but the Minister did not answer. Already in October, in view of the growing social concern resulting from this silence, the PSD Parliamentary Group demanded an urgent hearing with the Minister of the Environment, but the Minister did not appear. In November, the public petition created by the Non Asbestos School Movement ( MESA ), the environmental association ZERO and the FENPROF added more than 5000 signatures in just two weeks. I welcome the representatives who are present here to attend this debate and who have organized themselves to present this petition. Today, with this draft resolution, we again appeal to the Government to get out of silence and enforce the law. [[All right!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u21	We ask you to make public the list of public buildings with materials containing asbestos and to make public the calendar defined for the removal of materials containing asbestos from all public buildings. Dear Members and Members, listening to citizens and providing information does not weigh €1 in the State budget; not providing information is disrespecting citizens, in clear violation of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u22	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u23	Mr President, I just want to remember that in democracy governments exist to serve citizens and silence is the response of governments that have already forgotten this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u24	The floor is now for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. Due to its intrinsic properties of resistance, isolation and elasticity, asbestos was widely used in building materials, forming part of virtually all phases of the construction process of European buildings designed between 1945 and 1990. The degradation of the materials exposed to physical breakdown constitutes a high risk to public health and the environment, due to the release into the air of carcinogenic breathable fibers, as mentioned above. Therefore, the removal of products containing asbestos fibers, buildings, installations and equipment is a matter that concerns us all and that has been constituted as a central objective, either for the previous or for the current government, led by the Socialist Party. In order to achieve this objective, the former Government of the PS, gave primary importance to the collection of more up-to-date and detailed information on buildings that require intervention, their prioritization and the sources of funding for the realization of the necessary works for the removal of materials containing asbestos. Thus, in May 2016, the Government created a three-purpose working group. The first purpose was to update and complete the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, facilities and equipment where public services are provided; the second was to list, according to priority categories, the interventions to be carried out; and the third was to find solutions for the corresponding financing and rapid execution. In a report presented in March 2017, the asbestos working group identified 3739 cases, estimating that, after completion of the diagnosis, the number of buildings that lack intervention reaches 4263. It is an estimated cost of around EUR 422 million. This data, together with the priorisation and timing of interventions, is the so-called asbestos removal programme approved in the National Reform Programme. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 97 / 2017 has determined that it is carried out to comply with the programme of removal of asbestos, with priority to interventions classified as 'priority one', and public entities are responsible for doing so. Moreover, the Council of Ministers also decided to determine the presentation by the Portuguese Republic of applications to the European Investment Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, as well as the positive discrimination of investments in the removal of asbestos within the framework of the candidature of Portugal 2020. Subsequently, under the State Budget Act for 2019, the Heritage Rehabilitation and Conservation Fund was also identified to fund the asbestos removal program. The Socialist Party, recognizing the extreme relevance of the removal of products containing asbestos fibers from public buildings, as a guarantee of well-being and the preservation of the health of people and their communities, as well as an important contribution to environmental balance, considers that, at the moment, with all the tools created and procedures already implemented on the ground, the strategic option that it is important to pursue, strengthen and implement is that of access to financing by the entities responsible for the buildings to need intervention. Thus, the draft resolution submitted by the Socialist Party recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u27	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, the draft resolution submitted by the Socialist Party recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented to the European Union, with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, the introduction of a line to make all asbestos removal operations still present in public buildings, facilities and equipment eligible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u28	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u29	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we have had an exercise here of what citizens today consider to be, often, Parliament: a role of conversation without absolutely any solution. And we have the same thing about asbestos. As has been said in a previous speech, we need no more laws, we have Law No. 2 / 2011, which obliges the Government to take up the buildings where this problem exists within one year, makes it necessary to schedule its monitoring and obliges the problem to be resolved. What has been done so far in this matter? Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u30	And what is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u31	Moreover, we had Mr Prime Minister in an election campaign to respond as follows: « The government does what it can about asbestos ». For, then, if you do what you can, you have done very little in this matter, which directly undermines the health of citizens, their future and their sustainable balance. Worse yet, the Socialist Party now comes with an innovative solution: a credit line — a credit line! Such 800 million for health, such 200 million for transport, I don't know how many million for vital subsidies. And there's no money to remove the asbestos from the facilities that challenge the health of the Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u32	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, because it has already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u33	And what is your solution? Oh, my God! What's your proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u34	It's embarrassing! This credit line project has only one word: shame! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] That is what this government and the Socialist Party characterize! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u35	The honourable Member uses the words « shame» and « shame» too easily, which often offends Parliament as a whole. And offend you, too. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Members.]] [[CH protests.]] Hurt him, too. Let's go on. Mr Joacine Katar Moreira, of the Free, has the floor for an intervention. Continuation of PS, BE, and PSD Members'applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u36	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u37	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u38	Mr. President, I ask for the floor to defend honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u39	The defense of honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u40	Defense of honor, yes, Mr. President. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u41	So, please. Say what you have to say, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u42	Mr President, I believe that one Member uses the expressions which he legitimately understands in the context of the freedom of expression given to him by the Constitution and Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u43	Mr President, there is no freedom of speech when one overcomes the freedom of expression of others, which is what he does most of the time he intervenes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u44	Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's a shame...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u45	We will continue the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u46	It is shameful what is happening in this Parliament. It is shameful what is happening in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u47	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u48	It's shameful, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u49	Mr. Deputies, you don't have the floor anymore, you're done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] You have the floor, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u50	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I would like to welcome the important legislative measures that are under discussion, both bills and draft resolutions, and to inform you that we will vote in favour of them. I also wanted to leave a word of encouragement to the Socialist Party. The obsession with financial stabilization cannot exceed the objective, first, to ensure that nothing wrong happens to citizens and that no initiative ceases to be taken when what is concerned is health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u51	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of conclusion of the debate, we would like to reiterate that, in our initiative, we are bringing proposals that allow us to go further, in addition to what is already in the law, either with regard to treatment and ensuring that waste is in fact the most appropriate destination, or with regard to concern for returned buildings, because it is important that there is also an intervention and that there is planning of the same intervention, in order of priorities. However, in view of the present and what is needed with regard to this concern about asbestos that exists in the coverage of a set of buildings, there is indeed a need for investment, timing and intervention to effectively solve the problems identified. There are many who are identified. There are, for example, several schools that have been reporting this problem and for which the same intervention is still not planned. the intervention of the Government is therefore essential. There have been a number of delays from the current government and from previous governments, but once and for all we need to solve a problem that has, in fact, been of great concern to our communities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u53	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is asked here is only reasonable. A survey of schools and public buildings that have asbestos and a timing of intervention is requested. It is so reasonable that a single movement, the Non-Asbestos School Movement—which I take advantage of to congratulate—has succeeded in a little more than one month in doing what the government refuses to do, which is a school uprising, because of the denunciation of the school communities themselves. Almost 100 schools are already identified. It is a shame that the movement must replace the government... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u55	So now the President doesn't say anything? Oh, my God! She also said « shame»!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u56	...in the dissemination and advertising of these schools. And it is irresponsible, because it is the lack of transparency on this list that creates alarmism in school communities. So here is a question that is fatal, perhaps politically more fatal, than asbestos, which is: why is this list not known?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u57	Because the government is socialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u58	It is that, if this list was known, then the timing of the interventions would also have to be known. If this schedule were known, then the Minister and the Government would know that these school communities would require removal of asbestos and intervention according to that list. What we realize today in this debate is that what was a public health problem is being transformed by the government and the Socialist Party into a money problem. What we know is that if the holes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u59	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. What we know is that if the holes that exist on the fibration tiles in the Grouping of Schools Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the Sixal, were holes in the financial system there would already be money to cover them. What we know is that you can't put on...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u61	Mrs Deputy, you have already exceeded your time widely, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. What we know is that we cannot — and we do not accept — put the surplus of Mário Centeno in front of the health of our children and school communities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u63	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u64	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Greens cannot fail to appreciate that most parties have submitted bills and draft resolutions on this subject. Let us therefore hope that this will mean that this problem, which is going to be dragged on over time, will now see the process of evaluation and removal of the material, where this need is seen. What is clear is that the requalification of public schools has not been the priority of successive governments. [[PSD protests.]] Fortunately, the tiredness of promises that always end in small budgets has led to an increasing awareness of the school communities of the risks they face, of the need for greater comfort and precarious working conditions, with a strong impact on the streets and on the news of the country. It is urgent to know the dimension of the problem, but it is more important that the Portuguese people know which plan to eradicate the danger where it may exist. It is not possible to keep an eye on the dangers that many young people and professionals face daily. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u65	We now move on to the second point of our agenda, the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government resolve persistent delays in the processing of pension pensions, 16 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt all the measures and procedures necessary to resolve the problem of delay in processing, award and payment of various social benefits, including old age and disability pensions, survival and other death benefits, 106 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to reduce the response period of the National Pension Centre and ensure timely access to old age, disability and survival pensions and 109 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to take measures to eliminate any remaining constraints in the processing of pensions. In order to present the PSD project, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u66	Mr. President and Mr. Members : « The state requires citizens what does not require of itself». This phrase is not from the PSD, but from the Ombudsman, whom the Portuguese, in despair, have resorted to complaining of the state's delays in the allocation of their pensions, to complain of the drama in which they live because of the state's manifest inefficiencies. This is the general feeling of the citizens to whom the State has been failing in a serious and repeated way. This is the clear sign of a government that does not see in people the centre of its political action and that it throws them into a situation of poverty and economic precariousness, an unacceptable, unacceptable attitude, indignation and not of a rule of law. It is unacceptable for a person to spend years and years of his life working, make discounts for social security and, once he reaches the retirement age, he cannot get the pension he is entitled to! It is unacceptable for the State to pay late and late hours, without interest, and still be able to make an unfair taxation within IRS, to blame citizens' accounts without any notification and often to burden values above that permitted by law. It is unworthy that the State causes serious difficulties to family members who are often forced to avail themselves of the help of family and friends so that they can have money. This is because the state does not pay them what they are entitled to. In the previous legislation, the PSD, in several ways and in several ways, expressed its concern about this situation and called on the Government to quickly resolve the problem of delays in the allocation of pensions and reforms which, in some cases, exceed two years, a concern that unfortunately remains and results from the evidence that the government continues to fail in the realization of a legitimate right built by its citizens. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation has been so serious that even the Ombudsman has had to intervene with constant calls for the resolution of the dramatic situation in which many families live and even with the establishment of an inspection of State bodies. But the fact is that, despite the interventions and appeals of the PSD and the Ombudsman, the problem is not only resolved as the complaints against the State continue to increase. It is that although the government has promised that the situation would be resolved by June 2019, the truth is that we are in December and the problem is not solved, we do not know when it will be and, worse, complaints continue to increase. She refers to the Ombudsman, in a recent interview of the beginning of December, who the total number of complaints has increased in 2019. Only this year will the 10,000 complaints pass! That is unacceptable, unacceptable and unworthy, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Here we return to, once again, denounce this situation and, above all, appeal to everyone to join the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u67	Should they join the PSD? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u68	... and require the Government to resolve, as a matter of urgency, delays in the allocation of pensions, so that the Portuguese are no longer affected by the delays of the Public Administration, either at the tax level or at the level of social benefits. We therefore present this legislative initiative and call on all of us to join the PSD and demand that the Government do what it has not done in four years. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate exempts the Portuguese from indicating the content of the matter, since unfortunately everyone at the moment knows the problem of delay in paying pensions, first of all, of course, those who requested them and who stayed first days, after weeks, after months and, in so many cases, more than one year waiting for what, at the end of their contribution career, would be of the greatest justice to be promptly dispatched. They are not asking the State to lend them any favor, nor to give them any blessing, they are not asking the State for anything that is not theirs. They are calling on the State to fulfil an obligation which the State has towards each of them, taking into account their contribution careers, their discounts, or what their social situation lacks, of course, because it is also recognized by law. Since 2016 the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has been questioning the Government, the former and now the latter on this issue in numerous statutory hearings in the Commission, and in numerous questions asked to the Government, these questions have a maximum time limit of 30 days. It happens that in neither 30 days nor a year, the Socialist Government has never answered questions about the delay in the processing of pensions. And if it is serious that a government disrespects citizens, not processing their pensions, if it is serious that a government disrespects the regiment figure of the question in order to be able to inform citizens about what is going on in the processing of pensions, so serious is what the government has done in relation to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has already asked the Government twice about this matter, and it has been very clear about what was at issue. The Ombudsman, in June last year, said that the situation was worrying and that pensions of old age, disability, survival and death were with a delay that was not explained. More: The Ombudsman recommended that necessary measures and procedures be taken to resolve the problem rapidly. The rapid resolution of the problem was claimed by the Ombudsman in June last year, but between June and the end of that year nothing was done at all, which led to the Ombudsman's insistence in December. The data are irrefutable: the number of complaints in the Ombudsman's Office in 2018 tripled in relation to 2017 and the average delay in the processing of pensions for citizens who complained to the Ombudsman's Office was between nine and ten months, and in many cases waiting was more than one year. In 2018, the number of complaints lodged in the Ombudsman's Office on this matter was 920, i.e. there were 920 Portuguese whose pension should have already started to be paid, but it had not been. And this number reflects only those who went to the Provedoria of Justice, far, certainly, from the total number of Portuguese who are waiting for the pension. Also in the Assembly of the Republic, on 10 October last year, Mr President of the Social Security Institute undertook to resolve the problem quickly and reduce the average processing times of pensions, but nothing changed. In September 2018, the Minister for Social Security had also said that by the end of that year these problems would be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u71	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u72	I'm done now, Mr. President. Later Mr. Prime Minister said that it would be until the end of the first half of 2019. We are at the end of 2019, which naturally coincides with the end of the second half, and the problem is not solved. On behalf of all Portuguese who continue to wait for the Socialist Government to bring them to justice, we are here demanding that justice be done to them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u73	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you wait in response to pension applications is serious for all citizens, because the law defines a period of 90 days for such a response to a pension application, it is absolutely dramatic for people who have stopped working because they have already exceeded their legal retirement age and continue to expect to receive their pension or for those who require the long-term unemployment pension, it has already stopped receiving unemployment benefit, but is not yet receiving their pension. These people are, of course, in a situation of dependence, in a state of need, and it is not even reasonable that these cases can be referred, for example, to the social income of inclusion, which is a provision of combating poverty and which has not been done to end the delay in the services in consecrating and guaranteeing a right that is the people, the workers. Delays in the allocation of old-age pensions, disability and survival are, as has already been said, the main cause for complaint about the functioning of the Public Administration, in particular the Ombudsman's Office. This diagnosis had already been made in the previous legislation, persists and the problem has not yet been solved. There are very different cases, we all know that, but the delays in responding to pension applications are essentially due to two factors. The first is that social security, during the period of the troika and the PSD government / CDS, has lost one third of its workers. The National Pension Centre, in the period of governance of the PSD and the CDS, has lost half of its workers and those who have destroyed these services have come to complain about the effects of their own policies. It is still a gesture and an act of hypocrisy! It must be said that in the previous legislation there was a beginning to recover the number of workers. One hundred and twenty-two workers entered the National Pension Centre, some through PREVPAP, others through an internal competition, and there are 70 others who were recruited through an external competition. It is only that these 70 workers hired through an external invitation to tender are delaying their full entry into service. In addition to this, i.e. a recovery — which has not been fully recovered — of the breakdown, of the destruction that these services were targeted in that period, there is also an increase in pension applications — which results, among other reasons, from the rules that have been made and which have allowed, for example, a more favourable regime for early retirements — and at the same time that increased the volume of pension applications the services had not yet recovered their ability to answer and staff. The Left Block, as it is known, presented, at the end of the previous Parliament, a draft resolution recommending to the Government that the means of the National Pension Centre be strengthened and that a provisional pension be given to all citizens waiting beyond the 90 days the law determines. This draft resolution, which the Left Block presented in the Assembly of the Republic, therefore proposes that if the competitive procedures were completed, if the deadline for the recruitment of these same procedures should be extended so that no new competition should be launched every time the number of staff should be strengthened and stays with social security technicians in the countries of greater Portuguese immigration should also be organised. These projects have been approved, but we have found that the problems are not yet fully solved and, therefore, we insist, through this initiative that we present today, that the Government complete all the procedures necessary for hiring staff to the National Pension Centre in order to meet all needs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u75	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u76	...that enables citizens to respond in 90 days and that they also guarantee a provisional pension to all those who are waiting beyond those 90 days. These are urgent measures that need to be put on the ground. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u77	For an intervention, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Speaking of social status is undoubtedly talking about social protection and a system capable of protecting citizens in all cases. That is why more than to point out problems lies with the government and Parliament, while ensuring the pursuit of these social policies, discussing solutions, defining coherent and effective methodologies and, above all, respecting our citizens, who during a lifetime have contributed to the common good and must be respected by public authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u79	That's what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because this debate must be done seriously and what is unacceptable is to see the benches on our right point the finger to government action when the problem results essentially from the decapitalization of services and an effective disrespect for social protection... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and by our people who, for years, have promoted PSD and CDS. Today, and very well, these benches are joined by those which in the previous Parliament worked on measures that caused the failures of social security, but if the political cycle had not changed by the end of 2015 we would not be here today discussing the measures that are still necessary to safeguard a rapid response to social security. We would be discussing cuts in pensions here, we would be discussing the reduction in social security expenditure that you wanted to impose on the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I congratulate this new facet that presents to us today, together with debates that are indeed important to our population and that aim to safeguard an effective solution to laxity in the response of social security. The reasons for this situation of morbidity are several. The sharp loss of human resources was central to the degradation of the service, in parallel with the complexity of the pension processing itself, due to the dispersion of the databases that hinders the reconstruction of the contribution career. The diagnosis is not now and it is entirely fair to remember that the recommendations we make to the government today are a complement to what has been made for a better response by social security. No one has ignored the appeals of the Ombudsman and, above all, no one has ignored the legitimate desires of our population.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u81	In the previous legislation, several measures were implemented: on the one hand, to strengthen the response of services and reduce expectations, either through the strengthening of services or through the consolidation of tax information; on the other hand, through a fair response to situations of delay, either through the creation of a scheme for the allocation of provisional pensions, or through the amendment of tax rules within IRS. It is important to give time to strengthen these proposals, but it is important to show that these proposals have already had positive effects on the functioning of social security. In 2019, the number of completed processes is already greater than the number of new requirements that have entered. In 2019, the average waiting time is already less than 30 % compared to the deadline recorded last December. If that's enough? Of course, we all agree that it is not, but that is why the Socialist Party considers it essential not to change the measures in progress but to consolidate them, and to complement these measures with others which, in the short term, allow for the removal of the constraints that remain. at the same time, and because we consider it important to ensure stability in the social security response, we intend to ensure more permanent monitoring of the problems recorded in this service, defining faster response mechanisms. That is what we are presenting today, and that is what we are discussing today: measures that respect our citizens, measures that ensure the full functioning of the social state and measures that, above all, prioritize the action of the State as a guarantor of a social security system for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u82	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions brought to the debate today allow the Assembly of the Republic to analyse, with some care, the delays in the allocation of old age, disability and survival pensions that have occurred and that have affected a wide range of citizens. The 2018 activity report of the Social Security Institute showed that there was an increase in pension allocation time in Portugal compared to the year 2017, maintaining the trend of increase that had already occurred in previous years. In particular, and as an example, it is noted that, in 2018, and compared to 2017, the allocation of old age pensions took more than 27 % of time, that of disability pensions took more than 12 % of time and that of dependency supplements more than 20 % of time. According to the Institute for Social Security, this increase in waiting times was due to the increase in requirements resulting from changes to the system of flexible access to retirement pensions and the lack of human resources in the National Pension Centre. Despite some detailed measures taken in the previous legislation, these two structural factors remained in 2019 and if nothing is done will remain in 2020, so it is foreseeable that these delays will continue. Of course, we are aware that the problem of insufficiency of human resources in the National Pension Centre did not arise today or in the previous Legislation. This was due to successive cuts in social security personnel in the last two decades due to the political options of the PS governments and PSD/CDS-PP. To confirm this, it will suffice to look at the successive reports of activities of the Social Security Institute, since we found that, in 2004, this Institute had 15 932 workers and that in 2015 it had 7318 workers—less 8614 workers than in 2004. The 2018 data tell us that today the number of workers is 7909, which shows us that, until this date, and although we are in a more favourable economic context in which we supposedly wanted to turn the page of austerity, very little was done to reverse the chronic lack of workers in social security. We welcome the efforts of the former Government, which in August last year ensured the opening of a competitive procedure for the hiring of new workers for social security and in particular for the National Pension Centre. However, not only is the number of new workers insufficient to meet existing needs, as the process is delayed due to the delay in the methods of selection of candidates. In the light of the above, the PAN, in this debate, made the words of the Ombudsman, Maria Lúcia Amaral, who, in the report presented at the end of the previous Parliament to the Assembly of the Republic, stated the following : « Living this type of situation in a year in which it celebrated itself so well deserved and profusely the 70. the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (... ) is disturbing to the community of citizens, who cannot fail to remain insecure and untrustworthy in a State whose services cannot guarantee, in good time, the right of an elderly citizen to adequate social protection”.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u84	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the PS, PSD, BE, and CDS-PP draft resolutions seek to solve this serious problem that affects the fundamental rights of a group of citizens, the NAP will vote in favour of all of them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have put at different times the problem of delays in the allocation of pensions, death benefits and other social benefits by the voice of the Secretary-General of the CFP, who still this week questioned the Prime Minister in the fifteen-year debate and the Minister in regimental hearings, as well as having raised this issue in visits to both the National Pension Centre and the Social Security Institute. It is not acceptable for workers, many in a long-term unemployment situation, to have to wait long months for access to a right, their pension; as it is not acceptable for many other people to wait long months for access to other social benefits, such as death benefits or funeral benefit, which is occurring in situations of more than 20 months' delay. These delays and delays mean situations of great fragility and social vulnerability to the life of the overwhelming majority of these people who, of course, need these incomes to live. This reality, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not appear by chance. He's got causes and he's got political leaders. The delays are inseparable from the lack of social security resources and workers to respond to the existing reality. In 2009 there were more than 14 000 workers in social security. Today, they'll be around 8,000. Between 2006 and 2015, more than 50 % of social security jobs were eliminated and between 2011 and 2015 social security lost one third of its workers, with the National Pension Centre being deeply reached. The political options that occurred at these time intervals in these nine years were taken by PS, PSD and CDS, which, when they were in government, reduced the number of workers in social security by thousands and thus significantly contributed to the dramatic situation today experienced by thousands of people, with delays in pensions and other social benefits. There are no more public servants and the reality of various public services has shown that. In social security, there are no more workers, there is a lack of workers and the external competition which has been opened by the government for 200 workers is far from responding to the necessary reinforcement. The answer to the problem that exists is to hire more workers and to value social security workers. The CFP will continue to intervene for the necessary strengthening of workers in social security and also for their valorisation, because if today the situation is no more serious it is also due to the delivery and effort of these workers to resolve the situations in their hands. The right to social security and social protection is a constitutional right and its realization is inseparable from human and material means that can respond in due course to existing needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for your strict compliance with time. To close this debate, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to say that the PSD has brought this issue to the debate because of its importance, hoping that everyone will be able to raise awareness about a serious problem and that we will be able to provide answers to those who really need them and live in dramatic situations because the State fails them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u90	What we regret and what we have just seen is that the management parties, in their interventions, have fired responsibilities everywhere but for those who really have responsibilities — the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the previous legislation. We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the seriousness of this situation? Not recognizing the error is the first step to repeat it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u91	We therefore once again appeal: join the PSD and demand that the government be able to solve what has not been resolved in four years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which, as you will know, consists in the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence as victims of this crime (the sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims and the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code), 2 / XIV/1. a ( BE) — Making it mandatory, in cases of domestic violence, to collect statements for future memory of the victims ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims), 92 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, 93 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Make it mandatory to make statements for future memory at the request of the victim or the Public Ministry and 123 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creation of allowance for victims of violence who are forced to leave their homes. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence is a problem that 20 years of public policy have not yet been able to deal with. Every year we have fatal victims and tens of thousands of women and children who are subjected to violence in their own homes. We must do more — that is our responsibility and our duty. The Left Block has two proposals which it has already put forward in the past legislature and which, although it has not had the necessary votes to be approved, have had the support of 25 NGOs (non-governmental organizations) working on the ground with these victims, but also from UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ), IAC ( Institute of Child Support ), APMJ ( Portuguese Association of Legal Women ), the Order of Lawyers and the Attorney General of the Republic. We have collected the contributions, recast the proposals and brought them back to the discussion. The first proposal responds to the recommendation of the GREVIO Committee (Group of Experts on Actiongainst Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) and the Istanbul Convention, which urges the Portuguese State, and I quote, "to include children in the same order as their mothers, whether they are direct or indirect victims, since they themselves experience violence in their own skin or witness." The data available indicate that most cases of domestic violence are seen by children. Domestic violence is the second most communicated danger situation to CPCJ (Children and Youth Protection Commissions) and I believe that no one here denies the evidence that exposure to situations of violence leads to devastating consequences on psychological, emotional health and on the development of children. In the past legislature, the parliamentary groups that rejected this proposal argued that children in this situation could already be considered victims under the Penal Code or the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger. They could, but they're not. As the Attorney-General of the Republic has well explained, the truth is that the law on the prevention of domestic violence, Law No. 112/2009, does not expressly include children as victims in these situations and the reality proves to us, indeed, that rarely so are considered by the courts. The Left Block proposes that children living in the context of domestic violence or testimony should always be considered victims, even when they are not the direct target of violence. The second proposal we bring is to face the tremendous challenge of collecting proof of a crime that, most of the time, occurs in the secret of four walls. We propose the collection of victim's statements for future memory within a maximum of 72 hours, the requirement of the victim or the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is a measure that preserves the genuineness of the testimony in good time in a crime in which the victim's testimony is vital, in research processes that are complex and time-consuming, with constant pressure from the aggressors on the victims to demolish the testimony, but which also prevents the repetition of the victim's hearing and thus protects it from the danger of revitalization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u94	Mr Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence represents one of the criminological phenomena with a higher degree of incidence in Portuguese society, transversal to all social groups and age groups. According to the 2018 Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ), 26 472 occurrences were recorded throughout the national territory, i.e. an average of 72 occurrences per day. According to the Observatory of Women Assassinadas ( OMA ), 28 women in the context of domestic violence were killed in 2018 and 30 fatal victims of this scourge are already reported this year. We are facing a crime with serious and profound repercussions on the personal, family, professional and social plans of the victims concerned, a situation that deserves due and adequate answers. One of the problems identified in this area relates to the collection and production of evidence, and it is essential for an effective production of evidence to address the statements of the victims that, the faster they are, the more reliable and detailed they will be and therefore essential in the solid continuation of their criminal process. In domestic violence crimes, there is no obligation to make statements for future memory, such as in the case of crimes against children's sexual freedom and self-determination. Since this is a tool that helps in the search for material truth, we consider that it can also be used in domestic violence processes. in these cases, there is a great influence of the aggressors on the victims, not being unusual, after the time of the complaint or complaint, to convince or intimidate the victims not to make statements, endingly impairing the ongoing investigation, insofar as the aggressions often occur between four walls and the victims are also the only witnesses. On the other hand, we believe that children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence should be recognized as victims of this crime, as, moreover, it is the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic. The impact of domestic violence on children is not a minor evil. Whenever a mother, for example, is subjected to practices of violence, there is a great probability of the child being too. There are studies that show that children in a family where violence against the partner occurs are two to four times more likely to be victims of abuse when compared with children whose families do not experience this phenomenon. Even when they are not physically assaulted, the truth is that many children and young people are at home, sometimes in the same division, when violence happens, or may be in another division, but can hear violent acts. Finally, we cite GREVIO Recommendation No 219, which urges the Portuguese authorities to enable « the inclusion of children in the same order as their mothers, whether direct or indirect child victims, since they themselves experience violence in their own skin or witness it». Our society has been unable to deal with the problem of domestic violence and the evidence is that in today's world it is still one of the most prevalent crimes, whose complaints increase from year to year and in which the news of death at the hands of the partner or companion is unfortunately not unusual. It is the responsibility of this House to do everything within its power to prevent cases of domestic violence, to ensure the efficient protection of all victims and to ensure prompt and fair judicial processes. This is the commitment of the NAP. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u96	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Green Group of Parliamentary Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence, unfortunately, is a matter that remains on the media agenda and, despite the accumulation of legislative and administrative measures to put an end to this barbarity, the fact is that acts of domestic violence continue to victimise a very significant set of women. assumed as a serious violation of human rights and as a serious public health problem, domestic violence is recognized as a problem that society has to tackle firmly and decisively. The legislative amendments have corresponded to this idea, particularly when domestic violence has been characterized as a public crime. The records of the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) show that the number of suspects or identified in domestic violence crimes continues to be well above 20,000 per year and the social communication has repeatedly reported specific cases of murdered women, even when their domestic violence cases were already reported to the authorities. In 2019 there were already 28 women who died victims of domestic violence. There is no doubt that networking and coordinated work, particularly between entities with responsibility for social protection, security agents, judicial authorities and non-governmental organizations, is essential for obtaining more effective responses. It is also essential to strengthen technicians in these services so that responses to aid applications become more effective. From the telephone lines available to a network of shelters for victims of violence who are forced to leave their homes, there is indeed an investment that needs to continue to be made. The Greens believe that conditions must be guaranteed so that a person who is a victim of violence, who has to leave his home, can have support for his or her inclusion and autonomy. Many women end up subjecting themselves, in a more prolonged way, to situations of violence because they find themselves economically dependent on the attacker, because they do not have to pay for a house or because they have no way of supporting themselves. Emotional fragility is very significant and seeking help often does not occur rapidly. It is essential to facilitate such contact, to make the request for help natural and to obtain it. The bill presented by The Greens proposes that the State assume the payment of an inclusion allowance and autonomy, so that victims may have the means to face additional costs that a certain attitude, to free themselves from situations of violence, may lead to the life of a woman. Action is necessary, so that we don't have to cry the death of any more women! [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u98	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In particular, to the Members. Members who have subscribed to these draft laws and who are satisfied with the concern of the victims of domestic violence, we mean that we share this concern and associate with it, even though we differ as to the paths chosen. First, regarding children in the context of domestic violence, it is questionable that these projects are about child protection. They are, yes, on heavier penalties, through one more amendment of the Penal Code. In the current regime, the infliction of psychological abuse on children is already foreseen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u101	In the future, the novelty would be in a kind of presumption that, if one spouse abused the other and with them, for example, three children, there would always be a contest for four domestic violence crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u103	Let's now assume that Antonio and Berta have seven children who live with them and that Antonio hits Berta once and at a time when the seven children are at home. Question : Should Antonio be convicted of eight domestic violence crimes? We don't see how. It is true that we need more new answers and not more old answers and that we are looking forward to the project announced by the government in this area, which must also enter into these various responses within the heritage area to which the ENP bill refers. But it is not certain that the first way to protect children is always to imprison, for longer and longer periods, people with whom they may have emotional ties. Secondly, with regard to statements for future memory, the law already accepts them and the recent directive of the PGR says that the Public Prosecutor is obliged to promote them. Question: What is more about mandatory declarations for adult victims of domestic violence? In the past Parliament, the intention of forcing these victims to testify was sobriety in this Parliament. Do you want to get through the window now what hasn't come through the door?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u105	Between 2013 and 2017, only 4 out of 10 victims of domestic violence who sought APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ) reported and 6 out of 10 victims preferred to remain without State aid because this aid depended on a criminal case they refused. We are not willing to accept that more and more victims are left unanswered, because if you want to make the help they need more and more depend on the need for a criminal conviction which, in so many cases, they reject. These bills have a wrong assumption: that these victims, mostly women, are always unable to make rational choices and need to be forced to contribute to the arrest of the aggressors.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u107	We needed centuries to accept that we could make choices. We have needed centuries to understand that we are not creatures taken away from intelligence, moved only by emotions. We have won the right to vote, to leave the country without permission from husbands and we are here because we are endowed with reason and that allows us to make choices. The victims of domestic violence are given reason, have their own reasons, we need to respect them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u108	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the various bills under discussion, we will enable the bill on the benefit of inclusion, although it deserves improvements in the field of specialty, as well as we will vote in favour of bills that recognize the status of autonomous and differentiated victim, with changes in the Penal Code and the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger. As for the bills that provide for the mandatory taking of statements by the victim, we will vote against, and I will explain why. Individual freedom is, for us, as it is known, a very important factor and certain traumas, such as fear, head, are one of the most inhibiting factors in the exercise of individual freedom. However, it seems to us that forcing, out of the will of the Public Prosecutor, a victim to make statements, even at the stage of investigation, even if he is out of court, against, possibly, his will, is a violence to which we should not subject the victim, because the fear that she may feel alone concerns her concerns and we should include respect for the will of the victim to make statements in those first 72 hours or not. So we will vote against these bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u110	The next intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group is Mrs Sandra Pereira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence is, as has already been said, a social drama and we must be constantly called upon to take all and any measures to eradicate it. And from this point of view, of course, I would like to welcome the proposers, for today, once again, we will be here to have this discussion. Today we discuss the recognition of the victim status to children living in the context of domestic violence, which has been widely debated and which is a concern to be accompanied by the PSD Parliamentary Group. As for statements for future memory, the issue no longer seems so consensual to us. First of all, in terms of the wording proposed to us, we see a contradiction here, since it is proposed that these statements be made by the Public Prosecutor's Office or by the victim and, Mrs and Mrs. Members, of two, one : either is the request or is compulsory. It is that, when it is the requirement, the judge always goes to the court's office and, when it is compulsory, the judge will only do the diligence in accordance with the law and the obligation which the law recognizes him. Therefore, we understand that the drafting of the bills that aim to make mandatory the taking of declarations for the future memory of the victim is confusing and not even achieving, let's say, the objectives that the proponents want. However, speaking of this obligation, the taking of declarations for future memory is an instrument already contained in the law and to us it seems to us that its obligation calls into question the right that assists the victim to excuse himself, in accordance with Article 134. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, when the victim is married or lives in a similar situation with the defendant. In fact, in the past Parliament we had a very fruitful discussion here on this matter. In fact, we are discussing the possibility of the victim always, without recourse to this excuse, and we all conclude, with no consensus — in fact, it was a draft law of the PSD Parliamentary Group and that the PSD withdrew — that the victim's will should be respected and should prevail. Therefore, I ask the Left Block and the PAN what is the difference between the mandatory collection of declarations for future memory and the proposed elimination, against which everyone voted in the previous legislation, the excuse to file trial when the victim is married to the defendant. In our opinion, there is no difference, they are just different forms. In fact, it's letting the window in that which we didn't let in through the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u112	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u113	I'm done now, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against these bills, until this reaches the judicial system — 27 000 complaints per year will correspond to 27 000 statements for future memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u114	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u115	I ask the Left Block and the PAN if they are in a position to ensure that the judicial system has the right to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u116	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u117	In fact, we are no longer responding and, therefore, we have doubts that you can answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u118	The next intervention was Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed a set of projects that aim to combat domestic violence, which, as we all know, is not only a social scourge, it is also a criminal scourge and a scourge in the lives of many and many people who suffer it. It is a crime that has grave consequences, often ending not only in death but in the destruction of the lives of many members of these families. in this regard, the position of the CDS has always been to combat domestic violence and also to call attention that we have often discussed legislative solutions—and legislative solutions are important—but nothing can replace the role that good prevention practices can play in combating this crime, a role that is often much better than making many legislative changes. It will never be too much to remember the good examples of the Julia Space or the experiences of the Metropolitan Port Command, which allowed, in concrete, to reduce, and much, the number of victims, and, in the case of the Port, allowed until there was no mortal victim related to this crime. And that's the main objective. Legislation is important, but the proper application of legislation and prevention are fundamental in this area. So, I'd say we're discussing three categories of projects. First, they intend to recognize the status of victims to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, recognizing the status of victims not only to children who are target of this type of violence but also to children who live in this context and who witness it. We have some doubts about the effectiveness of this model, but we will give you-CL the benefit of doubt and, for us, it will go down to the specialty so you can discuss and understand. Indeed, the experience in the context of domestic violence victimizes children and changes their lives forever. Secondly, the issue of declarations for future memory is being discussed, in which the position of the CDS is known and maintained. We are not in favour of this obligation, because we believe that forcefully forcing victims of domestic violence to make statements against their will will will do them double and not protect them. Finally, as regards the creation of an inclusion allowance for victims of domestic violence who are forced to leave their homes, we believe that improvements are needed in the specialty, but on our part we will make the diploma possible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u120	The next intervention is by Mr António Filipe of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course, concerns about the crime of domestic violence, with its impact on Portuguese society, and the protection of victims are fair. This matter has been debated repeatedly in the Assembly of the Republic and it seems to us that everything that can be done to prevent the practice of this crime and to protect its victims is fully justified and has every reason to be. We understand that there is concern of the parliamentary groups to bring initiatives on this issue, which does not mean that all the initiatives presented are necessarily adequate and that they can achieve the purpose under which they are subject, i.e. that they are the most appropriate legislative amendments to successfully address this problem, particularly those that intend to amend the criminal procedural legislation affecting this crime and the procedural regime to which they must obey both prevention and investigation, or the trial of these crimes, although they are all generous. that does not seem to us that the criminal and criminal proceedings initiatives are adequate to effectively combat the problem of domestic violence. I would begin by referring to those proposals which, on our part, raise greater concerns, such as the obligation to make statements for future memory. In the previous legislation, as has already been pointed out, we objected to a PSD proposal that required the victims to file, even against their will, and, finally, today the PSD recognizes that this would be unacceptable. But we also find it unacceptable that statements should be made for future memory and, indeed, the opinion that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy sent to this House is very elucidative in relation to the perverse effects that this obligation could lead to. The Supreme Council of the Magistracy drew attention to the exceptional nature of declarations for future memory and to the fact that this figure only emerged in our legal order to avoid loss of proof, i.e. only in situations where there was a risk of loss of evidence. We know that then, particularly with regard to sexual crimes, there was an extension of this possibility. But the High Council has called attention to statements for future memory should be exceptional because they contradict a fundamental principle of trial in criminal law, which is the principle of immediate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u122	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u123	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, when there is a situation in which judges can judge without proof production in trial hearing, it can have perverse effects. Mr President, I just want to say that we have some perplexities with regard to these criminal and procedural proposals. As for the proposal submitted by the ENP, the creation of a victim allowance, we believe that it should be made viable, and of course, in the specialty we will follow this with all due attention and commitment. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u124	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u125	Mr. President: I welcome the presentation of these initiatives. It was useful to have an awareness that there is a habit of putting burden on victims of violence — especially women — to whom we are continually encouraging them to avoid violence, to move away from violence, to isolate themselves, and so on. At national level, culturally, there is a normalization of domestic violence and a look at some relativization in relation to the enormous responsibility that aggressors have.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u126	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u127	I would also like to recall that a non-violent existence is an existence in which no one needs to assume himself as a victim.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u128	For a second intervention, on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that on the side of the NAP we are available to find a more consensual solution in speciality. In any case, statements for future memory are important insofar as they aim to repeat the hearing of the victim and seek to protect it from the danger of victimization, in addition to cautioning the genuineness of the document in good time, in accordance with the opinions of the PGR and the Advocates' Order. With regard to the issue of children as victims, there is also the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic that he refers to, and I quote, that there is a « absence of express legal recognition of children as victims of the crime of domestic violence when they experience this context within the family that integrates and when they are present witnesses of that same reality».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u130	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u131	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the relevance of this bill remains. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u132	To close this point, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to children who are victims, I remember that this is a premise of the Istanbul Convention that the Portuguese State undertook to comply with it when it ratified it. To deny the status of a victim to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence is that he does nothing for his protection. To recognize the suffering of these children and to grant them the protection we give to the victims, to the mothers, is, frankly, the minimum of the minimums that we could do in this House, and would make all the difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u134	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u135	I will now finish, Mr President. I recall that domestic violence has been a public crime for 20 years. Therefore, it is not up to the victims to choose their influence on the aggressor’s condemnation. These are not witnesses, they are victims, and these concepts are not serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u136	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u137	I will even finish, Mr President, by telling Mrs Cláudia Santos that, if the PS really believes that new solutions need to be found, then it is in the hands of the PS to approve these projects in the field of expertise, we will discuss, propose changes and find these new answers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u138	Mrs. Members, we are now moving to the fourth item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate recruitment of all educational action assistants and administrative assistants necessary for the regular functioning of the public school, 101 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of educational action assistants, 103 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the review of the allocation ratio and the urgent recruitment of operational assistants and technical assistants necessary for the operation of ungrouped groups and schools and 111 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff. To initiate this debate and present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday and today, there have been several protests in which, from north to south of the country, students, parents, education officers and teachers have claimed the need for better conditions in schools, in particular by hiring workers. We welcome, first of all, on behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, all the communities that fight in defense of the public school, as is the case with the following schools: José Afonso, in the Sixal ; Francisco Simões and Fernão Mendes Pinto, in Almada ; Rodrigues de Freitas and Fontes Pereira de Melo, in Porto ; and João de Barros, in the Sixal, which, in addition to the question of employees, has for years had a very serious problem concerning works. But we can continue to spell out the role of schools that have protested since the beginning of the school year and I will sin even by default by naming the following: José Gomes Ferreira, in Lisbon ; Macedo de Cavalieros, in Bragança ; Montenegro, in Faro ; José Saraiva, in Leiria ; Oliveira Junior, in São João da Madeira ; Martins Sarmento, in Guimarães ; etc. etc. etc. The chronic lack of educational support staff is more than evident and the new portfolio of ratios has not solved this problem. There are fewer than 11 000 educational support workers since 2000, and trade unions estimate that at least 6000 would need to be strengthened to standardise school life and ensure a quality response. The Government has consistently said that there is a great increase in staff, and now it says that the ratios are being met. It is simply not worth saying that it is a reinforcement, when, in most cases, it is about regularizing those who were already working in schools—until many of those who, and well, were regularized via PREVPAP(Special Regularization Programme of the Precarial Links in Public Administration) are practically cancelled due to the number of retirements— or when there are already more than 500 part-time contracts since the beginning of the school year. It is not worth claiming that there are fewer students, because schools remain of the same size, they still have workshops, laboratories, canteens and the latter, they are no exception in the ratio, which is a clear invitation to grant to private people. It is not worth ignoring that workers have aged and lack a proper distribution of work. What you need, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a specific career for these workers, training, wage recovery and an effective fight against precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than the dictatorship of the ratio, insensitive to the real needs of schools, what is necessary and urgent is to hire all the assistants and administrative necessary for the regular operation of schools, of all their educational support services, throughout the hours of operation, which will allow the effective inclusion of students. Even more, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, what can't be forgotten is that there must be full respect for workers' rights and there must indeed be a fight against precariousness, which delays being eradicated from public school. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u140	The next intervention is by Mrs. Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is a fundamental right, assuming a central role in the development of society and in ensuring the realization of other rights. The current situation of public school shows serious deficiencies, particularly with regard to the lack of workers, more specifically educational action assistants, although these are fundamental to the full functioning of educational establishments. The Greens have come to denounce the fact that the education sector is faced with a shocking scenario of precariousness that weakens public school, which is urgent to reverse. It is indisputable that good public services cannot be provided without adequate human resources. It is necessary to recall the attacks on public school by successive governments, with particular emphasis on the PSD/CDS government, which sought to devalue and weaken this fundamental right. The cut in so-called "state fats", so encouraged by those who today cry crocodile tears, had this concrete meaning as to teachers and educational action assistants. The PS is also responsible for this path, because, as much as you say you are concerned, in front of the rights of children and a quality education puts the privilege of the bank. Attacks on the rights of educational action assistants have brought us to the scenario we now know: thousands of full-time professionals in public school are missing, a situation aggravated by the fact that their ratio is inadequate to the reality and concrete needs of schools. We saw another school year that started with a lack of workers. The lack of staff affects the surveillance, monitoring of students, the operation of classroom blocks, sports pavilions, libraries, bars, among others, and particularly students with special needs. This situation of deficiency has also resulted in an overload of work for the educational action auxiliaries, compromising their health, because they are forced to a inhumane effort, and in proliferation of precarious links, low wages and instability. Effective investment in public school is necessary and adequate human resources are ensured to meet the requirements of each school in order to fulfil its role. For this purpose, it is essential to hire educational action assistants and administrative assistants, in order to strengthen these workers who perform indispensable and irreplaceable work in the educational system. The Greens draft resolution recommends that the Government hire the necessary officials for schools throughout the country. Over time, the date set in the project is 2019, when we wanted to say 2020, which obviously will change in the field of specialty if the project is approved. What we really want is for employees to be hired for the proper functioning of our schools by the end of 2020. The Greens will therefore propose that the State budget not only safeguard the hiring of more officials, but also the need to respect their rights and ties, without forgetting the guarantee and strengthening of the training of these workers. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u142	The next intervention is by Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a problem of lack of public school employees and this problem is impossible to deny, because it is manifesting itself in many ways and not even a missing minister can fail to realize that, when he connects television or signs authorization for the hiring of employers, there is a lack of employees in schools. It is a structural and predictable problem because, after the bleeding of human resources that occurred between 2010 and 2015, what remained at schools was a non-teaching body insufficient and aged. The minister will say and the PS will say that the number of operational assistants is on average and therefore the problem is solved, or that temporary replacements are being made and therefore the problem is solved. But the truth is that the Basic and Secondary School of São João da Madeira, when it is within the ratio, has 66 students for each employee. Even if the employee replacement bag that exists now replaces all those who are missing in Santiago do Cacém, they would continue to lack employees. in the same way, with no one sick and no one absent at the Cerceral School of Alentejo, three employees are missing. There is always a lack of employees for one reason: because in schools there is a string of storms called « porteria de racios ». This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth proposal which the Left Block brings to this Parliament on the same issue. The canteens don't count for the ratio. If a school wants to finish the classes early, because it is located in a dark area and does not want students to go home alone in the dark, it loses the right to employees for the ratio. The libraries don't count for the ratio. Laboratories don't count for the ratio. The first-cycle and pre-school schools do not count for the ratio of technical assistants. The outer spaces and gardens do not count for the ratio. So what they say is that when the stationery closes, it opens the bar; when it opens the bar, it closes the stationery. What the ratio says is that the normal thing is that labs are not used. What the ratio says is that the normal thing is that libraries don't have people to open every day. What the ratio says is that students with special educational needs cannot have full-time people, because they count only one and a half per student with special educational needs for the ratio. The ratio chain, which should be the solution, became the problem of the lack of operational assistants and technical assistants in schools and became a time bomb. The Minister of Education has not heard anyone about this time bomb and she now bursts into his hands. The Minister of Education, when he refused to change the gate of relations, stood on the sidelines of the problem. What we propose is the change in the scope and the hiring of employees. What we propose is that the Assembly of the Republic be on the side of the solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u144	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From north to south of the country, there are several schools and families affected by the lack of operational assistants. We are talking about professionals essential to the proper functioning of these. After three months of the beginning of the school year, these needs have not yet been addressed, which shows that it is urgent to carry out a rigorous assessment of the number of operational assistants needed for public school, which is already estimated at about 6000 professionals. Many of these needs are also met by the authorities, who assume this responsibility in an attempt to respond to the difficulties of school establishments. Thus, an additional weight is placed in the authorities, which, in addition to having become systematic in some territories, may introduce some inequality in the way schools overcome their difficulties, becoming dependent on the greater investment or capacity that the authorities may have. Clearly, the criteria for determining the maximum reference allocation for non-teaching staff, which are defined by their respective portfolio and which define the ratio by using a calculation formula, do not respond to needs, are not inclusive and do not assess case by case. For the NAP, the current ratio, as provided for in the portal, is not suitable for the reality of schools, takes account of the number of students but ignores other essential elements, such as the size of schools and the specific needs of students. It is necessary to build a truly supported metric in the reality of schools, in their size, characteristics of the territories and idiosyncrasies of educational communities. Its review is undoubtedly essential in order to ensure that schools have the operational assistants needed to meet the permanent effective needs and thus ensure their regular functioning and, finally, eliminate the constraints that occur annually as a result of these needs and the inadequacy of the ratio. Without prejudice to the evaluation and review of the ratio, given that, in this school year, if they are experiencing disturbances due to the lack of operational assistants, we argue that the professionals needed to respond to these needs should be hired as soon as possible. Moreover, the specificities of the functions performed justify the need for specific training. These professionals deal daily with children and young people and are, in many cases, the first to detect existing problems. Training is particularly important for those who accompany, in schools, children and young people with specific educational needs. For the construction of an inclusive school it is necessary to be accompanied by qualified professionals, since otherwise we are at risk of jeopardizing the health and well-being of children, young people and the educational context itself. On the other hand, the current integration of these professionals into the single category of operational assistants, which brings together a very wide and very diverse set of functions and tasks, from cleaning, safety, to the follow-up of children with very specific and demanding needs, does not facilitate the better adequacy and integration of professionals to the requirements and specificities of school establishments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u146	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. Educational support staff provide indispensable and irreplaceable support, developing their activities in the various sectors of schools. Despite its enormous importance, they are often forgotten, exercising their functions in a situation of great instability, with low wages and without access to training. We also want to improve the professional qualification of educational support staff, giving them better working conditions and other stability. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u148	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past four years, we have become accustomed to starting the school year with schools closed due to the lack of employees. Then, the situation remains more or less throughout the year, with some services closed, or, then, with strikes, challenging the lack of staff. In the last two years, there have been, in fact, two additional pressure factors: on the one hand, the replacement of 35 hours at cruise speed and on the other hand, the Decree-Law No 54 / 2018, on inclusive education, which has increased the needs of employees, either to meet school hours, or to accompany all students who should now be in the classroom. However, it was reviewed the portfolio of ratios and, even if it is being fulfilled nominally—although it is not true that it is being held in all schools—there is still a need for substitutions for causes of life, such as death, casualties or retirements. In the past school year, an invitation to tender was opened for 1600 new employees — who were not, in fact, new employees already in school — which resulted late, not because of the schools, as Mr Minister pointed out, but because of changes to the competition which the Ministry himself introduced in the middle of the game. However, a school contract scholarship was also launched, which did not work for teachers but now seems to be very good for employees, still bureaucratizing what had not to be done in this way. On the horizon for January, there is also decentralization, which means that schools that do not yet have the situation of their solved employees do not know what will happen in January: if they will keep those who already have or if the authorities will fill some shortcomings that still persist. Therefore, for the CDS, the situation is simple: the ratio must be fulfilled not nominal but really, and the replacement must be speedy. It is not necessarily a matter of increasing the number of employees for all schools, but of ensuring that students have schools open during school time and that the services they provide, are catering services, are library services, whatever they are, are open. To this end, there must be transparent processes, so that schools or authorities—when it is time for decentralisation, if they arrive—are effectively able to replace and hire employees and, of course, any of them, schools or authorities, have budgetary allocations for this purpose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u150	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first period of this academic year has been marked by an intense challenge — schools with closed services, closed laboratories, closed canteens, closed gyms and closed sports pavilions. On 25 October, the Basic School of South Penafiel was closed, up to 10 hours and 30 minutes, by parents and employees; on 29 November, there were also strikes against the chronic lack of employees in schools; on 9 December, at the Basic School and High School Rodrigues of Freitas, in Porto, students were together in protest against the lack of assistants. But the Minister of Education, once again, continues to deny reality and incomprehensiblely throws blame on schools and their directions. For PSD, assistants play a key role in supporting and monitoring students. In fact, it is fair to say that, in the full economic and financial crisis, the PSD/CDS government, soon in 2012, hired, for indefinite time, 632 non-teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u152	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u153	... and in 2015 for 1. the cycle passed from the reference of 1 employee by 48 students to 1 by 21 students. The PSD / CDS government, at a time of enormous financial difficulties, has effectively strengthened more than 2500 assistants, who joined the frameworks in 2016, as expected in 2015, at a time when the working time was 40 hours. The left ones, including the PS, said it was insufficient. In 2016, already with the Government of Management in view of the lack of more than 3300 employees due to the shift to 35 hours a week, which you irresponsibly failed to guard, the Government said that the deficiencies were merely residual. A year earlier, in the opposition, the PS said that the effective reinforcement of nearly 3000 assistants was insufficient. It is not surprising that the draft resolutions submitted and today I welcome come from the parties that voted favourably four State budgets and supported the Government and this Minister for four years, which now refers to the need to equip the schools of officials. Some of the proposals put forward fall short of the effective impossibility of resolution. Mrs. Members, put all employees until the end of 2019? Anyone believe? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] In the proposals, there is the recognition by the parties who have supported the government that the relationship chain is not being met, something that the government has always denied. The Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 186 / 2017, which recommended that the Government amend the criteria and the formula for calculating the allocation of operational assistants and technical assistants, was approved, but with the vote against the PS. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the party that supports the government was neither interested in solving this problem, because it believes that the current port would be very good and respond to the needs of schools. Schools are in extreme need of employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u154	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u155	I'm done, Mr. President. At the end of the past legislature, we continued below the functional response level of operating assistants of 2015 and what the government has given to schools since then has only palliatives for someone who is in slow and painful death. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u156	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the parliamentary groups that have brought this matter, but we remember that this discussion is not today and — forgive me for being frank — does not include the numerous measures adopted in the meantime, which, of course, will bring significant changes in schools, valuing professionals from our public school. First of all, we stress the recognized complex process of mitigation of precariousness, this process that allowed hundreds of contests to be held and the regularization of about 4000 links of operational assistants, 111 technical assistants and 1260 senior technicians, such as psychologists and social service technicians, which is unequivocally stated as a huge success of the Socialist Party Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we remember the invitation to tender for more than 1000 employees, allowing each school to use a recruitment grant to supply limited-term gaps. This instrument accelerates substitutions, making them fast and keeping the ratio required.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u158	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u159	But this mechanism could not be sufficient and, for this reason, the deadline for replacement for medical leave from 30 to 12 days was changed in a very simplified way. Today, it is only necessary to make a request, which, after it appears, is unlocked. But let us address the issue of relationships directly. The door was reviewed in 2017, two years ago, and changes were envisaged that were not limited only to the pure relationship between the number of students and the number of operational assistants. It was considered an addition of operational assistants to structured teaching rooms or specialized support in 1. the cycle and for sports equipment, as were also expected assistants for specificities associated with artistic teaching institutions of music and dance. contrary to what was happening in 2011 / 12, we do not have 1 operational assistant for 28 students, we have 1 operational assistant for 22 students, and this is, without margin for doubts, a very significant difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these measures show that the Government and the Socialist Party value public school, value the adequacy of ratios to the specific needs of each group of schools and schools not grouped, value the construction of a school for all, including and with qualified professionals. It is unquestionable that this government, in view of the needs identified by human resources educational institutions, has developed an effort to prioritize the allocation of school groups or schools not grouped with resources essential to the proper implementation of the educational project of each school.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u160	Madam Member, I'm going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u161	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The education system today is less precarious, more tailored to the needs of each school, presenting better ratios per student. The continuous improvement of the system, making it faster, faster and more efficient, is a constant concern and we know that the path we want to achieve will necessarily have a response in decentralization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u162	Ui! They're already shaking the water from the hood!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u163	... because it is in the policies of proximity and in the deep knowledge of the specificities of each of the realities that these concerns will find answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u164	You have the floor, for a second intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a school I recently visited in the Alentejo, I was told one of the people in the direction that schools work well, with all the employees and everything right, only at the « High School of Miracles of Cima », because only by miracle is that a school within the ratio can work normally. In the meantime, something called "new normal" was installed through the portal of ratios. The new normal is the pre-break. The new normal is a school, before the bureaucracy, before the law of the gate of ratios, before the formula, to be within normality, but then, in concrete, to be with the closed library, without officials to open the door, without people to accompany children with special educational needs. This new normal is pre-break, which makes every time someone gets sick or tired, the school enters into a dramatic and desperate situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u167	That is why many of the problems we attribute today to other factors, in fact, can be attributed to the lack of employees, such as problems of indiscipline and insecurity. Lack of employees! We can't let this be the new standard of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u169	Many projects were approved in the Assembly of the Republic on the new portal of ratios. What we have asked the government to do is to comply with them, because they have already been approved here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u170	For the closure of this item on our agenda, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, what has to be said is that there is the desirable one and then there is the real one. And the real thing was this morning at the Francisco Simões School in Almada, for example, we have parents and teachers and students to say that the ratio of non-teachers is 1 to 55 ; or to say that they have long waited for the replacement of a worker who retired without having any answer; or to say that there are low-income workers and that what they were able to do, in terms of replacement, was to hire two hours in part time, one of 4 and another of 3 hours, only and only for cleaning. In fact, it's difficult when the reality goes off with the narrative that was made here. There are problems and they have to be solved. And this is another problem: after the exit of the new gate of ratios, 2500 workers were hired out. There is no effective fight against precariousness. It has to be different!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u172	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u173	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. So what has happened was a wasted opportunity by the government to resolve the matter under conditions and, once again, to prevent the imposition of an economic dictatorship of ratios, which does not respond to the problems of sense in schools. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes point four of our agenda. We move on to point five, which is part of the joint discussion of Lein.o 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the status of the former fighter and amends to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November and the first amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the status of the former fighter and extends the rights of former combatants, former military and disabled of the Armed Forces ( makes the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2002 of 11 February, the first amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January, and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 76 / 2018 of 11 October ) and 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the former fighter, in general, and of the Draft Resolution No 113 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the updated and cross-cutting survey of matters to be envisaged in the creation of the status of former combatants with a view to developing a new own legal regime that meets their specificities and needs. To initiate this debate on behalf of the CDS, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss here the status of the former fighter, the first thing to understand is what is at stake. in a simple word and idea, I stress that, from our point of view, what is at stake is the recognition of the homeland to those who served under its flag, the recognition of those who were in war scenarios or in situations of particular danger, as is obviously due them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u177	It is at least a matter of justice. What is the universe of these old fighters? They are basically the military and former soldiers who were in Africa, between 61 and 75, also in the former Portuguese State of India and even in East Timor, from April 25, 74 until the departure of the Portuguese military. This statute, more than simply recognition, must obviously apply to its content. I mean, what does it have to be in this status? from our point of view, there must be, from the outset and from the outset, recognition of the services provided to the country and the Portuguese nation. Secondly, there must be support in health, which is fair and due, for a universe that is—unfortunately, because time is going on—and it takes time to see this justice being done, and also to supplement or increase the vital pension. We must also know that among these men, even as a result of the post-traumatic stress of war, there are people in more complex situations and there are also — we will talk about this about another matter — who, having been a fighter, having served in war scenarios under the Portuguese flag, is now, for example, living in a homeless situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u178	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u179	I would also like to stress that ex-combatants are all those who now and recently serve Portugal in international missions and humanitarian missions. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that for us, in terms of this matter, the fundamental thing is that this advance is to be made, that this status is created and that, even from a national point of view, and that we have here the Parliament, which represents all the Portuguese people, is to be recognised as a day of honour to the military who have served us, which will obviously be the national day of the former fighter, which must be, from our point of view, on 9 April. This recognition is made and, from this point of view, we have no problem with the methodology. In the CDS we will not vote in favour or against depending on the origin of each of the proposals, we are indifferent. What we want is that the former combatants, their institutions, those who are already on the ground today, regardless of whether they are from one institution or another, have the means and support needed to help those who have to be helped, and we have no problem with that. What is extraordinary, from our point of view, is what the Socialist Party did, in the previous legislature, when there was already a proposal coming from the Government and which was consensual in the Commission when we, the CDS, the PSD, the PCP, the Left Block, were all agreed for that proposal to be approved. And what is the Socialist Party ten? It withdrew it from the vote and prevented this status from being approved. We now know that the government will have a proposal. We don't know her yet, but we know that the government will have a proposal. For us there is no problem: that the Government's proposal should come, that this proposal should come to Parliament and go to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u180	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u181	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. What we want is, not in this Parliament, but in this legislative session, that justice is finally done...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u183	... to those who served Portugal, to those who risked their lives, having many of them been marked forever in scenarios of war. It's time to bring justice to the Portuguese fighters. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u184	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of this initiative is to reopen the discussion with regard to the approval of a status of the fighter that reflects a genuine response to a number of relevant questions relating to these people, covering a universe of 485 000 former combatants who served the country in contexts that we all know very difficult and who live today in very delicate social conditions. This was not possible in the previous Parliament on matters of time and delay in the legislative process. However, it is necessary, in a speedy process and without political use, to give a signal to these combatants that they are not forgotten. The status of the fighter we propose brings together a set of recommendations from the associations representative of the combatants, and it is also intended to constitute an effective contribution to the opening of the discussion, which must be complemented by alternative projects both from the Government and from the other political forces represented in the Assembly of the Republic in order to achieve a single wish: to ensure a significant improvement in the legal framework of the benefits recognised to the former combatants. This initiative is, above all, a document which does not want to take itself as a simple mix of benefits already envisaged but as a legislative building which places effective extension of rights, thus responding to some old demands of the associations representing the former combatants. Examples are the creation of the fighter's card, the increase of the special pension supplement, the replacement of the possibility of cumulative the various benefits and benefits legally recognized, the free entry into national museums and monuments and the creation of a social pass of the former fighter with a reduced cost. It should also be stressed that many of these measures do not have a high budgetary impact, amounting to about EUR 7 million. We stress the importance of the NAP for the existence of a special status for the disabled of the Armed Forces, signing the commitment to try to ensure the preparation of this statute even during this legislature. Finally, but not least, we want that the legal regime for accidents at work and occupational diseases in the framework of the Public Administration should not be applied to ex-military persons who, in the performance of their compulsory military service, have contracted diseases or have seen them worse, when the facts giving rise to the pension or disability occurred before the entry into force of that diploma, and in that case the provisions of the Staff Regulations apply. This last proposal not only echoes an ancient claim by the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies (ADFA ), as a symbol of a fair tribute to Commander José Arruda, recently deceased, who made this one of his last flags of struggle. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u186	The next intervention is by Mr António Filipe of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, at the beginning of the legislature, we re-examine the discussion with a view to the adoption of a statute of the former fighter and the CFP presented a bill specifically aimed at contributing to this discussion, which seems extremely relevant and necessary to us. For a decade and a half, between the early 1960s and 1975s, Portuguese youth was sacrificed in the colonial war. Many thousands of young conscripts, in fulfilment of compulsory military service, had to fight in the colonial war, in which many lost their lives and many returned with physical and psychological sequels that deserve the greatest attention and recognition on the part of the democratic state. All the young people who had to fight in that war are believers, on the part of the Portuguese State, of the approval of a statute that recognizes the sacrifice to which they were forced and which is particularly affirmative with those who have suffered physical and psychological consequences as a result of their participation in the colonial war. Obviously, the democratic state has made progress in recognizing the situation, particularly the disabled in the Armed Forces, but in our view this recognition is far from what these former combatants deserve. They have had good words, especially when there are ceremonies and initiatives, with the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, which is the representative association of citizens who have contracted deficiencies as a result of the war. They have good words and there is no political leader who does not say that they deserve the most attention of the state. What we expect from this legislative process is that we turn from words to good deeds and from good words to good deeds, and from that we hope that this will be the contribution we want to make, which will be approved here in this legislative session, the status of the former fighter. We believe that very particular attention should be given to the disabled citizens of the Armed Forces, and then fully welcome that which is a great claim of the disabled of the Armed Forces, which is not to be applied to them the scheme of accidents at work, i.e. that the application of this regime that has been unfairly applied to them and that they are recognized as the origin of their disability, that they are recognized as disabled by the Armed Forces, which is what they are actually. We believe that injustices created in terms of access to retirement pensions and their complements should be restored. Many promises were made to the former fighters a few years ago, which culminated with Law No. 9 / 2002, which was then misapplied, I repeat, was misapplied, and a fair pension supplement was replaced by what many former fighters consider to be an annual smolding, which they would not deserve. In fact, what they deserved was an acknowledgement of an increase in pension due to the situation to which they were exposed, and that is what we propose, that the application of Law No 9 / 2002 be fully restored. We believe that there is also, from a symbolic point of view, some recognition that these citizens highly value and that the State should effectively recognize, and that this recognition obviously has a material component, a component of health support in all circumstances and that there is also a symbolic recognition for the sacrifice that has been imposed on these citizens. We know that the Government has already put forward a legislative initiative in this House, which has obviously not been scheduled for this debate because under the rules it could not have been. We agree...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u188	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u189	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that we agree that these initiatives can be brought down to the Commission, generally waiting for the Government's bill to be taken into account so that we can all contribute to a just recognition of the former combatants, since it is a recognition to these citizens that the democratic state cannot miss. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u190	You now have the floor to present the initiative of the Socialist Party, Mr Manuel dos Santos Afonso.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a privilege and a great honour for me to be able to speak in the House of Democracy to speak of the former combatants—I am also an ex-combatant. When, in August 1973, I became available in Mozambique after joining a Command Company, I did not think I would be able to be in the House of Democracy today to talk about the status of former combatants. Portugal owes much to a generation of Portuguese and Portuguese who fought an unjust war, but who, in carrying out compulsory military service, honored their military duty, honored their country, honored their homeland. This generation sacrificed a part of its youth, bringing memories, permanent marks and profound consequences for the rest of its lives, resulting from war traumas that they had to face. Thus, the creation of a proper regime that caters to the specificities and needs of the former combatants is recognition and dignity for the services provided, honoring the dead and consecrated the living who fought with courage, self-denial and sacrifice. Also the military that in recent decades have fulfilled international obligations of the Portuguese State, under the UN, NATO and the European Union, on peace missions in territories with armed conflict must be covered by the status of the former combatants. It is therefore essential to create the status of the former combatants and that this process involves the involvement of various departments of the State, involving the governmental areas of social security, health, national defence, public administration and finance. We therefore hope that this will be a clear, robust and sustainable regime, a regime that will respond to the legitimate aspirations of its potential beneficiaries. I want to leave a message recalling past times, which is the following: I was on my land/ They told me you're going to war/ Take a rifle there/ And a ticket pro ship/ And a medal on a thread/ And an old, old hare. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u192	I wanted to ask the ladies. Members who are in intensive and highly diversified circulation in this Chamber to do their best to calm down, if the word comes on purpose, and also to those Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are at the conference, certainly Parliamentary. [[Rice]] [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. I thank everyone and everyone. We are now in a position to hear the speech of Mrs Ana Miguel Santos of the PSD. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is for the former fighters here today in the galleries and also in the Hemicycle. Thank you for your efforts and sacrifice on behalf of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The initiatives we are debating today aim to approve the status of the former combatants, recognizing the services they provided to Portugal, in the military campaigns that took place between 1961 and 1975, but also in later periods, integrated into the national forces highlighted, in the missions of the United Nations ( UN ), the Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. It should also be noted that this recognition also includes ex-Militaries from the local recruitment in the former colonies. For the Social Democratic Party, this is a necessary and unequivocal recognition. This is the recognition that will have to be resolved once and for all without political propaganda and with a serious commitment from all. Portugal has a debt of gratitude to the former combatants who were at the service of our country and who were military to whom the sacrifice of their own life was imposed, without giving them anything in return. [[PSD applause.]] It is not a historical or political assessment of the military campaigns or missions in which they participated. That is, yes, the fair and fundamental recognition of whom you asked for nothing but which you have done so much for your country. In short, for the PSD, the consecration of a statute that recognizes the mission of former combatants is a duty that can no longer be postponed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD today states that it remains available to work constructively, in the specialty, with the other forces that have parliamentary seats and with the Government so that it is possible to find a statute for the former combatants as consensual as possible and to meet the aspirations of all the associations representing the universe of these military. It is clear to us that this statute should be as consensual as possible, but also that former combatants and their families cannot, nor should they, wait any longer. Therefore, the PSD will fight for proposals that represent effective changes in the lives of former combatants and their families. We must adopt a statute which recognises the rights of widows and orphans of all former combatants. The military family cannot be a concept used to fill a simple preamble to a diploma. It must be a reality materialized in concrete measures that represent real changes in the lives of these people. Recognition and homage to former combatants and their families should not be reduced only to free entry into museums or to the creation of cards that require a condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u194	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u195	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. He said that this condition is in the face of each of the old fighters and in the eyes of their families. But more importantly than creating, for example, virtual platforms on the situation of homeless people, we need to create conditions for their own housing, for example, through the creation of a right...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u196	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u197	... of preference to social housing. Let me just conclude, Mr President, with John Kennedy's next sentence in his inaugural speech: «Do not ask your country what he can do for you, ask first what you can do for your country». The former fighters and their families have done a lot for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u198	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u199	Today, it is up to us to tell what our country is available to do for the former combatants and their families. We cannot let time solve this matter. It's time to act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u200	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The phenomenon of homeless people is a complex and extremely relevant issue because of its gravity, because of the failure to comply with the most basic human rights. In Portugal there are more than 3000 people in homeless and homeless situations and more than 11 000 people in housing risk, i.e. many families in non-conventional dwellings such as caravans, homes or friends due to lack of their own housing. Alongside the European agenda for combating poverty and social exclusion in Portugal, we are currently implementing the Strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u202	Madam Member, you are going to let me interrupt, because I believe that your speech is not to this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u203	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u204	I believe that the honourable Member is speaking on the following point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u205	I'm sorry. You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u206	We'll be very happy to hear it, but only after this point is over. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u207	You're absolutely right, Mr. President. That's what you're supposed to be a novice, Mr. President. I'm so sorry. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u208	Mrs. Deputy, mistakes happen to everyone. I'll call you back to intervene at the right time. So if you don't mind, let's give the word to who...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u209	But, Mr President, since we have time to conclude, with regard to the bill of ex-combatants, I would like to say that the NAP does not prevent the Commission from lowering the initiatives, so that there may be a consensus in this House. Thank you again, Mr President, for your alert. [[Congratulations on the PAN and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u210	You're welcome, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Raúl Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debt of gratitude that the country has towards the former combatants has not been properly recognised, despite the fact that some timely legislation, accounting for more than 10 diplomas, which has no longer been merely palliative in the face of perhaps weak awareness of this topic of the former combatants and the needs they have faced and faced. I am also one of the hundreds of thousands of Portuguese who one day were forced to participate, in my case, in Guinea, in a war that should never have existed and occupied several operational theatres.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u213	in these war theatres, many have perished, others have become disabled and others are today suffering from post-traumatic stress of war, causing enormous problems to their families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one here has the monopoly on matters relating to the former combatants and, now that the opportunity has been raised, we must finally be able to fight for a status of the former fighter, finally making justice with the recognition of all those who fought for the service of Portugal. The need to find a matrix that combines existing and added benefits will serve more adequately all ex-combatants who suffer from physical and mental difficulties or economic and social deficiencies, especially those who are in a homeless situation. It is also necessary for the new status to guarantee better material conditions for ex-combatants, in particular by increasing the value of the special pension supplement for beneficiaries of the social security pension, the special agricultural activity regime and the ADFA, the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies. And, in order to facilitate the universe of former combatants, it is important that, in the era of administrative modernization, an exclusive electronic platform be created to better access their rights contained in the new statute. Finally, and given the specificity of this problem, we know that we are tolerant without fail to be collaborators in order to contribute to the realization of the desired status of ex-combatants that the Government also wants to associate with the presentation of its proposal for the status of the fighter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u214	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Justice, dignity and solidarity are values intrinsic to human beings and Portugal, as a democratic country, should take this into account and not go side by side, forgetting or ignoring such values. We all know that most of our former soldiers, now over 60 and 70 years old, have been brutally taken away from their families and their lands by the salazarist regime and forced into an unjust colonial war, which has caused unprecedented suffering, many sorrows and many dead and mutilated on both sides. There are still thousands of former soldiers who have returned with severe sequelae and diseases; hence it is legitimate for the State to do justice to them and to give them due recognition and solidarity. In the past legislature, an opportunity was lost to advance with an effective status for these military. The Government then presented a late and very insufficient proposal, which, in practice, was little more than the compilation of existing legislation. The Left Block was one of the political forces that presented a set of amendments to the proposed statute that met many of the demands of various former military associations. When everything indicated that there would be status, the government, inexplicably, ordered the document to be withdrawn. Everything leads you to believe that it was an order from Minister Centeno. This situation was a kind of cold water bucket and caused enormous disillusionment and discontent within the military and ex-military and their representative associations. At the beginning of this legislature we have what we can designate as a master hit. The CDS takes up the Government's previous proposal and resubmits its words, with more than one or more additions, scheduling its discussion in all haste.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u216	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u217	It was the push with the belly to keep all the praise, in a matter that required a certain serenity and a greater discussion in order to achieve a broad consensus. Fortunately, common sense prevailed and the CDS decided, as other political forces, to bring its proposals down to the National Defence Commission. For the Left Block, there are certainly positive measures to create a single defence counter, a resource centre, a national support centre and even a support plan for former combatants in homeless situations. But really important are other measures, such as the allocation of pensions to these former military and widows, improving the supplement and special supplement of pensions, medical support and medicines and even — why not? Oh, my God! — free of charge in public transport and other services. Special attention should be given to the disabled in the Armed Forces by improving support, without prejudice to these former military men and women who are consecrated in the near future, a grand letter and even a status of the military disabled. Of course, the Left Block, within the Commission, will also present proposals to effectively have a status with as much consensus as possible, as the country and these military very much wish. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u218	We are now moving on to the last item on today's agenda. To present draft resolution No 84 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the right to the citizenship card for people in a homeless situation, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The phenomenon of homeless people is indeed a complex and extremely relevant issue. In Portugal we must be aware that there are more than 3000 people in a homeless and homeless situation and more than 11 000 people in a housing risk situation. This means that many families are living in unconventional dwellings, such as caravans, in the home of family or friends for lack of their own housing. Alongside the European agenda for combating poverty and social exclusion in Portugal, we are currently implementing the National Strategy for Action for Persons in the Status of Homelessness (ENIPSSA), which states that it is based on prevention, intervention and community integration. But in addition to the need for integrated strategies that open up from housing to health, including obviously employment, skills development, among other issues, it is crucial that a strong political will that should call us all and promote new models of action. The NAP has a number of proposals in this area, but what we are bringing here today is the issue of address, a problem that has long been debated, especially by the associations that are on the ground and which support people's daily lives. What seems to the majority to be an easy matter ceases to be when we don't have a house. Of course, we preferred that housing solutions could be found for all people without a roof or with precarious housing, particularly in the context of the options for the State budget. But while we are working on this, there are practical issues to be resolved. For if we don't have a house, a home, where we sleep normally and where our belongings are, we don't have an address for our correspondence. And this has very concrete practical implications and hinders people's access to different support programmes and the exercise of the most basic rights of their daily lives. Even if an association allows the person to give his or her address, such circumstance is not only provided for in the law as the institutional address is not accepted to be entitled to social support, such as the social income of insertion (RSI), for which the presentation of documents is necessary, including the residence certificate relating to the last year, or even to renew the citizenship card. More: how to ensure access to correspondence of courts, hospital consultations, tax authority, among others, what for the user, if not notified, can have very serious consequences that will make his situation of fragility even worse? therefore it is essential to create a housing allocation programme for receipt of documentation, regardless of the postal address may not match the place where the person remains, which may be a postal section, or alternatively a phone number or an e-mail address. With regard to the initiative presented, we must bear in mind the challenge which on International Day for the Eradication of Poverty the Life and Peace Community addressed to Mr. President of the Republic and to Mr. Prime Minister in an open letter asking, among other measures, to be guaranteed « the possibility of postal residence for people in a homeless situation », noting that « not having a postal address is, first of all, an attack on human rights, but above all, a factor of constraint on access to social protection measures ». We do not believe it is correct to encourage people to remain linked to a dwelling that is not theirs, which does not contribute to removing people from the situation they are in. Finally, but not of mere importance, it is emphasized that this theme is reflected in the Housing Basics Act, which in its Article 12. the, enshrines the right to address and the duty of the State to promote and guarantee to all citizens, in particular to persons in situations of homelessness, the right to a postal address, inherent in the exercise of citizenship rights, including the mail delivery service. In this regard, it should be noted that it is crucial that this provision of the Basic Law be put into practice as quickly as possible, which is intended for this draft resolution. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u220	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has been very committed to the inclusion strategy of homeless people. We are fighting for the reactivation of this strategy in 2016, in this Parliament, there was also a public debate that emerged from a Left Block initiative and we have sought that both the state and public bodies of the central and local administration, and associations and organisations that intervene on the ground, or that people themselves in situations without shelter can be part of the implementation of this strategy and its evaluation. We are fighting in the State budget for resources for this strategy and for each public service to identify which allocation is intended for homeless people and their inclusion, we are fighting for the authorities to have answers, particularly in the area of long-term housing and housing, and we have sought to create rules for social benefits, in particular the CSR, to respond to homeless people. In fact, I recall a debate we had in this plenary on a proposal from the Left Block to resume the automatic allocation of the RSI, which was precisely aimed at responding to the situation of people living on the street. In addition, in February we are planning a public session in this Parliament to assess this strategy. Therefore, we are committed to finding all solutions. However, it seems to us that this draft of the NAP is part of a misconception, from the very title itself, which is « The right to the citizenship card for people in homeless situations ». Now, people in homeless situations are already entitled to the citizenship card. Today, any homeless citizen is entitled to the same citizenship card as any other citizen, not a provisional card, is a citizen card. In fact, people who are accompanied by NPISA (Nucleo de Planeamento e Intervention Without Hosting ), by the nuclei that accompany people in a homeless situation, give the address of the institutions that accompany them so that they can have this card, the fregetes can declare economic failure, which means that there is no cost in obtaining the citizen card, the General Deposit Box has a partnership with the Strategy to finance the costs associated with people who are not included in this criterion and therefore we have difficulty in understanding exactly what is being proposed. Another of the NAP recommendations has to do with the computer system for the information sharing of homeless people, but this is already being done for better follow-up by GIMAE (Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Group of the Strategy) and there is an instruction for anyone homeless to be cared for in the social security services, regardless of where their address comes from. On the other hand, the assignment of a different identification card from the citizen card, which would exempt the homeless person from presenting the address on the citizen card, we have a lot of difficulty in realizing its usefulness. Why a different document from the citizen card? What rights would this card allow to access? Isn't this a way to stigmatize homeless people? A document of this type does not solve any problem from the point of view of the RSI, which does not, in fact, resolve here and would not need this type of device.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u223	I shall finish by saying that it seems to us that the homeless population does not need a card of this kind itself, but rather follow-up, of emergency beds, of long-term housing solutions and that is what we should be committed to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u224	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week we celebrated the National Day and the International Day of Human Rights. We have honoured the commitment and dedication of all who do not cease to defend these rights and who continue to promote the equality and dignity of the human person in all circumstances. Today we are once again given an opportunity to debate this important issue. The problem of homeless people, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a central and shocking problem in our society. Without home, without work, without family, without destiny, who falls on the street is obliged to know the misery, the cold, the hunger, the loneliness and a deafening silence. The silence of the indifference of the late state to solve the problems, the lack of housing, the lack of health care, the lack of money, the bureaucracy and administrative obstacles are well-known realities of the homeless and the numerous institutions that daily combat this huge social scourge, institutions to which we have already expressed our recognition. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this problem has been repeatedly denounced by the President of the Republic for at least three years. Parliament is not indifferent to it either and has assigned this week the 2019 Gold Medal of Human Rights to an association that intervenes with homeless people. PSD, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not comply with this reality and has done its part, that is, it has demanded answers from the government and has met with several institutions. Still yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we demand the presence of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security in Parliament in order to address the failure of the government and report the numerous failures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government's strategy to combat the homeless situation is not working and the year of 2019 was dramatic and halted this, including by the President of the Republic. The Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is failing at various levels: at the level of health, housing, information, articulation and allocation of funds. The government continues to reveal its ineffectiveness also in such a delicate and sensitive context as this social scourge is. And if today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the rights of homeless people to an address and a citizen card is because we have not yet been able to solve the problem of homeless people and to find effective and lasting public responses to eradicate this problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to a basic violation of human rights and an unacceptable limitation of the right to citizenship, the lack of an address and the absence of an identification document are a real tragedy that needs to be resolved. If nothing is done, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the homeless will continue to be excluded and prevented from having the right to an identification and access to a set of social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore urgent for the Government to find a solution to this issue arising from the legislation of the citizen card. It doesn't make sense to require the identification of a fixed household to those who don't have it. It is to the Government, which manages and administers the citizenship card, which must find an urgent and technical solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u226	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u227	In conclusion, Mr President, the Government is therefore required to act and resolve this situation. Whether through the paths outlined in this initiative, or through other ways that can be administratively more effective, the problem needs to be resolved for the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Romualda Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the NAP for bringing to the political debate the very issue of citizens in a homeless situation. It is a concern that we share and are absolutely committed to finding new solutions. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which she heard yesterday in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, publicly announced that the issue of homeless citizens is a priority for the Government. The National Strategy for the Integration of Persons in a Homelessness Situation was initiated in 2009 by a PS Government to force until 2015, but in 2013 it was interrupted by the PSD/CDS Government, just when the perception of the increase in the number of homeless citizens was felt. The XXI Government resumed its work in 2016 and reactivated this National Strategy for 2017 - 2023. The Strategy in question has enabled all entities in the field to be mobilized and articulate and to identify the number of people at risk. We are faced with one of the most demanding and most difficult social phenomena because of its multidimensionality and for which there is no single answer to match the multiplicity of situations that lead people to homeless situations. We are sure that there is still a lot to do and we are available for that. However, it has already been possible to identify the phenomenon and characterize the population, there is already a social portrait and a quantification of the so-called 'no shelter', which is an essential process for reading the evolution of this phenomenon. The action plan 2017 - 2018 had an implementation of around 80 % of the activities and the financial execution reached 82, 3 million euros, with more than 16 000 meals per day, 1000 people covered in the projects to reduce damage and 700 people being treated in therapeutic communities of SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ). It is also important to refer to 276 people in the Active Employment Measures programme. If we agree with the NAP in identifying the problems, we do not follow the meaning of the answer. You cannot create a national register of homeless citizens assuming that everyone will be forever and that they will have a sort of second-class citizenship card.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u230	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u231	We need to ensure that homeless citizens who still don't have a citizenship card get it, but so it doesn't contribute to its stigmatization. We need to integrate the answer to this problem into the certainty of wide protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u232	You have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bit unusual in this debate for which we cannot fail to draw attention: we are discussing the problem of homeless people and a proposal about their problems that affects a problem that is far from being the biggest problem of homeless people. The problem of homeless people is not having a home, not having a postal address, until that problem is solved by law. So what makes all the sense to discuss are strategies to solve the problem of homeless people, but that is not why we are called here to discuss with this NAP initiative. Basically, what this NAP initiative is saying is what the Housing Basics Act already proposes as a solution to this problem in its Article 12. where paragraph 1 refers to « The State shall promote and guarantee to all citizens, in particular to persons in a homeless situation, the right to a postal address, inherent in the exercise of citizenship rights, including the mail delivery service. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u235	It notes in paragraph 4 that "People in the homeless situation have the right to indicate as a postal address a place of their choice, even if they do not stay overnight, provided that they are authorized by the holder of that postal address. Do not keep on seeking. ” Still, there are other solutions that are put into practice, as Mr Soeiro mentioned here recently, as the people who give the address of an institution where they are actually welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u237	Therefore, the administrative problem of the postal address is a matter that the law resolves, because indeed the homeless citizen does not have to have a specific identification, which is what seems to be transparent from the draft resolution of the NAP. The homeless citizen has the right to have a citizenship card, just as we have, without any discrimination, and, in the situation where he does not have a home, there must be a solution in accordance with the law—that exists—that he can resort to. Now, what is fundamental is the problem of your coat and that, yes, is a problem that we have to solve. So what the NAP here proposes is basically a false solution, that is, it goes with an identification card that we understand should not take place, because what citizens must have is a citizen card, having an address on that card, according to which the law today foresees that it can actually have.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u239	So what we have to discuss is the problem of social exclusion, it is the situation of homeless people and not the problem of the administrative address of homeless people. We must go to the problem of effective address, where they actually reside and where they can have a roof, where they can overcome the situation of social exclusion. To say they are homeless, but have a specific identification card and stigmatizing your situation is no solution and we do not follow it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u240	For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u241	Mr President, this analysis which has just been made by Mr António Filipe has very important aspects since, in fact, the problems we face for homeless citizens in general are very diverse, very diverse problems. from what is known and studied, from the institutions closest to the homeless — institutions, for example, in Lisbon, such as the Holy House of Mercy and the Community of Life and Peace — the references we have and receive indicate the existence of very diverse reasons for this same situation. I understand what has been said, but not always the situation of homeless people derives only from a situation of economic shortage, not always. Many times there are complex psychological situations, there are complex situations from the point of view of the existence of various dependencies, ranging from alcoholism to drug addiction. There are many things that have often pushed those citizens into that situation which, of course, should concern us and certainly concern us all from the human rights point of view. It is indeed — there I agree — a human rights problem and must deserve the concern of the whole of society as such. Many times, people dealing with homeless people seek to help, seeking to support, still convey to us a second question, which is the fact that it is difficult at times to get closer, the availability of these same people to have such a possibility of integration, such a possibility of social life, as most citizens have in a particular community. This also implies, as has been said here — and well! — a reflection on the strategy. We have heard praise for the strategy, we have heard praise for investment in the strategy, we have also heard criticism, but what I would say is that we have to evaluate this strategy, whether what is being done is enough or not, whether it is possible or not to do more, whether the government is doing all it can. Moreover, from this point of view — let us do justice — Mr President of the Republic has been a permanent alert to this problem, for this matter, and well! , and has placed this issue permanently on the political agenda and on the country's agenda. I understand the concern that the NAP here brings us. In essence, more than the strictly issue of housing, more than the issue of the card—because I also have doubts that there may be a card other than the other cards—the concern that brings us, and I agree with that, is that there are no two types of citizenship, i.e. citizenship is only one and anyone has a right and must have access to the citizenship rights that the country confers on anyone else, on behalf of these same human rights and on behalf of belonging to this community. The concern is fair and correct, the solution needs, perhaps, to be evaluated and to be thought about. But we are not out of this concern, the recognition of citizenship, rights and a concrete strategy to help these fellow citizens who live in such a difficult situation that surely when we face it, we are outraged at all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u242	I believe that there are no more entries, other than the Member of the PAN, who will have the floor to close the debate. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u243	Mr President, very briefly, I would like to say that the problem of homeless people and the stigma that occurs in relation to homeless people stems from the lack of effective policies to combat this phenomenon and this scourge. It is not because of the measures proposed here that we are ostracizing or stigmatizing these people. What is meant, in fact, is that it is allowed to renew the citizenship card, something that does not happen, because the different associations recognize that it is not being allowed to renew the card, given the address of the institutions, an address must indeed be given. What is intended is to allow people to have access, without depending on the institutions, directly to the citizen card. More: the clarification of the concept and delimitation between « housing dwellings» and « residences», for the purpose of awarding support either from the citizen card or from the citizen card, should not depend on an effective address—that is also what the NAP comes here to defend, including, allowing access to something as basic as the right to housing. We do not understand the obstacles that are being lifted by those who have decided to vote against this initiative. That, yes, stigmatizes people! We do not have to be able to come here to defend measures that are not a point of arrival, but they are a point of departure to ensure what must be a wish for all of us: to fight poverty and to remove these people, who are in a situation of extreme vulnerability, from the streets. The associations themselves have also called for the sharing of information and databases. The Minister herself has already argued that there must be a platform and will work it, but until today, and all these years, we still have more than 3000 people living on the street and 11 000 people — 11 000 families, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — at risk of extreme vulnerability. If this doesn't call you to follow this NAP project, I don't know what it will call! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u244	Not this project!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u245	We have thus reached the end of the discussion on point 6 of our agenda. of the next point, point 7, without time allocated for discussion, is the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2020, and we will therefore enter the period of the vote. I ask the services to prepare us for registration in the electronic register. [[Pause.]] I request the ladies and gentlemen. Members who continue to sign up, because the registration of 18 Members is still lacking. Ladies and gentlemen, I think many of them are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u246	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u247	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u248	Mr. President, it's for me to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u249	But can't you register electronically? You'll have to search for a free computer to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u250	Mr President, I cannot register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u251	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha was not able to sign up either. So we have two gentlemen. Members who have not been able to sign up. [[Pause.]] All right, we've got 220 ladies and gentlemen. Member States. Those who have not been able to sign up must point out this fact, but I think they will all be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u253	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u254	Mr. President, it is for registration purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u255	Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD has also just entered the Chamber. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin the voting. We will have a long voting process that largely escapes the essential objectives of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the vote on bills and bills. We have many votes on the most varied issues and the most varied range, so I would like to tell you that, a few weeks ago, at the beginning of this legislature, I called for a situation of political common sense, especially with the concern to dignify the Assembly of the Republic. I have asked for restraint and qualification of these votes, but unfortunately that is not what has happened so far. I have no power to prevent the votes from being delivered and voted on. Today, for example, we have 39 votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u256	It's 43!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u257	...but we had a lot more. Here was a great effort of the Bureau, which I thank, to be able to reduce this number. of these 39 votes, 17 are one only representative of a party —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u258	It's not even here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u259	... I say 17 — with 3 other votes from one single member of a party, which means that more than half of these votes are single Members. So what I just wanted to tell you is the following: in the same way that there is an immediate priority for the revision of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the situation and the status of the sole representatives of parties, and this will certainly be set up so that, in January, we can have a new status for all of these Members, I would ask the Working Group to take care of these issues which also place as an immediate priority, following the first priority, which is obviously necessary and urgent, the question of votes, because this cannot continue like this, nor should it continue, for the benefit of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSP, IL, L and PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, PAN and PEV applause.]] So let's start this task. As is customary, we will begin with the vows of sorrow, which, of course, have a quite different logic. We begin with Vote No 94 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS members ) — I regret the death of Carlos Amaral Dias, who will be read by Ms Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u260	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death on 3 December of the psychoanalyst and Professor Carlos Amaral Dias. Born in Coimbra, on August 26, 1946, Carlos Augusto Amaral Dias was a professor at the Faculty of Psychology and Education of the University of Coimbra (FPCEUC ), a school where he graduated after his degree in Medicine, with specialization in Psychiatry. He was director of the Higher Institute Miguel Torga and professor of the Higher Institute of Applied Psychology, in Lisbon, having collaborated with the Universities of Wisconsin, in the United States of America, and Porto Alegre, in Brazil. He was also president of the Portuguese Psychoanalysis Society and of the Portuguese Psychodrama Society of Group Psycanalithic Psychodrama, vice president of the International Academy of Psychology and coordinator of Nusiaf. Carlos Amaral Dias has also distinguished himself as author of important works, such as Hell We Are We — conversations about children and adolescents, Interpretation Models in Psychoanalysis, Freud Beyond Freud, Bion Today, The Dark Wire of Desire or For a Psychoanalysis of Relationship. In addition to having directed the Portuguese Magazine of Psychoanalysis, Carlos Amaral Dias also developed activity in social communication, with radio programs in Antenna 1 and TSF and regular television comments. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Carlos Amaral Dias, addressing his most sincere condolences to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We passed to Vote No 111 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — To regret the deaths of Firmino Guajajara and Raimundo Guajajara, which will be read by Secretary Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u262	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Firmino Prexede Guajajara and Raimundo Benício Guajajara were murdered on 7 December in the indigenous lands of Cana Brava, in the state of Maranhão, Brazil. In the same attack, four more people were injured. These citizens returned from a meeting with an electric production company, where they were defending their rights, when they were shot from a moving car. Firmino Guajajara and Raimundo Guajajara are members of the Guajajara tribe, known as guardian of Amazonia for protecting the forest. This attack occurred near the area where only one month ago another member of the tribe, Paulo Guajajara, was shot by carpenters. The indigenous peoples of Brazil have suffered a escalation of violence during the presidency of Jair Bolsonaro, which maintains a rhetoric of reducing the rights of native peoples and environmental protection of Amazonia. Conflicts with woodworkers and miners are aggravated, especially since there is a expectation that the Bolsonaro Government will legalize the land occupation done illegally and violently. These attacks constitute an attack on life, as well as on the right to territory, on the ways of life and on the safety of native peoples, and should be cause for concern and condemnation. These environmental activists were murdered to defend an essential asset to all mankind. The attack occurred during the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, COP25, and highlights the need to combine nature's protection with respect to human rights. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the murder of Firmino Prexede Guajajara and Raimundo Benicio Guajajara and conveys its condolences to the Brazilian people and their families. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u263	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u265	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u266	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the CDS, the presentation of a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u267	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We have a third vote, vote No 115 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Carlos de Oliveira and Sousa, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u268	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Carlos Eduardo de Oliveira e Sousa was born on September 6, 1946, in Santa Maria da Feira, son of Domingos Caetano de Sousa and Cacilda Nery de Oliveira e Sousa and died last week. Graduated in 1970 in Civil Engineering by the University of Porto and graduated in Territorial Planning by the Polytechnic University of Madrid, early he began to serve as assistant professor at the Faculty of Engineering of the Faculty of Porto and as secretary of the Civil Engineering Center. He served as a member of the CDS at the Assembly of the Republic by the electoral circle of Aveiro in II, III and IV legislatures. With the awareness of the importance of civic and political participation in the country, he also performed the functions of councillor of the Municipal Chamber of Santa Maria da Feira, a collaborator of the Coordination Commission of the North Region and was the author of several publications, from which stand out the Planning Studies of Between Douro and Vouga and the Lima Valley. Of humanist treatment and personality he marked decisively those with whom he had lost or worked throughout his life. The Assembly of the Republic decided to pay due tribute to Carlos de Oliveira and Sousa, expressing its deep regret and dismay at his disappearance and presenting to the family his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We still have Vote No 124 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of actor José Manuel Lopes, who will be read by Secretary Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u270	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « José Manuel Lopes was born on March 31, 1958. Casapiano, attended the course of Social Anthropology, but soon became interested in the Theatre, participating as an actor in various pieces, among them The Negros of Jean Genet and Life and Death of Bamba de Lope de Veja. It was present at the International Theatre Festival of Loveina, in Belgium, with the play I, Antonin Artaud and at the International Theatre Festival of Sitges, in Barcelona, with a play staged by Adolfo Gutkin dedicated to the myth of Dracula. José Manuel Lopes also collaborated with Luís Miguel Cintra in teaching the discipline of directors at the Higher School of Theatre and Cinema of the IPL (Instituto Politécnico de Lisboa ). As a film actor, José Manuel Lopes has always worked on independent productions: films such as Goodbye Lisbon, João Rodrigues, Interrogatory, by Maria Mendes and José Pedroso, or Longe, by José Oliveira. José Manuel Lopes, not being a well-known figure for the general public, was, however, a highly respected actor by all who belong to the theatre and cinematic environment. After a long career in theatre and independent cinema, 61-year-old José Manuel Lopes unfortunately ends his days, only dying in the tent where he lived. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of José Manuel Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u271	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just appreciated, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to appreciate a vote on page 6 of the vote script, more specifically vote No 89 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD members ) — Greetings to the National Beach Football Selection for the conquest of the Beach Football World Championship. Several elements of this winning team are present as well as the representative of the Portuguese Football Federation, our friend of many years ago, Humberto Rabbit. For them, a greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the normal order of the script, we will vote vote No 79 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Condemning and weighing the negative impact that any international actions can cause the occupied people of Crimea and the sovereign nation of Ukraine. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u272	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u273	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u274	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u275	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 90 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Condemning and weighing three minors in The Hague ( Den Haag ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u276	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u277	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u278	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PCP Parliamentary Group has already made a statement of vote on the vote it has just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u279	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u280	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u281	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u282	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u283	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 91 / XIV / 1. a (as presented by CH) — Of condemnation and sorrow for mothers who died in 2018 due to complications during pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u285	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u286	Mr President, it is to inform us that, on the last vote, we have also entered the Bureau of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u287	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u288	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u289	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u290	Mr President, it is to inform that on Votes Nos 79, 90 and 91 / XIV / 1. a, which we have just voted on, we will enter the Bureau of three explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u293	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u294	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u295	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. She also asks Mrs Cecilia Meireles for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u296	Mr President, it is also to inform that the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u297	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for vote No 80 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) :— Congratulating Autoeuropa and its workers on the success of productivity achieved in 2019. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u298	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u299	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u300	Mr President, in order to be registered, the Left Block will deliver a statement of vote on the last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u301	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u303	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u304	Mr President, with regard to the vote we have just voted on and the others on the same subject, the Socialist Party Members elected by Setúbal will immediately give a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u305	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. On the same subject, we will now vote vote on vote No 110 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Greetings to the workers of Autoeuropa. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and with abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] On the same subject, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 119 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Greetings to the workers of Autoeuropa. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and with abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] The vote on vote No 82 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Congratulations on the end of the use of elephants for tours in Cambodia from 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u307	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u308	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u309	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us vote vote No 84 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP ) — Condemning for North Korea launch of US Thanksgiving projects. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions by BE, the ENP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u310	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u311	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u312	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u313	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u314	I also call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u315	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u316	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u317	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on vote No 85 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Condemnation and solidarity for the conditions faced by the children of Venezuela. The vote was requested by the PS and the Free will. We shall vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the L, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and the PS and the NAP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u319	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u320	Mr President, to say that the vote on vote No 81 / XIV / 1 has not been held. the, presented by the Arrival...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u321	Mr President, I am sorry, but we are in the middle of a vote. We'll see about that. We shall then proceed with the vote on point 2 of vote No 85 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L and votes against the PCP and ENP.]] Mr Andre Ventura was referring to the failure to hold the vote on vote No 81 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Congratulations on the withdrawal of Cuba from the list of friendly countries of Portugal. Mr President, for now there is no list of friendly countries in Portugal, so it would not be possible to withdraw or include anyone and therefore this vote was not presented because it makes no sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u322	It's proof of your incompetence!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u323	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u324	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u325	Mr President, the Bureau's decision is sovereign, there is no appeal. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] The Bureau's decision is sovereign. It is true that the President said that there is no list of friendly countries in Portugal, so no country has been removed from any list. This concludes our discussion on this subject. We may have others on other subjects at various times. We shall then proceed with the vote. Let us vote vote No 86 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Greetings to the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 92 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Celebrating the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and the National Day of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for vote No 105 / XIV / 1. a (presented by L) — Greetings to people with disabilities: by the right to difference. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 117 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Greetings by 27. the anniversary of the proclamation by the United Nations, of December 3 as the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u326	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u327	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u328	Mr President, it is only to confirm that with regard to the vote on vote No 105 / XIV / 1. the purpose of the CDS vote was abstention and we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u329	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Greetings by 1. December 1640. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u330	The day he's already on vacation, unlike when the CDS was a government! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u331	We will now vote for vote No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PS Member ) — Congratulations on the social importance developed over a century and a half by the Monsenhor Airosa Institute in Braga. This title does not make much sense in terms of Portuguese, but we shall vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and votes against BE.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 93 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Greetings by the International Volunteer Day. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for vote No 116 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Greetings by 34. the anniversary of the proclamation, by the United Nations, of December 5 as the International Day of Volunteering. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 95 / XIV / 1. a (presented by CH) — Concern about the fragility detected by the Court of Auditors' audit in the effectiveness of municipal plans against rural fires. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions to the EPC, the ENP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u332	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u333	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u334	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u335	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on vote No 96 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Repudiation of the results of the 2018 PISA Report. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, with votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and with abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u336	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u337	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u338	Mr President, it is to inform us that we have also submitted to the Bureau a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u339	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for vote No 97 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Of condemnation and concern with the prestige of democratic institutions for the political use that was made around the presence of Greta Thunberg in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, CFP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u340	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u341	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u342	Mr President, it is once again to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u343	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 98 / XIV / 1. a (as submitted by the CH) — Rejection of the Minister of Finance's blockade to the hiring of more effective police officers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP.]] We proceed to the vote by another vote, now vote No 99 / XIV / 1. a (presented by CH) — Disclaimer for the prohibition of hiring new doctors and nurses. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and with abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the ENP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u344	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u345	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u346	Mr President, on the vote on this last vote, as well as on the previous and the next one, we have also entered the Bureau of explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u347	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u348	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u349	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u350	Mr President, it is to announce at least one more statement of vote for a summary explanation of these explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u351	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u352	I also call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u353	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u354	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver two explanations of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u355	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 101 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Condemnation for the aggression of a pregnant teacher in Marvila. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions to the EPC, the ENP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u356	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u357	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u358	Mr President, it is in order to inform the House that we will deliver explanations of vote on the votes of the 98, 99 and 101 and on how the vote is going on what should be bill, if you want to change something effectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u359	That is no longer a statement of vote, but it is finally recorded, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u360	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u361	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u362	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u363	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 102 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by CH ) — Condemning the price of passports in Venezuela. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote by another vote, in this case, on vote No 103 / XIV / 1. a (presented by CH) — Of condemnation and concern for the end of the cost-benefit analysis in PPPs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and the ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u364	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u365	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u366	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP has delivered a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u367	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u368	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u369	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u370	Mr President, it is to announce that we will issue a declaration of vote on this vote, because Parliament has legislative competence in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u371	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 104 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Congratulating the 71st Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 106 / XIV / 1. a (as submitted by the CH) — Repudiation of the statements by the Minister of Health on the failures in access to medicines if they are due to globalisation. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, with votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and with abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 107 / XIV / 1. a (as submitted by CH) — Of conviction and concern for the delay in reimbursement of ADSE to beneficiaries. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[Right now, there was a burb in the room.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to silence the Bureau a little bit. We turn to the vote on vote No 108 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CH and signed by 1 PS Member ) — Congratulations on the distinction between the Azores and the certificate of sustainable tourist destination. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE, the CFP, the ENP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u372	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u373	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u374	Mr President, it is to inform that we will deliver two explanations of vote on Votes Nos 107 and 108 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u375	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u376	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u377	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u378	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u379	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on vote No 109 / XIV / 1. a (as presented by CH) — Congratulations on the presence of four Portuguese universities in the ranking of the top 100 in the world of the Financial Times. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions to the EPC, the ENP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u380	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u381	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u382	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u383	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue to vote on vote No 112 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemning the Government's receipt to Mike Pompeio and Benjamin Netanyahu. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 113 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Welcoming the call for an OECD report to end grants to fossil fuels in public development aid and the decision of the European Investment Bank to follow these recommendations from the end of 2021. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, ENP, IL and L and with abstentions from the CCP, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 114 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Greetings of the International Day against Corruption. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 118 / XIV / 1. a (presented by L) — Greetings for World Soil Day. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and L and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u384	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u385	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u386	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote, one more, with regard to this last vote, which will enter the Bureau today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u387	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 120 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Greetings to 40. the anniversary of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 121 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Congratulations on the international recognition of the tourism sector in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and L and the abstention of the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u388	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u389	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u390	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u391	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u392	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u393	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u394	Mr President, it is to inform us that we have already entered the Bureau of a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u395	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue to vote presented by the Free, whose title is a little strange, but I understand its political objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u396	With regard to this vote, you can already vote, there is no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u397	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 122 / XIV / 1. a (presented by L) — Greetings to Portuguese and Portuguese born in Portugal without Portuguese nationality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u398	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u399	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u400	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u401	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 154 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic abroad during the month of December. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now proceed to the joint vote of the requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for 90 days of Bill 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthening the protection of lawyers in relation to parenthood or serious illness, amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 109 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — regulates labour relations in counseling and 113 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Gives lawyers the prerogative to suspend judicial proceedings in which they are agents or informal defenders in the event of serious illness or exercise of parental rights. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The PS, BE and PAN bills go down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, so they are no longer voted today, as is evident. We turn to page 15 of the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u402	Mr President, the last vote on page 14 is missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u403	Page 14 presents various bills of law, PS, the Left Block and the PAN, which were exceeded by the vote of the requests. There is, then, a version of the script that I do not know. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u404	Mr President, if I may, Mr President still has the previous version of the vote script. Therefore, we must resume the vote on draft resolution No 83 / XIV / 1. a, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u405	We are talking about it, only in the script I have the Resolution Project No 83 / XIV / 1. the is on page 15 rather than on page 14. We're all very tired, really. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 83 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a truly national and territorially fair mobility support programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u406	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u407	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u408	Mr President, it is to announce that I intend to make an oral vote on the vote on this draft resolution at the end of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u409	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 102 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the effective implementation of the Tax Reduction Support Programme (PART) throughout the national territory. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, the votes against the PS and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u410	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u411	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u412	Mr President, it is to announce that I and Mrs Sara Velez will deliver a written vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u413	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 104 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Effective promotion of collective transport throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and abstentions to the PSD and the CH.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 107 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government study and develop conditions for increased deductions of transport charges to taxpayers resident in inland territories. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, ENP and L were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and CH and abstentions against the PSD, the PAN and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u414	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u415	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u416	Mr. President, on this issue concerning transport passes, the only draft resolution approved was Draft Resolution No 102 / XIV / 1. the left block. Therefore, since it is the only one, and in view of the rules in force, it makes no sense that he goes down to the committee, because it makes no sense to merge himself as a text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u417	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u418	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u419	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u420	Mr President, it is to be announced that we will present on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group a statement of vote on the vote on draft resolutions Nos 83 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 102 / XIV / 1. a ( BE), 104 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) and 107 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u421	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote for a request, submitted by BE, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 90-day vote of Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) - Change the Law of Nationality and the Rules of Procedure of the Registers and Notariado ( the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and the thirty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( 9 ). the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, the votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the application of the principle of jus soli in the Portuguese Nationality Act ( the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Law of Nationality ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L and votes against PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and 3 PS (Philipe Neto Brandão, João Ataíde and Marcos Perestrello).]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u422	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u423	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u424	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u425	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u426	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u427	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u428	Mr President, it is important to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a declaration of vote on draft Law No 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u429	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let's now vote, in general, Bill No. 126 / XIV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and IL and with votes against BE, PCP, ENP and L.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote together on requests submitted by the CFP, the NAP, the EB and the ENP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a vote for 60 days of the Drafts of Law No 37 / XIV / 1 respectively. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to promote durability and guarantee of equipment to combat programmed obsolescence, 116 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, 119 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the guarantee period for the sale of mobile consumer goods ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April ) and 120 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Increased durability and expansion of the guarantee for movable and immovable property ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to extend ADSE to all Portuguese, whether or not they have a working link to the State. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 92 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the sustainability of ADSE. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u430	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u431	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u432	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u433	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote together on requests submitted by the NAP, the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the BE, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, respectively of the Lein. 52 / XIV / 1 Projects. a (NAP) — Privilege the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, except the decree of this regime to cases of child abuse, neglect and domestic violence, 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Alter the Civil Code, establishing the principle of alternate residence of the child in the event of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of the marriage of the parents, 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The seventh amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, in order to clarify that the court may determine the alternate residence of the child with each of the parents whenever such corresponds to the best interests of the minor, 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of the alternative residence of minors, in the event of divorce of judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage and 114 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Civil Code, providing for the alternative residence regime of the child in regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No. 21 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Change Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February in part concerning the timing of the removal of asbestos in buildings, installations and public equipment. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the abstention of the PSD.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 108 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Updates asbestos listing in public buildings, facilities and equipment and makes public the respective monitoring schedule and corrective actions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 115 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines the removal of products containing asbestos fibres still present in buildings, installations and equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 122 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal and eradication of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 96 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently draw up a plan for the withdrawal of all asbestos materials in public schools. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against PS and the abstention from CH.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government make public the list of buildings containing asbestos where public services are provided and the complete schedule for removal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the L and abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 110 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented to the European Union with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, the introduction of a line making asbestos removal operations eligible in public buildings. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L, votes against CH and abstention from IL.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government resolve persistent delays in the processing of pension pensions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and votes against the PS.]] This diploma therefore falls to 10. the Commission. We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt all the measures and procedures necessary to resolve the problem of delay in processing, award and payment of various social benefits, including old age and disability pensions, survival and other death benefits. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and votes against the PS.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 106 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to reduce the response period of the National Pension Centre and ensure timely access to old age, disability and survival pensions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 109 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to take measures to eliminate any remaining constraints in the processing of pensions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the L and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence as victims of this crime (the sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims and the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, ENP, IL and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and 3 PS Members (Elza Pais, Maria da Graça Reis and Sonia Fertuzinhos).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u434	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u435	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u436	Mr President, that is to say that I myself, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos and Mrs Graça Reis will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u437	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u438	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u439	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u440	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u441	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 2 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Making it compulsory in cases of domestic violence to collect statements for future memory of victims ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of victims). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstentions against PCP and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u442	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u443	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u444	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver explanations of vote on draft Law Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 2 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) as well as with regard to the votes of Bills Nos 92 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and 93 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), which we will carry out immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u445	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 92 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and 3 PS Members (Elza Pais, Maria da Graça Reis and Sonia Fertuzinhos).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u446	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u447	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u448	Mr President, with regard to this vote, I and Mrs Graça Reis and Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u449	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u450	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u451	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u452	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u453	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We are going to have a very long Diary of the Assembly of the Republic, with so many explanations of vote, and I hope they will be delivered. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u454	With dematerialization only the eyes are ruined!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u455	We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 93 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Making declarations for future memory mandatory at the request of the victim or the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PAN and L and abstentions against the PCP and the ENP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 123 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creation of allowance for victims of violence who are forced to leave their homes. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the L and with abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate recruitment of all educational action assistants and administrative assistants necessary for the regular functioning of the public school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 101 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of educational action assistants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 103 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government review the allocation ratio and the urgent recruitment of operational assistants and technical assistants necessary for the operation of ungrouped groups and schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 111 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u456	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u457	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u458	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present explanations of vote on draft resolutions 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 101 / XIV / 1. a (PEV), 103 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 111 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u459	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the joint vote on the requests made by the authors of the diplomas, asking the National Defence Commission to be discharged without a 60-day vote of the Lein Projects 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and amends the seventh Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November and the first amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and extends the rights of former combatants, former military and disabled of the Armed Forces ( makes the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2002 of 11 February, the first amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 76 / 2018 of 11 October ) and 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant, together with Draft Resolution No 113 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the updated and cross-cutting survey of matters to be envisaged in the establishment of the Statute of the Former Fighters with a view to the development of a new own legal regime that meets its specificity and needs. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All these diplomas therefore fall to 3. the Commission. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 84 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the right to the citizenship card for persons in situations without shelter. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u460	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u461	Mr President, I am counting whatever it is, but do it in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u462	Mr President, I do not want to spoil the suspension, but it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 84 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u463	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We proceed to the vote on the budget of the Assembly of the Republic by 2020. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and with abstentions from CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u464	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u465	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u466	Mr President, that is to say that I will give a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u467	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary programme for the hiring of health professionals for the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u468	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u469	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u470	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the draft resolution which has just been voted on. On the other hand, I take advantage to announce that we will also present statements of vote on the two subsequent votes of the Draft Resolution Nos 55 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u471	It will then be announced in advance, Mr President. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 55 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recruitment of more professionals for the National Health Service, according to the law for strengthening the autonomy of the institutions and the new Health Bases Act. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the L, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the IL.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 112 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service in the hiring of human resources. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the L, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the IL.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u472	We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 52 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the establishment of a national control plan for the invasive water plant. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 58 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Action plan for water basin control. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 130 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national action plan for the control of the invasive water plant to ensure its removal and recovery of the ecosystems affected by it. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to finance all applications deemed eligible in the Support Programme for Arts — Biennial 2020 - 2021 and the urgent revision of the model of support for arts. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u473	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u474	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u475	Mr President, it is to inform us that, on this vote, we intend to make an oral vote. Mrs Ana Mesquita will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u476	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, paragraphs 109 and 110 of the Diário are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 4. the Legislative Session of the XIII Legislation. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. The period of oral explanations of vote is now followed, and the first is for Mr. Carlos Peixoto and concerns draft resolution No 83 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). Mr Peixoto has the floor for this purpose, and I ask you to hold it up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u477	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is good for the parliamentary left to be aware that the vote against the reduction in the value of the tolls of the former SCUTs left outraged, disappointed and disappointed throughout the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from the PS and the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Well you can make the flowers you want with the installation of the State Secretariat of the Valorization of the Interior in Castle White that no one knows very well what it has been for! Well, you can send out the rockets you want when you install State Secretaries in Guarda, Bragança and Castelo Branco! Well the Minister of Territorial Cohesion may have said yesterday, as I said, on a radio in the Guard, that he is ambassador of the reduction of the value of the tolls, when you arrive here and, at H time, when necessary, when you have to decide with red, with courage, with consistency, when you have to help people from the inside, you have to turn your back on them! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from the PS and the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] They don't have the courage to do what they're propagating out here! The gentlemen yell over there, but here they are ashamed. You promise out there and in here, you don't. You guys create expectations out there and inside you fall your mask! [[PS and BE protests.]] Territorial cohesion, for you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the whole left, it is only useful to fill the mouth, to send rockets, to the circus, to the stage, because in practice what you want is that the country remains unequal and asymmetric! This is what the PSD deeply hurts and that is what you must not continue to do in the future. At least now they have been consistent, because in the past they have made a bad figure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u478	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u479	I'm done now, Mr. President. The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party made a bad point of ordering Members of some districts to be brought up when the vote on other districts was at issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u480	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. I asked for restraint and I will demand such restraint. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u481	Now, at least, they were consistent, but they were consistent in evil, in ashtray and in harm to the interior of the country! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u482	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u483	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u484	Mr President, that is to say that I have already been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u485	It is recorded that Mr. André Ventura is here. You now have the floor to give an oral vote on draft resolution No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u486	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, with the vote against the PS and the Liberal Initiative, with the abstention of the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival, the artists, the companies, were left without a response to support all eligible applications under the Sustained Support Programme, to prevent those not eligible from disappearing from the map and to review what is a model for supporting the failed arts. [[CH protests.]] The relatives would not fall in the mud if they recognized their mistake, but preferred to persist in it. What solutions will be found, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to give an answer to a constitutional right that is creation? The PCP won't give up. It will continue to fight for a true public service of culture, in which this model that exists today becomes, indeed, a thing of the past. A model in which those who today provide a public service of invaluable value in culture do not have to subject themselves to the permanent humiliation of starting everything from zero every time they apply for a contest, a contest and a contest. A model to defend the dignity of those who work in culture against precariousness, so that no one else dies cold, in a tent, alone, there in Sintra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u487	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u488	... because he was condemned to live in the stream of precariousness, which did not allow him a fair and dignified contribution career. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u489	What a demagogy! What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u490	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u491	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Resolution Projects n. 164 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of protective measures of the Estuary do Sado and 166 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government allow the full implementation of the 2019 budget allocation for staff costs of the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-12.u492	The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 18 December, at 3 p.m. and will include political statements. Good weekend votes and good work for all. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 43 minutes.]]
