ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we enter today's agenda, the Government's appeal No 32 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — On science and innovation, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to the Drafts of Law Nos 1239 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive No 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic information and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1240 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the name « Union of Freguesias de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá » in the municipality of Viseu, to « Freguesia de Fail e Vila Chã de Sá », which falls to 11. the Commission. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 2232 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out works at the Francisco Simões Basic and Secondary School in Laranjeiro, and launches competition for the construction of the sports pavilion, and 2233 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — The integration, without salary loss, of the procedural recovery supplement in the salary of the judicial officers, which goes down to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u3	Let us, then, initiate the Appeal to Government No 32 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — About science and innovation. There is a stage of openness, I give the floor to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla for an intervention by the Inter-Parliamentary Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Near the end of this legislature, it makes every sense to analyze the results of the government's bet on knowledge and innovation, which changed and what impact this change will have on how we will face emerging challenges and opportunities. Technological, social and environmental challenges are enormous. The impact of climate change, artificial intelligence, ageing and increasing inequalities are subjects that attract the attention of a large number of citizens—and not only young people—to this outside world, and also currently attract the concern of many parliamentarians and rulers. Portugal, fortunately, is no exception and emerges at the forefront of these debates. For me, some of these topics are old. Already in the 1970s, in Berkeley and later in Porto and Matosinhos, he organized symposia on the planetary impacts of demographic growth and climate change. It was too early. Many did not believe in the risks to the human species and to the planet. in one of these symposia—I remember—in Serralves 25 years ago, Mário Soares asked at the end: "O Professor, won't you be exaggerating? I'm out of here crushed." We know today that the opportunities to avoid the negative consequences and to improve our quality of life and that of the planet are enormous. However, although many of the solutions are known, not always the political will to implement them follows at the same pace and the reasons for this breakthrough are widely known. The problems are complex, the dialogue between areas other than knowledge is difficult, the stakeholders are varied, the sharing of responsibilities requires commitments, and all this takes time. Changing behaviors, when sacrifices can be great and the uncertain benefits, was never easy. It is precisely about this time that I would like to take a look at. As has already been said by many, Portugal today has nothing to do with what was before 25 April, when illiteracy was around 35 % and only a tiny fraction of the population had the qualifications needed to participate in the construction of a better future. But after our entry into the EEC ( European Economic Community ) in 1986, there was a brief period in which we moved away from the extraordinary road of convergence to Europe, which is a path to this journey in many areas, including clearly that of knowledge. The reasons for this departure and the devastating consequences of this process in the lives of many Portuguese are widely known. Hundreds of thousands emigrated looking for jobs in this world outside to fulfill their dreams and, among them, many researchers, engineers, doctors, architects, nurses and teachers. But the confirmed data of the last three years, which begin with the beginning of this legislation and of this government, also clearly show that it is possible to re-converge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Total expenditure on research and development reached close to EUR 2, EUR 8 billion in 2018, i.e. 1, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) and a growth of more than 20 % compared to 2015. It is worth emphasizing that this growth is particularly significant in the business sector, reflecting its efforts to monitor the scientific development and technological capacity installed in Portugal. Another key element of this « reconvergence » is the strengthening of human resources in different areas of knowledge, which reaches 10, 9 people, or TSI ( full-time equivalent ), by 1000 in the active population, an increase of close to 20 % here as compared to 2015. In the middle of this month, and since January 2017, some 5200 doctoral researchers and teachers had already been hired, excluding contracts by companies, whose process is in the final phase. But these are numbers, which are important, no doubt, but I suspect that everyone remembers what Mark Twain said about the manipulation of statistical data. Much more relevant are the lives that have been transformed in this period and I confess that it was gratifying to find, on a visit made days ago to a biotech company with enormous dynamism, located in Tondela, a young woman in front of the laboratories of microbiology and molecular biology that, when she saw me, asked: "Teacher, do you not remember me? I graduated from his school and became a teacher in his school.’ She explained to us that 80 % of staff are qualified in this company and that the current difficulty is in hiring unskilled staff. As she has found today, thousands of young professionals who have found their place in Portugal. The pessimism that invaded the country recently practically disappeared, confidence in the future has increased brutally and, with it, of course, also our demands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, many of those who would be scattered by this outside world are in the port, in Braga, in Coimbra, in Bragança, in Vila Real, in Aveiro, in Lisbon, in Évora, in Beja, in Faro, in the Azores and in Tondela, working in the most varied areas of knowledge and innovation. It will not be surprising that the report of the European Innovation Panel, published last week, places Portugal first in the group of « moderate innovation », to a few tenths of the group of « strong innovation ». The launch of new institutional arrangements, bringing together scientific and academic centres with the productive sector, in the form of Collaborative Laboratories and the ongoing renewal of Associate Laboratories are clear examples of the diversity of R & D (research and development) strategies installed on the ground. And I could add countless examples to illustrate what has changed in an undisputed way. These results clearly show the political priority given through various resolutions of the Council of Ministers, in particular the 2016 Knowledge and Science Commitment, as well as the 2018 Technology Innovation Strategy. All this always in the context of very strict budgets. And so important, or perhaps more, is that this result is not only recognized within, but also outside the country. In many of these areas, Portugal is being carefully observed by the most varied funding agencies and by many companies that have come here to install and that commend the progress achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u6	Of course, for many of those involved in this construction, this process should move forward more quickly. It's natural, I'd say even healthy, so be it. Some would even like their domain of knowledge and the resolution of their problems to be a priority — it is more than understandable. However, we all know that changes in any R & D system, to be transparent and credible, require time. The recent evaluation of research units clearly illustrated this. For many, waiting was frustrating, but previous experience required increased care. I would like to finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Minister, recalling some important aspects of today. Looking around, it is found that the political and social situation in many countries and regions — the United States, Britain, China, India, Italy, Poland, Brazil, Russia, Venezuela, the Middle East, Africa and so many others — leaves much to be desired. Even when the economy grows, I doubt that many want to educate their children there. And we all have the clear notion that the national and international press sells failures better than successes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, at this moment, Portugal is seen by many as an interesting and surprising success experience. Trust in the R & D targets for 2030 seems fully justified. I'd like to leave two warnings. Overconfidence is dangerous! We have achieved a lot, but we still have many challenges ahead, at local, regional, national, European and planetary level. And I suspect that in the future, whether we talk about R & D or about knowledge and innovation, given that we live on a finite planet, with limited capacities, we should focus our attention not so much on quantity and numbers, but more on quality, responsibility and ethics and give time for choices to be carefully evaluated and implemented. I end by thanking all those and those who have passionately dedicated themselves and dedicated themselves to advancing the borders of knowledge and innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u7	At the opening stage, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, to whom I take advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Quintanilha: I thank you for the reflection that has been made and for the interpellation, as well as the opportunity that you give us to clarify the facts, the numbers and, above all, to make an increased reflection on our challenges. Looking at the last four years, we have the ambition to think about the future, certainly, as well as well exposed, with the humility to perceive our position in the world, but always also with the ambition to do more and better. Over the past four years, we have fully recovered investment levels in research and development, once again reaching the 2009 and 2003 maximum values. This implies that we were able to recover by 35 % the overall volume of public and private expenditure; we recovered EUR 500 million in the public and private sectors, but with a particularly significant increase in the private sector, where the recovery and growth of research and development expenditure was over EUR 360 million. This recovery enables us to stand in the European context, as I said, in a totally different place and, today, Portugal is considered an innovative country. When we look at the data published by the European Commission on 17 June, it is important to reflect on its meaning in the position of Portugal and Portuguese in the European context. Portugal is today the country with the highest intensity of innovators, according to the European Commission, above all has an attractive research system and also facilitates an environment in the terminology of the European Commission, « friendly to innovation ». These three indicators, in the integrated set of the 27 indicators that make up the so-called European innovation scoreboard, allow us to have a completely different position and that is, above all, in accordance with the data published this morning by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics, which shows the ranking of the 100 companies with more research. Compared to the 2015 figures, we strengthened the largest companies — today we have over 10 companies investing more than EUR 10 million annually in research and development — and all 100 companies investing more than EUR 1, 5 million in research and development. In addition, of course, while we had fewer than 1000 companies reporting on research and development in terms of tax incentive policy five years ago, this year we had an increase of 18 % and more than 1600 companies reporting on research and development activities. That is to say, we have strengthened our largest companies in the European context and we have completely opened up the range of companies, especially in terms of strengthening engineering, telecommunications, precision mechanics, pharmaceuticals and fine chemistry, but also in terms of financial services. Today, we have a wealth and an economic structure that gives us clear confidence in progress. at the same time, we have strengthened the public system and the numbers are clear, especially in terms of employment. The 2018 statistics show a growth of about 8000 researchers when quantified in full-time equivalent, representing more than 20 000 researchers, in number of people. Again, the increase is, above all, in the private sector, with 4000 new researchers, representing more than 10 000 people. But these results do not appear by chance. These results are certainly the effort of many people, of many actors, public and private, of new relations, especially scientific, technical and business, and a new relationship between the research sector and the Public Administration, but they are also the result of a political option—and this is particularly important. What we have done was to redirect scientific policy in order to make it clear that it is with the strengthening of territorial cohesion and competitiveness policies that can be converged for Europe. The confluence of efforts between cohesion, competitiveness and European convergence can only be made with more knowledge. These four vectors — cohesion, competitiveness, convergence for Europe and knowledge — which have encouraged us and which should give us the ambition to grow more, to do more and to implement the 2030 strategy, extending the range of digital skills. The facts are clear, seen also from Europe or the world. Even earlier, the European Institute for Technology and Innovation opened the first pole in Portugal, in Braga. A week ago, in the Azores, we organized the second summit of the new space industries, bringing together an undeniable range of large investors, and four major proposals were submitted for a future space port in the Azores. And this is not just an Azorian or Portuguese project, it is a great European project, which will enable us to project, above all, in the context of climate change. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the European Commission and the World Economic Forum point out above all three critical factors for sustainable development: on the one hand, the best commitment between economic development and the preservation of the environment; on the other hand, the need for an institutional innovation effort with, above all, collaborative arrangements; and on the third hand, the need to strengthen new observation mechanisms, especially with satellite information. Therefore, at European level, we are causing a radical change in how future space industries can be elements of territorial cohesion and, above all, of observation, in order to facilitate a better compromise between economic development and the preservation of the environment. That is why, two weeks ago, the European Space Agency agreed with the International Centre for the Research of Azores for the Atlantic to install the first ESA laboratory ( European Space Agency) in Portugal, based in the Third. It was also in this context that the European Commission approved the two Portuguese proposals to install two major supercomputers in Portugal and the Iberian Peninsula. The supercomputer installed in the Mine will perhaps be the first computing infrastructure fully supported by renewable energy sources. With this we are, at the same time—and looking at the process of digital transformation—to achieve a better commitment between economic development and, of course, environmental preservation, strengthening knowledge as a public good. We therefore need a clear political option, which understands that territorial cohesion and competitiveness are being combined with an effort of European convergence and with more knowledge. By giving knowledge and opening up knowledge to all, we have developed, at European level, an open science strategy in terms of access to knowledge, but also, above all, in terms of the relevance of knowledge in job creation, while enabling everyone to participate in this strategy. We will completely alter the concentration of the level of funding to extend it to a national strategy that reaches all Portuguese — from Bragança to Fundão, passing through Faro and certainly also in Lisbon and Porto — by strengthening the best we do, but above all by giving everyone an opportunity to understand what scientific excellence is and what are the economic benefits of knowledge. The growth, above all, of the investment of companies throughout the country, from Bragança to Faro, shows that it is well worth investing in knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u9	Mr Alexandre Quintanilha, Mrs Nilza de Sena was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla — whom I welcome — we have heard Mr Minister quote, during his speech, the European innovation scoreboard. We know that every year we have a comparative analysis that shows us the evolution of both the countries of the European Union and other regionally close countries and of countries that do not belong to the European Union. This analysis shows us the strengths and weaknesses. The honourable Member, in his speech, considered that Portugal had made some progress. In fact, I have recorded the phrase in which it says that we often sell failures better than successes. The question I am pleased to ask right now is whether you think you are in 3. the division is a success for Portugal, especially when we see that weaknesses are pointed out in this report. What does the report tell us? It tells us that, as far as international patent applications are concerned, we are weak. Why? Because we do not value enough the knowledge produced and the application of this knowledge in the economy, of course. More: We have qualified scientific employment, reduced in medium- and high-tech manufacturing; weak results in sales and economic appreciation of knowledge; weak capacity in the size of connections and export of intensive knowledge services; few companies with high investment in R & D, and could continue. These indicators are clear. For us, they are revealing that these are bad news, that they are not proud of the country, and that they demonstrate that much is to be done, not to say that everything has to be done over the past four years. The question is: How can these indicators, which are clearly mediocre, be considered a success, which is what you say in the speech? I think this is surreal. The PSD drew attention to this situation when it presented here a legislative package on a subject which the whole left has been responsible for shambar. We therefore conclude only the following: this government has worked for 3. the division and had only navigation in sight. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u11	To reply, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u12	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, I believe that Portugal is now ranked in 3. the division is not quite realistic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u14	I was careful to say that Portugal, in a few decades, has managed to get out of the line of Europe and the OECD and that, in the last three decades, it has probably not been able to surpass the European average and the OECD average in almost all the indicators we have. Therefore, to exceed the average of European construction and the realization of the OECD countries does not seem to me to place us in 3. the division.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u16	At least put us, maybe, on the 2nd. the division and, as I have had occasion to say, we are, in fact, considered at the top of moderate innovators. We have not yet entered the accelerated innovators or the great innovators. As we all know, the production of knowledge and then the use of this knowledge to improve our life and the life of the planet takes time and I spent a lot of time of my intervention talking, precisely about that time and, also, that we should not only look at the statistics, we should also look at how people's lives have changed in these last four years, in particular. I think, in that respect, we're, I'd say, on 2nd. the division or almost on 1. the division. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u17	To request clarification from the Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, 12 Mr. Members and the Minister indicated that he will respond in groups of six. Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Minister, at the beginning of 2016, the services of the European Commission said about Portugal, in the period ending in 2015, the following : that the intensity of R & D had fallen in those years, moving away from the Union average ; that the framework of innovation in enterprises was inadequate; and that the promotion of cooperation between higher education and enterprises was insufficient. This was the result of the theory of the minimum state applied to public policies for knowledge, with the public deinvestment to drag an even greater private deinvestment. But 2016 was a turning year. R & D expenditure has been increasing from year to year by volume and percentage of GDP, reaching a new peak in 2018 as the numbers known this week say. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u19	From 2015 to 2018, in just 3 years, R & D expenditure grew 35 %, putting us back in line with Europe. We can ask, why? It's that public investment pushes private investment. It's not about statising innovation, it's about an intelligent public strategy being pulled by the private. This is what is making the difference today when the numbers show that the growth of R & D expenditure is particularly significant in the business sector; when the number of researchers in the active population passed from 7, 4, in 2015 to 8, 9, in 2018. The European Innovation Panel 2019, published by the European Commission a few days ago, confirms the repositioning of Portugal as one of the innovative countries with strong progress in recent years, highlighting among the positive factors the role of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) as innovation agents and the attractiveness of our research system. Mr Minister, the results speak for you, but the question I want to ask is about the ongoing strategy. The government has been implementing a strategy of enrichment of the institutional fabric, tending to end the policy of the chapels, of each one, by betting on interface institutions, structured joints, territorial rooting and link to social and economic tissue as a source of vitality of higher education and science institutions, of which are just one example, the Collaborative Laboratories. The question I leave to you is about the current and future development of this strategy, because we need to know that this path will be pursued with determination. It is that economic development and construction of a decent society are two ways that we need to travel simultaneously and the continuation of this strategy of science and innovation is very necessary for this desire. That's the question I'm going to leave you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u20	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. You have the floor to ask for clarification on behalf of the PSD, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we again hold a debate on science policy four years after the takeover of this government and, Minister, once again, four years after its takeover, I have to confront your Black Book of Scientific Assessment in Portugal, which you subscribed during the period of the previous government. At the time he criticized the investment in science because he said that the total annual expenditure on R & D had fallen to 1, 34 % of gross domestic product in 2013. The Government brings the National Scientific and Technological Potential to Parliament. Curiously, it cuts the 2013 value and starts only in 2014. Do you know why, Minister? It is that the value of 2013 was higher than the current one! I would like to know, Mr Minister, what you have to say about this, because we, after hearing the intervention of Prof. Quintanilla, cannot fail to agree with the principles, with the strategy. What this government lacks are not agendas, because this government, like the Socialist Party, usually has the right agendas, does not have the correct policies that go into practice what the agendas are. [[PSD applause.]] I give you the example of the accommodation. Prof. Sobrinho Teixeira had to come down to Lisbon so that there was realism in housing policy, because so far they were only agendas and reliable conversation. Mr Minister, I have to tell you that the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) and science policy cannot be a case policy, of small examples that you choose to disguise the absence of a science policy in Portugal. Despite showing some cases that remain well in the photographs and news, the reality is that there is no effective policy on the ground, because everyone complains about what is happening: they are delays in opening competitions in the FCT, are delays in presenting FCT results, is the lack of compliance between the criteria and decisions, is the lack of transparency of the FCT, is the pursuit of research scholarships, who have met with Parliament and opposed the Minister, having been dismissed from the FCT.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u22	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u23	That is, it is a lack of total transparency! Why, Minister? Because Mr Minister can't move from good intentions to reality, and that is serious and worrying. So I ask you: when will we begin to have a true science policy in Portugal, four years after taking possession? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u24	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, would begin the question with a statement with which he could no longer agree and which Mr Alexandre Quintanilha spoke from the rostrum. He referred to the lives that have changed with the changes, with the policies that have been implemented, particularly in the last four years. And it's true! We could vote a lot on many lives — the PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ), the Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, the delays in the FCT...—which have been altered because of the way the government has been managing much of these processes. We cannot agree more when Mr Alexandre Quintanilla says that we cannot be fooled by statistics alone, we must go to the real life of those who felt these same changes in the skin. We couldn't agree either. It is necessary to go to the concrete life of each of those researchers who, for at least four years or at least during much of this legislature, waited for a positive response at the end of 5 years, 6 years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years of precarious contracts in science; who jumped from postdoc scholarship to another postdoc scholarship; who had a Science contract and who later were IF (Investigator FCT) ; that governments used, for years, as an example of the country's great skulls, but who, in fact, never had the courage to guarantee them a contract under the status of career. We finish this legislation and when we consult the Scientific Employment Observatory or when we consult the PREVPAP numbers, we realize that, of the nearly 6,000 PREVPAP requirements, at the CAB ( Biparty Evaluation Commission ) of Higher Education and Science, we have two contracts under the Scientific Research Career Statute on 28 June 2019. I shall repeat, Minister : of the nearly 6000 PREVPAP requirements, there are currently two contracts for researchers concluded under PREVPAP. The expression “minimum state theory” was also used. And it's true! In the four years of right-wing government, we had the theory that the State does not intervene in the economy, the State does not intervene in investment in public services, the State does not intervene in guaranteeing social protection of labour rights, but in fact when the Minister and his government position in the CAB always allows us to go after Mr. Recitores, it is no more than to rule out the position of the government, through the theory of the minimal state.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u26	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u27	The State does not take part in these decisions, the State is going after what you are doing. Rectors say about PREVPAP. We know well and know, throughout this legislature, the various ideological differences we have. One of them is precisely the fact that the Minister's vision for science is, to a large extent, really to defend the theory of the minimal state. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u28	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, since the topic is science, I would like to ask a question about the evaluation of research and development units, which we have already had the opportunity to speak in committee. We have established that the evaluation which has now been completed or is being completed should have ended in 2017, in your own words, and the Minister has already explained to me in the committee that, in order to make science, patience is needed and that the process has taken more than two years to be well done, according to your words. Mr Minister, I give you back the aliteration saying that 'who doesn't want to be a wolf doesn't wear your skin'. In fact, it was Mr. Minister who, when he took possession, said in the first interview, and committed himself to the scientific community, which would end this assessment at the end of 2017. As the Minister knows as well as I do, if there is anything that scientists claim is stability and predictability in funding. And indeed, predictability has not been, it took two more years until the evaluation was completed and, as regards financial stability, we also have some difficulties, because, Minister, many of the units that had ‘Excellent’ classifications complain now that they have finally had funding, in many cases, 40% below what they had had in the previous evaluation cycle. In addition, part of the programme funding is mandatory for the implementation of the government's scientific employment policy. Moreover, this is what the evaluation report says: « Programmatic funding includes participation in the costs of about 400 new contracts for new doctoral researchers, with a duration of at least three years ». In other words, rather than empowering research units to hire those who believe that they are the necessary resources, it is the government that carries out, through it, its scientific employment policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u30	What a strange thing! Do research with researchers? Oh, my God! That's weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u31	Finally, Mr Minister, and on this assessment, we should again say that, in a debate in which we are talking about science and innovation, we are very strange that, in the evaluation of research units, there is no explicit weighting, an increase that qualifies investment based on knowledge transfer. In the evaluation, there is, on time, this criterion, but then there is no financing itself. As the science applied and the transfer of knowledge is clearly one of the country's deficits, I ask you whether it would not be to include in the research units, as a criterion, the transfer of knowledge. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u32	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the CFP considers that the National Scientific and Technological System is a fundamental axis for the development of our country, a policy of valuing production, as well as for raising the living conditions of the population at the social, economic and cultural levels. We have always criticized the former Government for viewing science and technology as just a way of creating highly specialized labour for export. Precautionaryness is the daughter of right-wing politics and a privileged instrument to carry out, in this area, the technological and economic destruction that leads to loss of sovereignty and submission to interests that have nothing to do with the national interest. For this reason, the CFP argues that the existence of a public investment policy in research and development that, regardless of private investment, enhances and qualifies the system, beginning by eradicating the enormous precariousness that affects science workers. And this is something that we would like the government to address. Mr. Minister brings here a pink image of science in our country and tries to paint it in a pleasant way, but the development of science must be accompanied by the proper appreciation of its workers,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u34	... must be accompanied by the fight against the precariousness and integration of these workers into a career, respecting their rights. In fact, the level of precariousness in science is unacceptable, being far from surpassed. Currently, there are instruments that can and should be used and should not be wasted, as is the case with PREVPAP. However, there are numerous situations that continue to be solved and very low approval rates, which is a huge injustice for workers who have been working with precarious links in the Public Administration for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u36	It is necessary to complete general career processes and it is urgent to end the blockade that has taken place at the level of special careers. So far, there are only 16 teacher contracts and an investigator's contract in progress in a universe of 5931 requirements. It seems that it is all worth not to proceed with regularization, as it is visible in the cases of researchers who, although they have always worked in universities, research units or laboratories, have been denied their right to a contract of employment because, when they applied for PREVPAP, they told them that what they had was a contract with a private non-profit institution. This is in the same place where they have always worked, with the president of one and another institution to be exactly the same, with their work to be identified with the mother-home, as are the cases of the IST (Technical Higher Institute ) and the IST-ID, of FCs or FCs. ID, or FCSH ( Faculty of Social and Human Sciences ) and FCSH ID. In the State Laboratories, there are still many workers in a situation to be regulated. In the IPMA they finally signed a contract on 1 June, the senior technicians, about 80, only are about to open about 30 contests for researchers and about 30 others are waiting for the conclusion of the previous hearing. The Ombudsman has already contacted the CAB on the completion of this process and so far nothing has happened. At LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering), there are cases of workers with truly dramatic situations. There are at least 12 researchers whose scholarships have ended and who are currently without any remuneration, people who have been working there for more than a decade, sometimes up to two, and who are in a desperate state. The Minister of Finance, when he came to Parliament in April, assured in response to the CFP that all these cases, particularly those of the State laboratories, would be resolved by May.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u38	We're at the end of June. How's the life of these people? How can they live without wages? They're pushed into the firehouse. Mr Minister, the role of science and excellence of researchers is often appreciated. We follow the recognition of that same excellence, but once again we reiterate that the excellence of the work that is done must be accompanied by the guarantee of rights: stability, rights and a career. And it is unacceptable that this is not yet assured.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u40	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u41	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. I would also like to ask the Minister why it takes time to strengthen the funds provided for by the public institutions so as to allow the opening of vacancies and competitions for all researchers and technical and administrative staff who perform permanent functions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u42	For one last question to the Minister in this round, Mrs Liliana Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, my question concerns the Collaborative Laboratories, which are a flag of this Government. These new projects were created to be tools that encourage collaboration between the public and private sectors. The creation of social, business and educational collaborative networks that take advantage of our human capital and their knowledge to put it to the service of society is a matrix with which the PSD agrees and defends. in this sense, we will have nothing to stand in the way of the Collaborative Laboratories. However, I cannot fail to mention the curiosity of a government supported by this left, which criticizes the PPPs so much, after all, to promote these partnerships between public and private, with public funding. After all, some materials are already useful! But let us focus on these Laboratories and on some issues on which clarity is needed, dealing with private non-profit associations. There is also a call for attention from the OECD regarding these Laboratories, which concerns the administrative and bureaucratic weight of some projects produced by these same Laboratories that may be harming some smaller companies, weakening them. In addition, the Court of Auditors also alerted the issue of the transparency of scientific, technological and higher education systems. I therefore ask the Minister how he is ensuring this issue. There are many good projects that are victims of some policy breaks in exchange for legislative mandates. I would like to believe that, although these are also political projects, they will have continuity in future mandates. I would like to ask the Minister how the financial sustainability of this project is planned. To conclude, we also want to understand why these Laboratories are limited to legal figures of private association or companies. What's the reason? Why can't they have another legal figure? It is a question that has already been asked to the Government about two years ago and, until today, there has been no answer, which is a total disrespect by Parliament. But I want to believe that today the Minister will respond. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u44	To answer these questions, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful once again for the questions that have been raised to me, to which I shall try to answer as simply and as directly as possible, starting, of course, with Mr Porfirio Silva's question, which I am grateful for and which is particularly timely at this time, because the data for the past four years must give us, above all, the confidence to continue. We have met the goal of securing more than 5000 contracts in this legislature and, if we are to add, again, the values of the contracts made by the companies under assessment under the tax incentives programme in the coming months, we are sure that the values are perfectly compatible with the ambition of achieving the European 2030 targets. But, as I said, the process takes time and has a local and space scale which, of course, can only be associated with a growing effort of territorial cohesion, along with the strengthening of our competitiveness in the global and certainly European context. What we have done in these years was a reorientation of science and innovation policies, mainly based on strengthening what is excellence and scientific merit and, at the same time, on strengthening the density of the territory, diversifying the type of institutions. We have strengthened the research units — the evaluation process is clear: there are more than 150 research units throughout the country, which are considerably strengthened in terms of funding — we are strengthening the Associated Laboratories, but we also open a new legal regime based on best European and international practices, diversifying the range of institutions. To this end, the Interface Programme, which was particularly critical in the programme of reprogramming of Community funds, has enabled not only the financing of technological interface centres, but the creation of a range of new institutions, what we called the Collaborative Laboratories, which are more than pure public-private partnerships. They are new institutions — so I now answer the question by the PSD Member — that follow exactly the OECD recommendation, but also the practices we have seen in other European contexts, the need to strengthen the autonomy of institutions, not only being partnerships, but, on the contrary, being true institutions that differ in their mission. While we have the Research and Development Units ( & D) and the Associated Laboratories oriented towards the production of new knowledge and, certainly, for scientific strengthening, we have the interface centres, obviously, oriented towards what is generic knowledge, especially support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the Collaborative Laboratories, oriented to the strengthening of qualified employment, both in direct terms and employment in indirect terms. And, therefore, we are doing what is already a reference case at European level today, which is to combine territorial cohesion policies with competitiveness policies, densitying the territory through institutional diversification, oriented towards a new panorama and paradigm between knowledge development and job creation. Perhaps the next decade in Portugal and Europe will be critical for citizens to understand a better relationship of trust between knowledge and qualified employment. And what we did in these four years was to completely redirect the scientific policy of the previous period to dignify knowledge in terms of job creation. The results are in sight and, contrary to what has been said here, we have done this by dignifying employment in the Public Administration and by dignifying employment in what collaborative arrangements are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The values are very clear—and I thank, of course, Mrs Ana Mesquita's comments, always timely—but there had never been such a great growth of researchers in the State Laboratories.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u46	Paula Santos, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u47	Today, the State Laboratories, with data from 2018, have again had more than 1500 researchers, when quantified in full-time equivalents, and today we have a network of State Laboratories more dignified and more valued, having public spending in this period was higher than the previous periods. Therefore, to dignify the Public Administration at the same time that we realize that job creation is also done in the market is what I call diversifying the institutional framework, realizing what is the dignity of knowledge as a public good, but also the openness of knowledge to all and, above all, to a better relationship between knowing and using. And this requires, above all, the triangulation and the strengthening of the triangulation between education, research and innovation. We understand innovation as the way companies and entrepreneurs create value by exploring change. And, change, we're doing it with more work. Today, we have more than 8,000 researchers, when they are quantified in full-time equivalents and, once again, distributed both in the public sector and in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u48	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u49	Mr President, I leave a final answer to clarify Mr Duarte Marques' speech. The government does not provide statistics; the Directorate-General for Statistics is an independent organization with INE delegation of competence. The government makes a communiqué based on the statistics and the government's release since 1982 shows the progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u50	We have entered the second round of questions to Mr Minister. The first is Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, in this debate that the Socialist Party has scheduled for today, one of the fundamental points that we must emphasize is that of betting and investment in the internationalization of scientific activity. It is an axis which represents a determining bet, either with regard to the reactivation or strengthening of existing partnerships and which have finally been partly asleep during the previous legislation, or in particular in the effort to continue expanding the diversity of what is the internationalization of our scientific fabric. In fact, we can look at it in a welcoming perspective that Portuguese institutions today can do, strengthening the number of researchers and fellows from other countries who are looking for opportunity here to develop their research projects, either also and particularly in the perspective of opportunities open to Portuguese researchers, in the framework of international partnerships, outside the country or even within the country, but in conjunction with other institutions. Not wanting to be exhaustive, because this would be difficult and something that is also revealing the capacity and investment placed on the table, for example, only referred to the best articulation today integrated into the Go Portugal Programme, in which we were able not only to associate and reactivate, as I said recently, partnerships that were semi-dormified, such as the relationship with MIT-Portugal, that in its four privileged areas today, look precisely at future issues. That is to say, it is not just about creating a project and creating a dynamic and research partnership, but about giving priority, precisely, to what seems to be crucial to our collective future, in matters such as, for example, sustainable cities, digital transformation or climate change, recognizing the importance of accompanying those who are the challenges of the future. These aspects are not, as is sometimes heard in other contexts — which is fortunately not the European, which is not ours — of disinterest and investment in scientific areas, finding that somehow they do not have a direct impact on people's lives. But they have that direct impact on people's lives! In addition to the partnership with MIT, I also refer to the partnership with Carnegie Mellon, the partnership with Texas University in Austin, and many others that have been strengthened and launched. In the European context, in addition to our long-standing partnership with Fraunhofer in Germany, it should be noted that we have now, at the Iberian level, in the area of biomedical research. I also refer to partnerships that are increasingly being made in the field of scientific research, such as the Aga Khan Network for Development, and, in particular, the great bet that we now make on what is the open door of Portugal to the world—it has always been, but it will also have projection in this field—which are the ocean sciences. Mr Minister — and I did not want to take too much time — the question I would like to leave concerns precisely with this strategy: how can we continue to deepen this bet and continue to bet on this axis which has become a transformer? On the other hand, what is the extent of the impact on the lives of researchers? Sometimes we think they're abstract concepts, but they're not. And there is a real impact on the number of pockets, the number of researchers, the number of people, projects and partnerships that have been established. And I would very much like the Minister to be able to comment and deepen what we think is clearly a winning bet, a bet that qualifies science in Portugal and the potential for liaison with other partners and also with business activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u52	You have the floor to put the next question to Mr. Minister, Mr. Álvaro Batista, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister, when they end four years of the left-wing Government, it is also clear that in higher education and scientific employment, money never reached orders. The blame lies with the government and those who approved the Budgets, knowing that they would never be fulfilled. The PCP and the Block can well preach that they are not guilty, but no one is deceived so many times — four Budgets — unless they like to be deceived.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u54	That part is wrong. You always read the same paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u55	In 2017, the government promised the stock marketers and researchers a stable employment link when it included them in the precarious report. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you didn't do it! The government has also promised to stimulate scientific employment. You didn't encourage anything! It was so late in renewing contracts that for hundreds of researchers not to be fired had to be the PSD presenting a bill to extend the contracts to them. With this government, in 2018, more than 80 000 Portuguese immigrants, many highly qualified young people, many teachers and doctors, say the statistics!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u56	Shame on you, shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u57	We have a minister who guarantees the full employment of doctors in a Ministry with a contest with 3000 candidates for 300 vacancies. We are now almost in the second half of 2019, but only half of the contracts for financing the 2017 and 2018 Research and Development projects have been concluded — they are overdue! Of 166 investigators who should have already been hired under the Special Regularization Programme of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), only one has their situation resolved. Why? Of the 142 teachers in the same situation, only 17 have signed contracts. Why? Oh, my God! Worse it's impossible! The government has failed in scientific employment. They did it because the capitulations consume the money. They did it because of incompetence and lack of strategic vision. They pay researchers today, they will pay the country with poverty and lack of competitiveness tomorrow. One question, Minister : will you also apologize as the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing or insist on'sort of bad payers'? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u58	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we understand the difficulty of the Minister to respond to why he always goes behind the vote of the rectors in PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Career Links in Public Administration ). In fact, it is very difficult to answer that. But I have another question to ask you. Looking at the 2013 and 2014 figures, with regard to the percentage of GDP in science and knowledge, looking at the figures presented in 2018 and the estimate for 2019 also as a percentage of GDP for science and knowledge, and looking at the objective, with which I think this House agrees, of 3% of GDP for science in 2030, I would like Mr. This is a question about the future, but it is a question about the country's accounts. It is a question about how we have finally made a European compromise, which is also a national compromise. And how, with what mechanisms and with what strategy, in the medium term, do we get there? It is that if we look at the graph showing us the increase in investment in science in 2030, it will not reach 3% of GDP, but at 1,7 % of GDP. And 3 % of GDP will only reach 2073. What it means, Mr Minister, is that, for a medium-term strategy, it is necessary not only to ensure that we increase the budget for science in the State budget, but not only to ensure that we also increase budgets in companies, giving guarantees for companies to be able to contract and at the same time having this social and labour responsibility to hire researchers and invest in science, but, above all, it is necessary to have a debate on the country's accounts. If the Minister commits himself to having 3 % of GDP for science in 2030, but the figures show that we will only reach 1 %, 7 %, there is something about the country's accounts, about public investment, about investment in science, which, I think, does not depend only on good will or commitment from the government, it depends on a new strategy for science that places knowledge not only as a priority from the Ministry but as a priority from the country, in public services, in public investment and in qualification. And for that, we cannot continue to stick to the goals of the deficit. Mr Minister, my question is very simple: how is it that, with the targets of the deficit with which the government has committed itself, the Minister can at the same time commit himself to the 3% of GDP targets for science in 2030? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u60	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u61	Mr. President, Minister, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education that you announced in 2018 a total research expenditure that has reached the highest levels since 2009. It follows from the Survey of the National Scientific and Technological Potential ( IPCTN ) that investment in science was EUR 2753 million, an increase of EUR 168 million corresponding to 1,37 % of GDP. As in 2017 it was only 1, 33 %, the increase is undeniable but exacted. It should be noted that the most obvious increase was in the public sector of 7, 2 %, i.e. more than half of the national investment in Research and Development. It is worth recalling that the Prime Minister had defined that the investment target for 2020 was 2,7 % of GDP in 2020, which was subsequently corrected to 3 % with a view to 2030. The truth is that we keep moving away from the European indexes, getting below the average. There is no money for science — it is the common opinion. The Minister says that it is all right and rejoices, claiming the full employment of the doctors. But there is news and evidence that only about one third of the advertised contracts are formalized — thousands of researchers affected, ignored and even already placed but still without payment — that precariousness prevails and that the financing of the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT) is almost laughable enough. Despite this status quo, this Government and its Ministry have been unable to justify and capture European funds of significant value among those intended for science throughout this legislature. Everything goes « the cash tap » of the Ministry of Finance, all conform to the crumbs distributed by Mário Centeno. Mr. Minister, 1, 37% of GDP appears today to be a cause of great pride, but in 2013 the investment was 1, 34% in an identical level. So, Minister, can you tell us what Prof. Manuel Heitor could tell us about this matter, the same as he signed the Black Book of Scientific Assessment in Portugal in 2015? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u62	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u63	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you two questions that have to do with a dimension of science policy which is also crucial for regional cohesion and territorial cohesion in our country. The first is to know whether or not the Government supports the project of the MED Centre ( Institute for Agriculture, Environment and Development in the Mediterranean ), which is a project to create an Associate Laboratory involving several entities from three higher education institutions. In the case of Évora University, the Institute of Mediterranean Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (ICAAM ) and the Évora Pole of the Centre for Research in Biodiversity and Genetic Resources ( Cibio ). In the case of the Beja Polytechnic Institute, the Centre for Agricultural and Food Biotechnology of the Alentejo ( CEBAL ). And, in the case of the University of Algarve, the Centre for Biological Resources and Mediterranean Food (MitBio). The project has already been applied to the FCT — of course, it needs this assessment — but we wanted to know what the government is doing, to see whether there is indeed or not support from the Government for this initiative, considering that it will be the only research unit, in the integration between agriculture, food, rural development and the environment, to exist in the south of the country and that this is of course an important contribution to the contribution from the point of view of science policy to regional and territorial cohesion. The other question, Minister, also has to do with this, but it still has to do with a more serious problem. It is the problem of an assault, which is and is proceeding, at the expense of Alentejo 2020, by the hand of the FCT. I am referring, in the Priority axis 2 — Human Capital Education and Qualification — to the Investment Priority 10.2, in which there are EUR 30 million of funds provided for in the Alentejo 2020 for projects developed within the region for doctors to be carried out in the region, in accordance with the Regional Strategy for Intelligent Specialization and that the FCT is now seeking to divert to use throughout the country, according to the National Strategy for Intelligent Specialization, thus withdrawing from the Alentejo EUR 30 million, which should be channelled to the investment that needs to be done there. And, Mr Minister, in the notice, this is very evident because the replacement of references to regional strategies by the national strategy, the elimination, as beneficiaries, of all those who stood out, with the exception of the FCT, eliminating higher education institutions, DGES, higher education students, R & D centres, universities in partnerships with companies, all of which disappears and is only the beneficiary of the FCT. Mr Minister, this is an assault on the words of the Alentejo 2020! This is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done with the use of Community funds, to promote regional and territorial cohesion and to support investment in higher education and science, particularly in areas within the country. And I wanted to know whether or not this has the Government's agreement, whether or not it has the Ministry's agreement. And if you do not have the Ministry's agreement, what measures will the Minister take to prevent this assault from being carried out? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u64	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify the subject of the investigation of state institutes for this purpose. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, for two public institutes, the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute for the Sea and the Atmosphere) and the INIAV ( National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research ). And I ask you not to be justified by saying that they are not your competence, because they are institutes where the definition of your strategic guidelines and the monitoring of your implementation are articulated among the members of the responsible government, but also connected with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education. With regard to the IPMA, this Institute concentrates its research, essentially, on seeking information under public service arrangements. You will certainly be aware that the IPMA assumes the responsibility for obtaining scientific basis on the national maritime area. Among many areas, it assesses the state of fish resources and predicts their evolution in different catch scenarios. For this purpose, it has four research vessels. Can you assume that we are trained to produce data and information that respond to the needs of the country in respect of maritime resources? As for the National Institute of Agrarian and Veterinary Research ( INIAV ), we have information that the Cereal Experiment Centre, integrated in the INIAV, has done research in improving and purifying cereal seeds. Over 10 years of studies, experiments, field tests, patent registration, etc. instead of placing such seeds at the service of farmers, it decided to place these patents on the market, feeding the profits of private interests. The PCP Parliamentary Group also learned that some of these seeds were acquired by Agrigenesis - Products for Agriculture and Agriculture SA, which, however, entered into insolvency in 2014, so those seeds entered into the bankrupt mass and cannot be used by anyone. It is appropriate to ask ourselves, Minister : what is the government and its Ministry of Research, considering the disaster to which the right-wing policy voted the State's Laboratories and Experimental Centres? How can you ensure that the research produced in public institutions, is reversing in favour of the people and the country and not to feed private profits? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u66	In reply, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful once again for the questions and will try to answer not only those that have been asked to me in this second round but also those that I have not had the opportunity to answer. I can only begin by making a reference to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' intervention on a particularly critical aspect of what Portugal's position in the world is by internationalizing the science and innovation system. It was 20 years ago. It is an intrinsic characteristic of our scientific capacity, which, since the creation of the Foundation for Science and Technology—at the time, as we know, under the leadership of José Mariano Gago— was a critical basis and therefore the evaluation of research centres and other activities such as projects has always been done in Portugal by international evaluators. 10 years ago, we strengthened what was the individual or individualized component of the internationalization of science to introduce in Portugal an institutional component with major strategic partnerships, especially aligned with strategic priorities for Portugal. What we have now done, again, was to strengthen this strategy of international partnerships that complement the practice, already totally endogenous in the scientific community, of strengthening its own internationalization at individual level. And we have re-oriented these partnerships for the major challenges of Portugal in the world, especially in terms of the transformation of digital and climate change issues. The development of what we called "Go Portugal — Global Science and Technology Partnerships Portugal", which today is a reference at European and Atlantic level, has been redirected to our strategic positioning in the Atlantic and therefore the three main partnerships with the American universities have this emphasis, as well as, following the recommendation of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), emphasizing the new low-cost systems of Earth observation through a new strategy for space. We therefore reopen our reinforcement in the European Space Agency and today we do not only have a strategy for space, but also an Atlantic strategy, especially through the new space law, i.e. through the creation of the Space Agency. Then, to complement this strategy, we have implemented the International Atlantic Research Centre, which is already a reality, based on the Third Island, where, with the support of the European Space Agency, we are creating a Earth Observation Laboratory, but above all an international network institution with poles in Spain, the United Kingdom, Nigeria, South Africa and Brazil. This component of positioning Portugal in the world with strategic partnerships is what has encouraged us for the future. But we didn't stay here! We know that internationalization must also be seen in the other major challenges for Portugal, in particular in combating inequalities and, above all, in what is the demographic context of Portugal. Therefore, internationalizing science and higher education was also a strategy of this government, which will certainly be continued in the future through the Study and Research Programme in Portugal. We had a particular incidence in the Lusodescendant communities and, in the last six months, the Secretary of State of Science, Technology and Higher Education, João Sobrinho Teixeira, and the Secretary of State of the Communities were in 32 cities with a strong component of Lusodescendant to bring more Lusodescendants to Portugal and facilitate their access to higher education, as well as to facilitate the entry into Portugal of more immigrants, combating both inequalities in higher education and, above all, our demographic issue for the next decade. Therefore, understanding the internationalization of knowledge as a clear political action to combat inequalities, to combat demographic pressure, but also to respond to the challenges of digital transformation and, above all, climate change, was the reorientation of our scientific policy in the field of internationalization. I must say that we have certainly done so in a global context, looking at Portugal in the world, but above all, strengthening our unique position and our European characteristic. To this end, we strengthened the so-called PERIN ( Portugal in Europe Research and Innovation Network ), the Portugal network in Europe in research and innovation, with the ambition to double our participation in European programmes in the next framework programme. In 2018, Portugal reached the highest level of Community funding on centralised management, having exceeded the EUR 175 million of the Horizon 2020 programme, and today we have a new position to be able to articulate, not only in the so-called Horizon Europe programme, but also in the Europe Digital programme and for the first time in the European space programme. We therefore associated with the European Commission, both Commissioner Carlos Moedas and Commissioners Elżbieta Bieńkowska and Mariya Gabriel, a strategy for positioning in digital and space that is innovative, not only in Portugal but also in Europe, making it easier, above all, low-cost systems that have an impact at European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u68	Mr. Minister, thank you for finishing, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u69	I shall conclude by saying that this is the strategy of internationalisation that we are making, in close cooperation with a policy of territorial cohesion and strengthening our competitiveness, converging to Europe, always with more knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u70	we will move on to the stage of the interventions, the first being the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr António Costa e Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u71	So what about the other questions that were asked? Mr. Minister doesn't answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u72	He answered only one question from the parliamentary group itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u73	He only answered a question from the PS! It's too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u74	Mr António Costa e Silva, please speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u75	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government should have taken measures to allow the start of investments in scientific and technological infrastructures and, to that end, we miss the absence of the Minister of Economy in this session. This is a decisive matter for the country. We have been four years without projects — four years totally lost — four years without project implementation in the areas of scientific and technological infrastructure, four years without implementation of investments in technology-based incubators, four years without investments in nests and business nursery, four years without implementation in science and technology parks, four years without implementation in technology transfer networks, four years without implementation in business centres and business hosting areas, four years disastrous for investments in scientific and technological areas. Minister, what did you miss? What are your excuses? Was it lack of money? Oh, my God! Don't! Are there no Community funds specifically for this subject, financed at 85 %, non-refundable subsidies, commonly called lost funds? Oh, my God! They exist, actually. So what happened, Minister? Was it government incompetence? It can only have been, because there is no other justification. Almost four years to make mappings of these infrastructures! It's too bad to be true! The former government, led by the PSD, clearly developed scientific and technological infrastructures throughout the country. It was this dynamic and positive energy that allowed to support investments in the technological area, of which are examples: science and technology parks, technology-based incubators, business centers, etc. The expectation was that this government could add something to this dynamic! But in the last four years, investments in scientific and technological infrastructure have not existed. The implementation rate in Portugal 2020 and regional operational programmes is zero in this area. Repeat: it's zero! Mr Minister, where are these funding? What are the excuses? The initiatives to be financed should favour the incorporation of qualified human resources and focus, preferably, on the areas identified in the regional strategies and the National Strategy for Research and Innovation for an Intelligent Specialization (ENEI), and this has not been done. The emergence of new business opportunities and new investments should be guaranteed to favourable business ecosystems, which has not been done either, Minister. Where are these investments? These new investments should contribute to changing the regional and national production profile, through a consistent and integrated incorporation of entrepreneurship promotion. That was not the case either, Minister. What's wrong? These delays and this lack of investment are calling into question the possibility of creating the improvement and expansion of scientific and technological infrastructures, inhibiting many emerging business projects that can be installed. Mr President, the PSD-led government has well prepared a set of interventions in centres of excellence in the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u76	To hell with it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u77	The center of excellence of UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro) advanced. But what's going on with Évora? What about the Beira Interior? He didn't take advantage of anything, he didn't make any progress. Not one took advantage of it, Minister! More: the PSD Parliamentary Group proposed that centres of excellence should also be set up in the Polytechnics of the interior, and the Minister also did not take this opportunity which was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. So, we've been walking for four years, four years without the ability to change, or help to change, the country's productive profile. It was four years of fantasy and nothing else, that's all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u78	To ask for clarification, Mr. Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party was written to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa and Silva, there would be a lot to comment on your speech, but I am just showing you a chart. This is not a figure of the Socialist Party, but Eurostat, which reveals the weight of GDP research and development ( gross domestic product ) between 2011 and 2018. Mr Deputy, the only question I ask you is this: how does he explain that, between 2011 and 2015, in his Government, in the PSD Government / CDS, there has been this brutal fall in the weight of GDP research and development? [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you can see in the chart very clearly, from 2015 we completely reverse this fall. The only thing I ask is a clear explanation of this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u80	To reply, Mr António Costa e Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u81	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I am grateful for the question you have raised, but the answer is very simple. The honourable Member sets a target of 1, 3 %, which is the one the government is running right now, but it should be up to 3 %. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you in another way: what part of my speech did you not understand? [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] In scientific and technological infrastructures, the level of implementation is zero! Using Community funds, it's zero! Your chart does not justify this issue, Mr President! You asked a question totally aside, which makes no sense, because the rate of execution in scientific and technological infrastructure is zero. That is what the government has to justify. And you, who support this government, also have to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u82	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, Prime Minister announced the goal of moving from 1, 28 % of the GDP invested by the country in science to at least 2, 7 % in 2020. This ambitious plan by the Prime Minister was then classified by the Minister of Protection as a vision. But with reduced budgets, I think it would be feasible, in four years, to double the country's investment in science, in fact, was more a delusion than a vision. The objective was then set at 3 % of GDP by 2030, with a one-third investment by the public sector and two-thirds by the private sector. What, then, is the current situation? The expenditure on research and development in Portugal was EUR 2753 million in 2018, which, as has already been said, represents 1,37 % of GDP. The business sector executed 51 % of this value, with 36 % of human resources, as a full-time equivalent. Higher education has already run 42%, but with 64% of human resources. There is a clear difference in productivity between sectors. For the Minister, this is not a problem because, and I quote, « these investments have to be geared towards job creation ». For the CDS, these investments should, yes, be oriented towards the creation of value which in turn will generate employment. To reverse this predicate endangers the sustainability of companies, institutions and, ultimately, of jobs themselves. The focus must be on value creation and for this reason one of the most important instruments available to the Government is Portugal 2020. According to the National Agency for Innovation ( ANI ), by the end of 2018, 2058 applications were received, 50 % of which were from companies and 30 % from higher education institutions, and 674 projects were approved. of the nearly EUR 3000 million of proposed investment, 700 million were approved, but only 105 million were paid. I repeat: only EUR 105 million has been paid at an implementation rate of 15 %. With these very low execution rates, it will be difficult to achieve any goals and, above all, to count that the private sector contributes with two thirds of the effort, when it is the government itself to hinder the implementation of investment and innovation projects. On the other hand, it is argued that scientific research developed in the scientific and technological system, whether fundamental or applied, is also itself, the creator of value, innovation and attractor of international investment. Despite this consensus, in 2018 more than 5000 scientists signed a manifesto, listing failures in public policy and asking the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to draw a path to science, establishing basic practices of regularity, stability, predictability and transparency in the system. The government's reaction was at least sui generis. The Minister has also decided to sign the manifesto. Therefore, a year has passed, it is not surprising that the situation remains unchanged and that the same scientists reiterate their position, stating, "Without the complete resolution of these problems, Portugal will not be able to capitalise on the investment made over the last decades in human resources and scientific infrastructures effectively and will continue to witness the inevitable loss of competitiveness at the international level". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European Innovation Panel 2019 shows that Portugal is still in the group of 14 countries below the European average. Of course there's been progress. It is apparent that Portugal has a good performance in terms of broadband penetration and innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises, but is very low in patents, links between private and scientific sectors and the export of knowledge-based services. This is where the key to public policy for the coming years lies: predictability and regularity in funding; definition of career incentives, evaluation and funding, also oriented towards the link between the scientific and technological system and the business sector; attractive conditions for the development and registration of intellectual property, as well as the creation and establishment of intensive knowledge-exporting companies. These are necessary commitments for science and innovation that the CDS will not miss. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u84	There are no requests for clarification for Mrs Deputies, so we move on to the next intervention, which is the responsibility of Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Our welcoming socialist Azorian, Prof. José Medeiros Ferreira, in 2011 wrote that « The Azores, in the future, may constitute a scientific and technological research centre of great global importance, especially in the areas of interaction between the ocean and the atmosphere». This was the vision launched by José Medeiros Ferreira. Today, this is a plan and a challenge of the Socialist Party and the Portuguese know that PS is a party of convictions and, above all, they know that it does. This international perception of the strategic value of the Azores as a scientific and technological platform in multiple domains is today undeniable. In fact, it has been at the centre of the appreciation of international cooperation in science and technology developed by this Government. The reality is that the Atlantic positioning of the Azores opens unique opportunities to the country in the international context, not replicable in any other place in the world, which represents an effective comparative advantage that has not always been taken advantage of. In 2011, we all recognized it, but it was only in 2015, with this government, that a new strategy was effectively promoted to enhance the Atlantic position of Portugal focused on the Azores, with obvious results. Despite the skepticism of some regarding the results for the region and for the country as a whole, I would like to highlight four areas in which we actually went from vision to realization. These four areas are the strategy for space, the international cooperation of R & D ( research and development ), AZORES ISLP ( International Satellite Launch Programme ) and Go Portugal. Let's talk about the space strategy. Space is now recognised as a national design, representing an imperative for the promotion of social and economic progress and international security. The reality is that the security and well-being of society are increasingly dependent on the information and services provided from space. from there the importance of a strong bet in this sector and Portugal is today recognized as a case of success. A case of success also centered on the Azores and with an involvement of the Azorian Government, in which I highlight three key projects: the creation of Portugal Space, the Portuguese space agency, based on the island of Santa Maria ; the installation of the new antenna of the European Space Agency ( ESA ), also in Santa Maria, and the participation of Portugal in the Space Surveillance and Tracking program, whose national data operations centre will be installed on the third island. The second area, the commitment to international R & D cooperation, has been realized through the international agenda Atlantic Interactions, in order to integrate knowledge of climate change, atmosphere, space and oceans, enabling the achievement of the objectives of the UN ( United Nations ) and the Paris Agreement. Here I highlight two projects developed in the Azores with international significance: the International Atlantic Research Centre, the Air Centre, an innovative network research and technology institution that is already the target of several European projects. In addition, the Air Centre has also received unprecedented support from the European Space Agency for the creation of the first ESA Earth Observation Laboratory, ESA /CJ Lab @Azores, which is also installed on the Third Island. The third area, the bet on one of the most media projects, the International Azores Programme for the Launch of Satellites, the Azores ISLP, which today is a European reference programme. The challenge is to ensure the world-wide unpublished installation of a space port open to all international actors and operators on the island of Santa Maria. Finally, a global measure, the Go Portugal programme of global development and partnerships, which this month on the Third Island, celebrated a new partnership with the University of Massachusetts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a global strategy. It is not limited to developing isolated actions in the Azores, but rather to establishing a framework of transatlantic relations in the European perspective. It involves and links the Azores to a globally competitive European space sector and, above all, stimulates the creation of qualified employment and the leverage of new projects of great added value, which can ensure the increase and a new impetus to the economic development of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, affirming the Azores as a center of scientific and technological research of great importance worldwide. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese put their trust in the Socialist Party and I am sure they will strengthen it in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u86	There are no requests for clarification on the speech of the honourable Member, and we shall proceed to the next intervention, which is the responsibility of Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : We understand that there is a facility, given that the call has been made by the Socialist Party, to begin all the answers responding to the Members of the Socialist Party. What is already a bit strange is the fact that only to respond to the Socialist Party's Members. The interlocution, marked by the Socialist Party, is for the Government to answer this House, to all the questions that are put to it and did not answer in the first round nor answered in the second round the questions asked by the Left Block. At none of the times he was able to answer, not even touching on the issues on which we raised questions. In fact, he began in his second speech by saying that he was going to answer the questions that had not been answered before and spent the 6 minutes of his intervention to answer only one question from a member of this House. That is why, and because you have four minutes left available and the final time to close the debate, I would like to ask you exactly the same questions that I asked you in the previous rounds, to which Mr President did not seem to have the opportunity, the opportunity, the time or the ability to answer. The first is: what is the reason for the Minister, for the Government and for the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education to always go after the votes of the principals in PREVPAP? Always! You've always voted next to the ladies. Rectors, ensuring that 95 % of the PREVPAP requirements of researchers were dropped. It has not yet answered this question once in committee, and I have not told this House today, once again, what really is the criterion on which the Government is based to always vote with the honourable Members. Rectors in PREVPAP. The second question concerns the following: on the percentage of GDP for science, the Minister committed himself to the government, committed himself to the country, with 3% of GDP for science in 2030. We follow this position, as I think, in fact, the overwhelming majority of this House, given the importance of guaranteeing 3 % of GDP by 2030. Therefore, we follow this objective, but looking at the growth that we can observe today in GDP for science, perhaps in 2073 we achieve the target that is set for 2030, because in 2030 we will have 1, 7%. The question is this, Minister : it is not enough to say that we need to continue to follow this course; it is necessary to explain what is the medium-term strategy for science to actually reach 3% of GDP in 2030. Let us hope, of course, that the time remains for you, and regretting having spent an intervention to reiterate my questions, that you can answer what, during the overwhelming majority of the debate, did not have the ability to answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u88	Mr President, you do not have any requests for clarification either. The next intervention is for Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u89	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries and all present: Unfortunately, in this appeal to the PS Government, we have seen an appeal aimed solely at propaganda, a propaganda that will only deceive the least informed or those distant from the science and innovation system. It cannot be serious a debate where the highest science policy officer in Portugal, the Minister — the same person who, together with more than 5000 scientists, signed a manifesto against himself and his policy — does not succeed here, at the end of the legislature, in making a critical analysis of his action over the past four years, listing, along with what went well, what went less well or what went even wrong. Mr. Minister, a lot went wrong and we're not the ones who say it. It was Mr Minister and the 5000 scientists, when they say, and I quote, to be « concerned about the lack of stability of the current higher education and science system, the absence of multiannual calendarling, competitions for research projects, the unpredictability of financing, excessive bureaucracy», etc. etc. But it was also the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) that denounced the lack of strategy in its evaluation. contrary to what has been said by the Socialist Party, the Strategy for Technological and Business Innovation is strongly criticised by the OECD, which also says, and I quote, that «it is a document that is not always necessary, is a very short and open document, is a document that does not report on actions or resources for this purpose». Mr. Minister, let's be honest. We welcome - of course, with the good results that Portugal has in innovation, and has had over the past years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u90	Ah! The last four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u91	...but we have no doubt that you know who you owe. It is not to the government or government policy that does not exist, it is to the companies, I repeat, that it is to the companies that fight. Mr Minister, I recall the words of the OECD report — the translation is ours, of course — on this: « The economic success in most companies was achieved by incremental innovation and learning when doing and not by a process based scientifically on innovation. It says more, and I quote: "It must be done more, including in higher education institutions, in particular by giving them more incentives for greater involvement with industry. Do not keep on seeking. ” And what are we watching, Minister? The government, a month ago, published the Science Law and what happened? He has excluded higher education institutions! In a country where R & D outside the companies is closely linked to universities and polytechnics, which support the salaries of researchers who are included in their tables, the government makes a Science Law and, in the seven types of institutions – imagine! — higher education institutions are not included. We don't believe this is a way to look at the country. Only a good articulation of the public media involved in the creation of knowledge can generate synergies that ensure competitiveness. The Portuguese know that one of the most urgent issues for Portugal is the competitiveness of our economy. We all know that public resources are scarce, so everyone is expected to hold hands: university and politics, state laboratories, authorities and companies, of course. Do not assume that the quality of higher education, innovation and science in Portugal depends on a close link between research, higher education and economics is to make a critical strategic error.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u92	Mr. Member, the Bureau was here with extraordinary complacency... but it's going to have to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u93	I am concluding, Mr. President. One last sentence: it is regrettable to see so many missed opportunities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u94	The Bureau apologizes for the delay. There are no entries for requests for clarification, Mr Luís Testa, of the Socialist Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u95	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This government has defined as a priority axis for this legislature the bet on the competitiveness and attractiveness of the country, using technological innovation and scientific activity as transformative tools of our economic fabric. The creation of conditions favourable to the development of scientific activity and its democratisation and the development of an institutional environment conducive to the transfer of knowledge to the economy were, as revealed by the positive evolution of the indicators of the 2018 European Innovation Panel, wagered by this government, highlighting among other things a greater dynamism of our exports. To sustain this journey, we had to make an ambitious symbiosis between scientific creation and economic activity, in its various facets, resulting in the advances in innovation that we have been conquering in this legislature. The implementation of the Technology and Business Innovation Strategy 2018 - 2030, in conjunction with the National Science and Technology Plan, framed the Government's vision for a commitment to present and future, bringing together the production and dissemination of knowledge and its transfer to the economy. The effort of investing in qualified human resources and their integration into R & D infrastructures, higher education institutions and businesses was a priority. The total expenditure of R & D grew to EUR 175 million, reaching 1, 33 % of GDP in 2017, an evolution that coincides with European numbers. The companies hired researchers between 2016 and 2017 at a higher rate 11 %. The number of doctors to perform R & D activities in companies that have benefited from support increased by 30 % since 2015 and 10 % between 2016 and 2017, and the number of R & D companies that have benefited from these support to hire doctoral researchers increased by 37 % in 2015, including about 290 companies in 2017. We have strengthened the importance of collaborative projects and cooperation between companies and the scientific world in Portugal 2020, an important contribution to the digitization of the productive fabric of the Portuguese economy. The Interface Programme has created synergies and strengthened the link between companies, universities and technological centres, improving the relationship between scientific knowledge and business innovation, through FITEC (Finance of Innovation, Technology and Circular Economy), collaborative laboratories, supplier clubs, and certification of clusters of competitiveness. at the level of development incentives, scientific research, access to international networks, projects and research resources continued and continued to guarantee support within Portugal 2020. We have, and are implementing, measures set out in the Agenda "Compromise with Knowledge and Science" for the years 2016 to 2020, strengthening institutional scientific collaboration between the various sectors of society and the economy. Only with the deepening of this culture of getting the science and economy to walk hand in hand is that we can strengthen our companies, as we have done and how we continue to do. None of this is empty words, none of this is in vain! It is because there is a strong conviction in the development of the country, in the development of Portugal, and this contributes decisively to the success of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u96	The government signed up for an intervention. To this end, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In my last speech, I was interrupted when I was prepared to answer, indeed, all questions, from the left and right, so obviously I will start to do so from now on. I begin with the question by Mr. João Oliveira, which is particularly important about Mediterranean studies and in particular the specificity of scientific and technological development in the Alentejo. I must say that, for the first time in the history of modern Portugal, when we did the evaluation, we purposely defined and increased the number of evaluation panels of the units, in order to integrate interdisciplinary areas that could also have reflected in our territory and in our strategic positioning. One of these areas is Mediterranean studies, in which today we have good results, particularly in research centres that referred, particularly in the Mediterranean study centre, based in Évora, which was obviously one of the successful cases of this reorientation of policy associated with the evaluation of research units. I have met systematically with the rectors and delegates of the universities that you have mentioned, either from Évora or from Algarve, to effectively strengthen the Mediterranean studies. In addition, I think you know that we had a clear position with the European Commission and with Commissioner Carlos Moedas to strengthen Portugal's position in the European partnership PRIMA ( Partnership for Research and Innovation in the Mediterranean Area ), where it is the director of the University of Évora representing Portugal. That is why we are sure that the strengthening of Mediterranean studies is being done and will be done in future both nationally and in European terms. In good time, I take the concerns raised about the coordination between the Foundation for Science and Technology and the Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ( CCDR ) of the Alentejo, which certainly cannot make any sense. Therefore, Alentejo 2020 funds are to be used, of course, in Alentejo 2020, as it could not be. Mrs Paula Santos, I apologize for the confusion I made with Mrs Ana Mesquita, but I had the notes of the last meeting of the Commission. Mrs Paula Santos and Mr Luís Monteiro asked me about PREVPAP and the fight against precariousness. There have been different questions and, basically, I will answer in an isolated way, because, in fact, our fight against precariousness, which was clear, effective, relevant and consequent, has gone through a policy of diversification of instruments. Therefore, the fight against precariousness in this area must be seen either in terms of the Stimulation Programme for Scientific Employment, or in terms of PREVPAP itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u98	Just keep the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u99	In the context of PREVPAP, which is an important component, it is important to say that: in terms of non-teaching and non-research officials, we had 1296 regularizations; in the case of teachers, there were 142 regularizations, corresponding to 98 % of the situations in actual breach of career status; and, in the case of researchers, there were 170 %, because most of the requirements were supported through the Stimulation Programme for Scientific Employment. It is true, I confirm, that it has been a daily concern, my own and the government, the completion of this process, because we know that it is complex and that, at the moment, there are still high ones that have to be approved by several actors. Therefore, our commitment is firm with regard to the completion of this process. However, the fight against precariousness is not limited to PREVPAP. The fight against precariousness in science and higher education was effective with the full fulfilment of the goal of more than 5000 contracts during this legislature. Mr Luís Monteiro made a particularly important contribution to the future. This was the reflection that the Government made, in particular in the Council of Ministers of 15 February 2018, when it published the Resolution on the Innovation Strategy 2018 - 2030. Today, we are confident that numbers show us: in 2016, 2017 and 2018, overall expenditure increased 519 million euros and in none of these years the actual increase was less than 150 million euros, ranging from 150 million to 190 million euros. So the question for 2030 is that if Portugal continues to achieve these growth levels in the next decade, we will be able to reach 3 % of GDP, fortunately, also increasing GDP. The question is, in the history of the last 20 or 30 years of scientific development,... [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u100	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u101	We never had 10 consecutive years of growth. I would also like to reply briefly to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS on the evaluation criteria. First of all, the assessment is not made by the Government and contrary to what Mrs Ilda Novo said, the statistics are not published by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u102	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude. You will have time to respond during the closing phase of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u103	I'm done now, Mr. President. The evaluation has three clear criteria, in relation to scientific and international quality and merit, the merit of researchers themselves and the adequacy of the plan, and the objectives of the evaluation are determined solely by those which are today the best European practices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Economist Schumpeter has left us, already in the middle of the 20th century, a thesis that has become classic and has served, up until today, to help explain the disruptive nature of innovation. His idea of creative destruction has nothing to do with the devil invented by the Portuguese right, in a catastrophic but deliberately primary allusion, to the difference of political thought and government action between us and them. The creative destruction of Schumpeter has to do with the need for adaptation in an environment that evolves, which is competitive and in which only those who adapt themselves, as, in fact, also defended another classic, a naturalist of his time, Darwin, with his inspiring theory of human evolution, in which only the most adapted survived. This adaptation brings us innovation and ensures that companies, regions and countries evolve. Unfortunately, there were times when parties with government responsibility did not understand the central role of science, allowing the country to fall into a process of extraordinary technological intensity growth, which began, in addition, in 2000, reaching peaks of research and development expenditure in 2009 and 2010 but which between 2011 and 2015 observed a backwardness that compromised the essential goal of ensuring that we would reach 3% of GDP in research and development ( & D ). On this point, let me go back to Schumpeter, because I am sure that if he looked at this phenomenon he would add another idea in the line of the previous one, but now that of the trend towards 'destructive creation', shown by the Portuguese right, which has suddenly caught up one of the most important axes for economic growth and for the recovery of productivity, still today, in fact, one of the major challenges of the country. Mr President, that is why the PS could not finish this legislation without fixing the importance of science, not only in its pure and hard aspects of production of fundamental research, whose results are notorious, but of creating value and pillar essential for development, as it easily demonstrates empirical observation. It is for this observation that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, since the beginning of its mandate, has been on the street to seek the Country of Innovation and to help implement the only acceptable strategy to recover lost time and investment levels in research and development, but also in entrepreneurship, technology transfer and support for innovation within Portuguese SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises). Mrs. Members, from Vila Real to Algarve, from Azores to Guard, from Bragança to Évora, from Coimbra to Beja, from Madeira to Portalegre or Viseu, therefore, always outside the large urban centers, we know and has been demonstrated to us that it is also through the knowledge economy that the struggle of interiority is halted. The battle for cohesion is now more robust and more effective because the political options of this government, which, for example, improved the financial autonomy of companies or which supported R & D spending in SMEs or the conditions for attracting foreign direct investment (IDE) outside the major centres, strengthened the value of the interior, fixed populations and attracted qualified resources. in these places we visited over the four years, we found Kathrein Automotive in Vila Real, the foundation Rebikoff-Niggeler (FRN), in the Azores, the Vale D’ Village, in Guarda, the Quinta dos Castelares, in Bragança, the Embraer, in Évora, the Evertis, in Portalegre, or the Visabeira, in Viseu. All these companies work in the international market, are very competitive and are an example, among many others, of the hope of the country and the future of the interior itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are no longer on the European front because we have made strong progress over the past four years and are very close to joining the group of the most innovative countries in Europe. But, Mr President, there is a very relevant fact that European indicators show us: the country has opposed a certain paradox, very European, in which much of the research and development originates in the state, making innovation difficult because there are obstacles between laboratories and public universities to transform science production into value, i.e. to transfer technology to the market and generate business through companies. The data also point out here that we are on the way, with Portuguese SMEs investing more and more in research, thus allowing us to skip the stage of knowledge transfer, almost always very complex and impeded of business generation. In short, as in economic growth we converge with Europe, the country is more innovative and the sensitivity of companies to the value of knowledge is also gaining ground in relation to the other European partners. Mr President, if it is true that, as I said before, there have been governments that have despised the value of innovation and knowledge, weakening the country, there are also those in this Parliament who do not understand that the importance of research and development and science is not exhausted in the pipette, test tube or test tube, nor that the importance of research and development is not only consolidated in a purely trade unionist and isolated debate, sometimes sterile, on research scholarships. This debate we are promoting today is about some of these things, but it is above all to put on the country's agenda the mechanisms and instruments, such as the appropriate policy options, to convert the production of research and development into innovation, and thus in value, in line with what we have done with the Interface Programme or collaborative laboratories, to help transfer knowledge to the market, but also with the encouragement to hire researchers by companies and, no less important, with the encouragement to attract external technological investment. This debate is also to remind those who ask for everything at the same time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u107	... as if there were not tomorrow—are more wages, be more social benefits, be less precarious, be less tax—that all this is not possible if the country does not worry about creating value, being competitive or increasing its productivity. The only way for this to happen is to be all called upon to ensure that this path of making science and knowledge the central pillar of development will never, ever again, stop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u108	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this brief final intervention I can only confirm what is today consensual in Portugal and outside Portugal — we will reverse the divergence process for Europe, which has been accentuated between 2011 and 2015, and today we are reconverging for Europe. Statistical data are clear, public and private expenditure in research and development increases more than EUR 500 million, accompanying the increase in GDP, with the increase in expenditure greater than the increase in GDP itself, and therefore we reconverge with Europe. But we converge differently from previous growth processes, because we have tried and effectively managed to strengthen territorial cohesion with the competitiveness of our system, especially through the densification of the territory and the diversification of our scientific policy strategies, creating jobs. Today, Portugal is seen by Brussels, Paris or Berlin as a success case, where the relationship between knowledge and employment is effective. In the scientific system, we created more than 8000 researchers, when measured in full-time equivalents, representing more than 20 000 people, of whom more than half are in companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies. The data published today from research statistics in companies are very clear: we have again strengthened our largest companies, we have attracted international companies to Portugal, but we have considerably expanded the number of small and medium-sized companies that today have innovation activities. For the first time, we have more than 1600 companies, particularly SMEs, reporting research and development expenditure, and we have more than 100 companies with an effective expenditure of EUR 1,5 million per year. We did so by strengthening the Public Administration, so we increased the number of researchers in state laboratories and higher education institutions. And unlike previous periods, in this period we increased the number of students, who in higher education increased 4 %, accompanying an increase in the allocation of higher education institutions by 10 %. This was also done with a growing effort of perception that others in the world have of Portugal. To this end, we have increased by 48 % the number of international students, who in Portugal now represent 13 % of higher education. Is that enough? Don't! It is good, it is excellent and it shows the effort that everyone — the institutions, students, student associations, in collaboration with companies — has been able to make. To this end, we doubled the number of international students in mobility in Portugal, and, compared to the last 20 years, we multiplied by eight times those who come to Portugal to study at least one semester or one school year and we multiplied by five times the number of Portuguese students who are in mobility in Europe today. Today, our presence is a reality and, therefore, we dignify higher education and also the relationship with employers. To verify and consolidate it in an active and pragmatic way, we have developed a strategy to strengthen the units and associated laboratories, but we also diversify the type of institutions so that we can effectively value what is job creation throughout the country. From Bragança to Faro, passing through Fundão, through Castelo Branco, through Barcelos or through the interior of the country, in Torres Vedras and Leiria, today we have centers that through knowledge create more and better jobs. But we must have the humility to look at these four years in order to have the ambition to do more and better, always fighting inequalities in access to higher education, also fighting demographic pressure by strengthening the internationalization of our institutions, while looking at the great challenges of digital transformation and climate change. For this reason, we have developed the National Initiative for Digital Skills and for the first time we have a supercomputer to operate in Portugal that gives access to European supercomputer networks, we have developed a strategy for artificial intelligence and, above all, we have created new jobs in the field of digital, especially with processes of skills conversion but also of upgrading skills, representing what is one of the challenges for Portugal and the Portuguese. Today, we are better than we were in 2015, we have more knowledge and the route is traced to 2030. We need to strengthen public investment and multiply private investment four times in order to reach the goals of a society at the best levels of European reference, which constitute our commitment and our mobilising action in the European context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u110	The next items on the agenda, with no time allocated for discussion, are as follows: from point 2 there is Bill No. 1219 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, established by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August ; point 3 is replaced by 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019 and of point 4 are set out in Resolution Nos 95 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization for the Establishment of a Office for the Ligation and Partnership of the Organization in Lisbon, signed in Rome on 4 December 2018, 96 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Convention on the Status of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, National Representatives and International Personnel, signed in Ottawa on 20 September 1951 between the Portuguese Republic and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, on the Statute of the NATO Information and Communications Agency in the Portuguese Republic and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in local elections of nationals of each of the States resident in the territory of theother , signed in Lisbon on 12 June2019. Before we proceed to the vote, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make an announcement to the House. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that Mr President has admitted draft resolution No 2239 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — General principles for awarding grants to support the political activity of Members. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u112	We shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 200 presences, to which are added 6, those of the Members. Deputies Cristóvão Crespo and Cristóvão Norte, from PSD, António Gameiro, João Azevedo Castro and Porfirio Silva, from PS, and Maria Manuel Rola, from the Block of Left, making a total of 206 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 852 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the death of Manuel de Almeida Cambra, who will be read by Mr João Pinho de Almeida. First, however, I would like to say that I join this vote, because I have an unforgettable reminder of the kindness of former Mr Manuel de Almeida Cambra. Please, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u113	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last morning of June 24th, Manuel de Almeida Cambra died. Born on July 8, 1929, in São João da Madeira, Manuel Cambra was about to celebrate his 90th birthday. the anniversary. ‘A strong and intransigent man in the political ideals that guide him’ thus defines the history of the city of São João da Madeira. It was in his land that he always began to develop professional activity in the area of civil construction. Since early on, he has participated in the civic life of the council and its association activity, being President of the Sanjoanense Sports Association, between 1965 and 1971. In 1984, he was elected President of the City Hall of São João da Madeira, by the CDS, his always party. He led the municipality until 2001, leaving a remarkable work. Its presidency is marked by the extraordinary development of the municipality: from roads of communication to social housing; from school equipment to cultural equipment; from sports infrastructure to the innovative pedestrian zone of the city centre. Often controversial, he never stopped carrying out the projects that he understood vital for the modernization of the municipality, being often recognized later by those who had criticized him. His innovative vision has always been associated with enormous courage. Manuel Cambra was a member of the Assembly of the Republic in the VI and IX Legislatures, elected by the CDS in the Aveiro circle. Between 2002 and 2005, he was a member of the Local Power Committees, the Public Works and the Analysis and Monitoring Committee of the Euro 2004, and he deserved the respect he already had as an author. Man of deep principles and convictions, always remained loyal to his CDS, proudly resisting appeals and seductions to follow other ways. The municipal mourning decreed by the authority and the mass presence of the Sanjoanenses in their last tribute are proof that Manuel Cambra will remain forever in the memory of the city and its people, but also that this memory largely extravagants the limits of the municipality. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to Manuel de Almeida Cambra and presents the feelings to his family, the authority of São João da Madeira and the CDS-PP".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u114	Thank you, sir. Several councillors of the Chamber of São João da Madeira and many relatives of Manuel Cambra are present at the gallery. Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The vote on vote No 850 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings for recognition of the possibility of civil marriage between people of the same sex in Taiwan and Ecuador. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 11 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Bruno Vitorino, Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, Emídio Guerreiro, Emília Cerqueira, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Maria Luís Albuquerque, Miguel Santos, Pedro do Ó Ramos, Rubina Berardo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u115	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u116	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u117	Mr President, it is only for the CDS-PP to announce that we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u118	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 851 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the repression of protesters at the 25 April bridge ordered by the authoritarian PSD government and of solidarity with its victims. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and 2 PS (Assent Simões and Fernando Rocha Andrade).]] [[PSD protests.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2224 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Paris. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for Resolution No 2225 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Germany. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the vote on 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstentions of the NAP and of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 95 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization for the Establishment of a Office for the Ligation and Partnership of the Organization in Lisbon, signed in Rome on 4 December 2018. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 96 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Convention on the Status of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, National Representatives and International Personnel, signed in Ottawa on 20 September 1951 between the Portuguese Republic and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, on the Statute of the NATO Information and Communications Agency in the Portuguese Republic. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 97 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in local elections of nationals of each of the States, resident in the territory of the other, signed in Lisbon on 12 June 2019. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will vote in general in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 1219 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — Extension of the validity of the Independent Technical Observatory for Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation of Forest and Rural Fires occurring in the National Territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2003 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) : — Clarification of the criteria for the remuneration of higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u119	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u120	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u121	Mr President, it is to announce that on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group I intend to make an oral vote on this vote at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u122	Mr President, you will do so at the end of your work. Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2194 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government support for the recovery of Monchique municipality. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2118 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary Programme of Support to the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the Promotion of Housing, for which the PSD was required to vote separately. So, Mr. Members, let us first vote on the body or foreword of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on the resolution part of the draft resolution No 2118 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u124	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u125	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u126	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u127	Mr President, I would like to point out that Mr Pereira and I will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u128	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on draft resolution No 2086 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 1 PS Member (António Cardoso), votes against 2 CDS-PP (Philipe Anacoreta Correia and Ilda Araújo Novo) and abstentions from PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u129	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u130	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u131	Mr President, it was to correct my vote on draft resolution No 2118 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), because my vote is "against". It does not change the outcome of the vote, but I would like to see it corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u132	That was already last year... [[Laughing.]] Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u133	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a written declaration of vote on draft resolution No 2086 / XIII / 4. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u134	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will then vote on draft resolution No 717 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote alternative means of resolving consumer disputes. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the PAN, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 718 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to train, inform and monitor consumer rights, the text of which has been replaced in committee. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 727 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a more effective consumer information culture. This is an initiative whose text was also replaced in committee and for which the PS, BE and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira requested the separate vote from each of their points. Therefore, we shall first vote on paragraph 1 of draft resolution No 727 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on point 2 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of BE, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We are now voting on point 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE and the PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Finally, we are voting on point 6, as well as on draft resolution No 727 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u135	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u136	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u137	Mr President, I just wanted to mention that you did not announce how the PS voted point 3 of this draft resolution, but the PS voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u138	Mr President, I have the Secretary's indication that the PS vote has been announced, but we always like to hear. The general vote on draft resolution No 2190 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Extension of the free availability of insulin continuous infusion system therapy to individuals over 18 years of age. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 9. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No 2211 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the participation of the continuous infusion system of insulin ( SPCI ) for control of diabetes mellitus for older than 18 years. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is also down to 9. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 1847 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Combating road weakness. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 2147 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a set of actions aimed at combating road-trafficking. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative also goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1756 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to correct flight anomalies and provide adequate assistance to passengers to autonomous regions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We are voting now, in general, the Bill No. 451 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Strengthen consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now proceed to the vote on Bill No. 361 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Other Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September prohibiting expressly serious practices that are harmful to the physical integrity of animals, such as "cat burning" and shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as target, the text of which was replaced at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u139	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u140	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u141	Mr President, I have already put this question to the Bureau, but I would like to record that we shall vote on this bill and the other two texts which do not correspond to those which have been discussed in general in plenary. These are initiatives which have been discussed in plenary, which have gone down to the committee without a vote, which in committee have been subjected to a vote which has rejected all its articles, and the NAP has decided to replace the text which will now be put to the vote in general. We have many doubts that this can be done in this way, because it seems to us that what was needed was to present a new bill. We note that the precedent for these initiatives is created and that, of course, if another parliamentary group understands that we will have to do the same. We have a very complicated precedent, if we generally vote on what has not been discussed in general. [[Congratulations from the PCP and from the PS and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u142	Mr. João Oliveira, as you know, the Bureau also had the greatest doubts about the possibility of this vote being done and it was in the vote script only because all the banks expressed their opposition to this. It was even asked today whether there was any opposition to the CFP and it was said that it was not. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Bill No. 361 / XIII / 2. a (PAN), which I have already identified. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and 6 PS (Ascenso Simões, João Soares, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Maria Augusta Santos and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputy Paulo Trigo Pereira and 11 PS (Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Pedro Delgado Alves, Ricardo Bexiga and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 502 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — establishes the mandatory presence of a health inspector in certain venatoria acts. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The general vote of Bill No. 724 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Amend the Penal Code and Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of abuse of animals and related articles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u143	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u144	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u145	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the vote that we shall make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u146	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u147	Mr President, by subscribing, first of all, everything that has been said by Mr João Oliveira, right now, about this regimental revenge, I have in my script, and I think that all the honourable Members. Members also, three votes for this project: in general, in speciality and overall final vote. Now, with regard to this bill, about which it was constituted, at the beginning of 1. the Commission, a working group, where dozens of entities and experts were heard, which was rejected and then replaced, and what we are now voting on is a completely different and new text, I would like to ask whether the three votes in the script will be taken in this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u148	Mr President, I have already explained to Mr. João Oliveira why this vote was kept in the script. This cannot cause any sort of precedent for the future and it only went forward, because all the benches agreed that this vote should be taken. [[PSD protests.]] And, in this case, it is just the general vote, no more being done. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 724 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Amend the Penal Code and Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of abuse of animals and related articles. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS, BE, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u149	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u150	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u151	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group would like to make an oral vote on this last vote, since the bill has been dropped, there will no longer be any votes and what we have done is similar to a comprehensive final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u152	Mr President, at the end of the debate it will use the floor for this purpose. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u153	Mr President, I would like to announce, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, that we are going to make a statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u155	Mr President, it is to announce that we intend to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u156	This will be done at the end of the debate. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft Law No 438 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — determines the subjection of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to the necessary arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and determines the obligation to set up a lawyer in consumer actions. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the committee committee on this bill. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the same Bill No 438 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u157	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u158	Please, Mr. Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u159	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u160	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 1651 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas railway connection ( Caia ) in the field of freight transport; 1652 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas railway connection ( Caia ) in the transport of passengers; and 1681 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the stopping of freight trains in the Alentejo, particularly in Évora, New Sales and Marble Area ( Estremoz, Borba, Vila Viçosa and Alandroal ), but also the use of the whole line in the transport of passengers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote, in general, on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 161 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now have a request by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of the proposal for an addendum to Article 14. o -A (Suspensive effects) to the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 161 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), which we have just voted in general. The CFP wishes to submit the request, and I give the floor to Mr João Dias, who has two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How many land without a known owner are there in Portugal? It is that, despite a year and a half of being in progress a pilot experience for land registration in 10 municipalities in the country, the government is not able to indicate even a dozen. Actually, you can't indicate any! No one was found! We therefore bring to the plenary a proposal to suspend for 10 years the decree-law on the so-called 'land without owner'. The Government knew that the content of this initiative had already been rejected by this Parliament in 2017, but it published it. And 45 years after 25 April, it was the PCP again defending the small and medium-sized owners, making them safe from the gula of the land concentration, which is now supported by the PS government. [[PS protests.]] The Civil Code already states that what does not own is the property of the State, which, in case of finding something under these conditions, must request the court to declare it. To facilitate this process by transforming it into a mere administrative record, it can only indicate the greed to catch lands of elderly and emigrants who are unable to register. [[PS protests.]] Asking-CL is going to be: how did you get here? On the one hand, because the PS government, which develops a crusade against small owners, has decided to associate this decree law with a process which is not the registration and which questions the future and legal certainty in the registration of properties, seeking a « scapegoat » that may cover the options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, and which are the origin of the gross fires of 2017. On the other hand, because the PSD, as a catavenger at the service of the PS games, again gave the saying for not saying and voted against, in committee, precisely contrary to what it had voted in the working group. PS and PSD, always together, when it comes to attacking the smaller ones! Open... [[PSD and PS protests.]] During the speciality discussion, the PS stated that, with the suspension of the decree, the Government's bill lost its full effectiveness. There must be someone waiting for all this effectiveness!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u162	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u163	I'm done now, Mr. President. There are certainly great interests waiting for the land of the small owners. They won't do it with the PCP vote! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members of the Bureau shall record the request for a word by the PSD, the PS and the BE, and for this purpose the Bureau shall give two minutes to each parliamentary group. Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u165	Mr President, it was only a matter of hearing the PCP question that is the PSD's understanding of private property! That's all I needed! [[PSD applause.]] It was only what was missing from a Communist Member of the Alentejo, who well knows what land occupations are, to come to talk about private property. That's all I needed! That's all I needed! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, we did not agree with the proposal put forward by the Government, we did not agree that a plate should be placed on the ground of a private person and that it should be said: 'This is state! » With this, the PSD did not agree, and did not agree! And you know what the PSD did? He presented alternative proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u166	Not one! Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u167	... precisely for this situation not to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u168	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u169	Mr President, the government has retreated on this matter, and it has done very well! It was intransigent! The government has retreated on this matter! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The PSD has always defended cadastral information, especially in areas where it is necessary. We did this when we were in the government, we had pilot projects in Oliveira do Hospital, Arganil and other areas, and we understand that this must be done. That is why, Mr President, by avoiding, especially in the case of emigrants and the aged rural population, and also in cases of disputes between owners, the Government would place such a plaque on those lands — let us avoid this — what did we propose? The insertion of a simplified regime for owners: communication...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u170	Where is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u171	Mr President, the Government has already accepted and has said publicly. [[PCP protests.]] You've accepted! What we proposed was the communication by the Tax Authority to all building owners...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u172	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. It was three minutes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u174	It was two minutes, Mr. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u175	As I was saying, we proposed the communication by the Tax Authority to all holders of registered rustic buildings; the wide publicity of the legal regime in the media, using RTP International and RTP Africa, to reach the migrants precisely...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u176	Mr President, I ask you to understand and finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u177	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. We have also proposed advertising in local communication bodies and in the editorials of the authorities, precisely for everyone to be aware of the information and not to happen what the PCP likes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u178	I have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques, which has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u179	Mr. President and Mr. Members : Deliriums and noise separately, what the Portuguese want is solutions. Today is a decisive day for the reform of the forest, for the enhancement of the interior and for the future of our country. The abandonment of rural space and desertification created a total disorder of the forest. The way to reverse this situation is by relaunching the forest economy, an economy that promotes forest regeneration and cleaning. And the knowledge of the territory and its owners is essential in order to gain scale and raise awareness for the professional and collective management of these territories, creating value where so far no opportunity has been seen. The forest must no longer be a threat to the people and it must become an opportunity. The step that will be taken today, the enlargement of the simplified registration system to the entire national territory, which has been tested in 10 municipalities, is a crucial step in this forest reform. And we can't waste any more time, we can't put another 10-year brake in this process; we have a duty to contribute to protect our forest, our populations, now! We must strengthen carbon dioxide and thus combat climate change, we must promote the exploitation of the interior and the resilience of the territory. Creating barriers to this initiative is a serious political irresponsibility, which you assume, for the future of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u180	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD brings us here a number of perfect political juggling. To justify your withdrawal from the committee's initial vote, it is here to say that there has been a negotiation with the government and that everything has been changed. Well, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed! Keep it all the same! The only thing that has been changed was the PSD position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u182	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u183	... and everything indicates that the first vote was a pure mistake, and nothing more. That is, in fact, consistent! This second PSD vote is consistent with the PSD policy! [[PSD protests.]] The PSD agrees with private property — we know - but it agrees, above all, at the moment, with the concentration of private property in the great forest interests, and this is the central problem that is put here. What the PSD is doing right now, with this amendment of vote, is defending the great forest interests. [[PSD protests.]] It must be said, and this is very clear here, that the Left Block agrees with the simplified registration process, but this debate has nothing to do with it. We agree that there is identification of rural property, as is obvious, there is no party that has defended more registration than the Left Block over the past few years,... [[PSD and PS protests.]] ...what we want to know is what is done following the identification of the property. That's the central problem! And what PSD and PS are defending is the delivery of the so-called land without ownership to a company S.A. (anonymous society) Florestgal, which, immediately thereafter, can give them to the celluloses, to the great forest interests and, after 15 years, can sell them to third parties, including. That's what we don't want! We want to defend the interests of small producers and small forest owners. We do not want to give up the land, we do not want what has led to the dramatic situation we live today in the forest in Portugal. What PS and PSD want is that they continue everything in the same way: the increase in the number of eucalyptuses, the increase in the number of pine-bravo and not the diversification of the forest. That's the central problem that's put here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u184	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. It's been the two minutes you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u185	Mr. President, I will finish. The Left Block defends the aggregation of forest property management, and you defend the private concentration of major forest interests. That's the difference! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u186	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u187	Mr President, it is true that this bill reverses the burden of proof, in view of the law of the land without known owner, of 2015, this situation that the CDS has always criticized. It is also true that this bill does not ensure the necessary disclosure, even reinforced by the reversal of the burden of proof, because it is necessary to ensure that no one ceases to register its building due to ignorance. It is also true that the recognition of land without ownership and its integration into the sphere of State only occurs at the end of the period of freeness which the law provides, of four years. It was by the hand of the CDS that Mr. Secretary of State of the Communities was asked to listen to the working group and it was by the hand of the CDS that two amendments were introduced. One concerns wide dissemination and publicity both in Portugal and abroad through the diplomatic and consular network, approved unanimously, and the other concerns the preparation of an evaluation report, at the end of three years, i.e. before the end of the period of free circulation, so that we can assess the possible extension of the deadlines laid down in the law. This amendment was adopted with the abstention of the PS. For all this, the CDS presented these amendments so that we could precisely amend the law before the end of the period of free circulation, if necessary. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only three years from now that this is going to be a question and the CDS can only say that the government and the PS have wanted to do this without any need, because this situation will only happen within three years. By the hand of the CDS, we will be able to evaluate this situation and change the law to ensure that no owner ceases to register his buildings and his land because he does not know about the registration process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u188	Finally, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u189	Mr. President, the rustic register is essential to get to know the territory and to know the territory of the rural world in Portugal. No one, like the PCP, has been hit over the years for a rustic record. But the register cannot be used to hide what is behind the tragedy of the fires we had in 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u191	... nor can it be used to boil the small owners and concentrate the land on the great owners. [[PCP applause.]] Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, spoke about the PSD's position in this area. When it was necessary to end latifundia, to provide food and employment for agricultural workers who worked on the land and lived in poverty, the PSD stood by the side of the landowners against the agricultural workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u192	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u193	Today, when it is necessary to defend the small owners against the circle of their lands, to hand them over to the great owners, again, the PSD is placed next to the great property, next to the latifundium. [[PCP applause.]] No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! This registration process associated with the government's decree-law will lead to the concentration of land ownership and we bring here the proposals that can prevent this from happening. It will not be by the vote of the PCP that small owners, the elderly, the migrants will be left without their land, so that they will be delivered to the great owners. The discussion we are having here today could not have been necessary. If the PSD had not been put in the PS pocket again, voting in the Commission contrary to what it had voted in the working group, this question could have already been resolved!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u194	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u195	The PSD again gave the floor for not saying: it approved in the working group the proposal of the CFP that solved this problem, but, tightened by the PS, it jumped into the pocket and changed the direction of vote in the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, if they don't want to be hair stick in relation to what the PS decides... [[PSD protests.]] ... try to vote in line with what they have voted for in the working group, try to approve this proposal of the CFP and try to defend small owners so that they do not leave their lands and that they cannot then be handed over to the great owners. [[PCP applause.]] [[Four years! Four years!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u196	I would ask you to keep quiet so that we can continue the work. We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 14 ( 1 ). o -A (Suspensive Effects) to the replacement text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered Member, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The entry into force of this Act shall suspend, for a period of 10 years, the application of Decree-Law No 15/2019 of 21 January 2019.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u197	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 14 ( 2 ). o -A (Suspensive Effects) to the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the non-registered Member and abstention from the NAP.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The Government shall be obliged to publish an annual report on the application of the scheme provided for in this Act, with the breakdown of its information, in particular on the identification of parcels, the owner of which has not been able to identify.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u198	We then continue to vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP, subject to the addition of Article 14 ( 3 ). o -A (Suspensive Effects) to the replacement text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered Member, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The replacement of Decree-Law No 15/2019 of 21 January in force, ending the period provided for in paragraph 1, shall depend on the law of the Assembly of the Republic after consideration of the reports referred to in the previous paragraph.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u199	We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 161 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member, the votes against the PCP and the Greens and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let's move on to another subject now. We shall vote in special terms on the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 188 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the law of military infrastructure. First of all, we shall vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the National Defence Commission, on the above-mentioned bill. The vote will have to be done electronically and I therefore ask the services which prepare the electronic framework and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who stand up and carry on their own button. [[Pause.]] [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, with 162 votes in favour (78 PS, 68 PS and 16 CDS-PP), 18 votes against (BE) and 18 abstentions (1 PS, 13 PCP, 2 Os Verdes, 1 PAN and 1 non-registered Member).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u201	Madam Member, before you give the floor, I will inform you. Ladies and gentlemen, the session is not over yet! I ask you not to stand up or, then, to leave quickly. I will not proceed with the vote in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u202	The votes should all be seated!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u203	We are in the middle of the vote! Please, Mrs. Eurídice Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u204	Mr President, I would like to inform you that my vote was not recorded but that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u205	Be registered. Mr. Pedro Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u206	Mr President, I wanted to say that I could not register, but I voted against the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u207	Be registered. Mr. Santinho Pacheco, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u208	Mr President, I also report that my vote has not been recorded, but I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Marques, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u210	Mr President, it is for the same reason that my vote was not recorded either, but I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Antonio Gameiro, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u212	Mr President, I would like to say that this management did not register my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u213	I'm sorry, sir, but it's registered. [[Laughing.]] The management has wide backs, by the way. In any event, the latter indications of a sense of vote do not alter the final outcome of the vote. The outcome of the vote was clear. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, paragraphs 70 to 80, concerning plenary meetings held on 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 24, 25 and 26 April 2019. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We also have a number of opinions from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be put to the vote. Mr. Duarte Pacheco will now please read these same opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u214	Mr President, the first opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to a court case, to be held in the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, identified with paragraph 1062 / 18.7T9AVR, and is in the interest of authorising Mr Ulisses Pereira ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the car under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u215	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u216	Mr President, it is now important to take into account an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which concerns the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ), an electoral circle of Lisbon, being replaced by Ricardo Leon, on 1 July 2019, limiting itself to the period of the day previously indicated and ending at the end of the designated day. The opinion is in the sense of suspension of the mandate and the replacement in question is to be admitted, since they comply with the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u218	We now have another opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which concerns waiver and replacement in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies, of Deputies Maria Manuel Leitão Marques ( PS ), electoral circle of Viseu, by Lúcia Fernanda Ferreira de Araújo Silva, with effect from 2 July 2019, including. The opinion is to waive the mandate and the replacement is to be admitted, as legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u220	We now have another opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which concerns waiver and replacement in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Deputies, of Deputies Margarida Marques ( PS ), electoral circle of Leiria, by João Paulo Ferreira Pedrosa, with effect from 2 July 2019, including. The opinion is to waive the mandate and the replacement is to be admitted, as legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u222	We shall then proceed to a final opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which concerns the waiver and replacement in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies, of Deputy Isabel Santos ( PS ), electoral circle of Porto, by João Miguel Castro Fonseca, with effect from 2 July 2019, including. The opinion is to waive the mandate and the replacement is to be admitted, as legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Clearly, these three Members give up their mandate in order to carry out a new mandate in the European Parliament. I wanted, as I did yesterday personally, to wish all of them the greatest political and personal happiness in this new stage of their lives. Many happinesses! [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u224	Let us turn to the oral explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u226	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u227	Mr President, on the explanations of vote concerning draft Law No 724 / XIII / 3. a, of the NAP, and having not registered me on time, I still ask the Bureau to accept my request to also make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u228	Mr President, the Bureau does not accept your request, not only because it has not been registered in time, but because it is only in the Rules of Procedure that there are oral explanations of vote on behalf of parliamentary groups. The honourable Member, as you know, is not part of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u229	It is true, Mr President, but there have already been a number of exceptions to that rule. A short time ago, we saw a declaration of vote on behalf of the CDS-PP leader in a vote. The Rules of Procedure also provide that oral explanations of vote are only and only for global final votes, which is not the case. The vote here has generally been taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u230	That is another reason, Mr. The fact that it is not a comprehensive final vote is a third reason why it should not intervene. You have the floor to make an oral vote on draft resolution No 2003 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Clarification of the criteria for the remuneration of public higher education teachers, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution on the remuneration progress of public higher education teachers from the PSD initiative, which we have just voted on, says a lot about the PSD we have today. It is known that higher education, university and polytechnic teachers have a more demanding performance assessment than other workers in the general scheme of workers in public functions. This increased requirement is reflected in the statutes of their careers, which resulted from negotiations between government and trade unions. This heritage of valorization of higher education careers deserves no respect for this PSD that we have today. What the PSD has brought today to vote—not consistent with what it has voted for a few weeks ago— means that the PSD we have today wants the basis of the evaluation of higher education teachers to be the general regime of workers in public functions and wants to destroy the specific performance evaluation regime framed by the statutes of these careers. at the same time, the PSD that we have today attacks the autonomy of higher education institutions, intending that the government give instructions to institutions in matters which are within the competence of the institutions themselves, trying to take the margin conferred by law to set their own evaluation regulations, in accordance with the strategies and own profile of each institution. For our part, in the PS, having done all this legislation to work for the replacement of rights, we prided ourselves on having turned to the progress and remunerative valuations also in higher education careers, which count only in the State budget this year, with a ceiling of EUR 18, EUR 5 million. But valuing the teaching careers of higher education is certainly not, as the PSD we have today, trying to destroy the specific performance evaluation regime, nor to attack the autonomy of institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u232	We also have two oral explanations of vote, both relating to Bill No. 724 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Amend the Penal Code and Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of abuse of animals and related articles. So you have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group would like, firstly, to greet Mr President for expressly saying that in the vote on the bill that is at issue, what has been done — and that the PSD considers it to be a regiment — it will not be a precedent. That is why we would like to welcome this statement by Mr Exa. In fact, it cannot be understood how, after a draft law on this matter has been submitted — which is so relevant to us — after being set up a working group, after having heard dozens and dozens of entities and experts, after the NAP, the proposer has not submitted a single amendment proposal and after this matter has been reprobated in the field of expertise in 1. the Commission, appears a completely new replacement text which, above all, comes in the vote script with the three votes and so the subject was closed. In other words, it was proposed to vote on a proposal which was simply not discussed, nor was it even known by the generality of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. It does not seem to us that this is the best way to deal with this or other matters of legislative interest. More: the PSD vote was against, not just for regulatory reasons, but because the NAP proposal has the characteristic of creating doubts rather than clarify. There are some shortcomings in the animal abuse law. The PSD would even be available to solve them; however, the PSD will only deal with these and other problems seriously and responsibly and cannot accept a rule that says it is punished who causes the death of the animal, regardless of the reason, regardless of the cause, regardless of the reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u234	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President. It does not seem to us that systematic interpretation can help; on the contrary, it is a legislative determination — if it was adopted, and it was not! — which would only cause confusion, only cause concern, which is neither serious nor responsible, and therefore the PSD voted against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u236	I have already had the opportunity to explain that it did not constitute a precedent for what happened with this project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u237	I saluted Mr. President for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u238	I was informed that there was consensus between all the banks and that is why this vote was taken. You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting precisely with the legislative issue, which is not minor, it is in fact a matter which must be fully clarified for the future. Indeed, it is not today that we have opened a background, he has already existed. In the past, it was possible and there were, at least in the previous legislature, moments of replacement of the text before the vote, times when it did not take place and, indeed, it is necessary to sign a single option which is consistent for all the votes in the future. Once again, I made a replacement for a text. It is, in fact, important that it be clarified and it is likely that the next legislature will be able to address it. In fact, what is being discussed today, following the acceptance of this vote, is a legislative initiative, and it was a legislative initiative that was voted on. What the PSD is looking for, with the intervention it has just done, is to hide what, in fact, is its discomfort about the vote it has just done. It is true that in this very legislature there was a discussion of this theme in 1. the Legislative Session, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented a bill in everything similar to this, today voted, which aimed to clarify aspects that were poorly resolved in the legislation on the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals, and the PSD voted against this initiative, exactly in the same terms as it did today. What makes it different, incomprehensible and, at the bottom, revealing some of the PSD in this matter—or perhaps revealing the desire to take advantage of a theme which has been found to concern many people and which puts the issue on the table—is the fact that it has presented a legislative initiative, which has entered into the Bureau of this House of the Republic still this month, in which it proposes, even more than the proposal presented by the PS, the criminalization of the death of the animal, and still foreseeing a criminal framework that goes up to three years, which is superior to that which has been voted here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u240	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u241	In terms of consistency and in terms of position that the PSD brings here, we understand the discomfort. Today, he set up a file not to vote on what, with a mere electoralist purpose, he entered the Bureau when he always opposed this matter. I would like to welcome the PSD for coming to this debate and for realizing the need to change the law, but unfortunately I will not be able to do so. Finally, on the matter of substance — the only thing Mr Abreu Amorim has mentioned — as regards what could be improved in the project, namely to clarify, if necessary, that these are only cases where there is no legitimate reason for the death of the animal, the way in which we work in this Parliament is to do this, precisely by means of amendments,... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] ...to be discussed in the specialty, which was what would have happened if VV. Ex.as had voted in favour of the project, in line with the one who presented and subscribed less than 15 days ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-28.u242	It remains to be announced the agenda for the plenary meeting on Tuesday, 2 July, beginning at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. In the first point, we will have political statements, following the second point, the assessment of Petition No 438 / XIII / 3. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Establishment of legislation to prohibit chicken races in Portugal together with Bill Nos 1095 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition of racing dogs best known by race of chickens and 1225 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ban chicken races and other dogs. of the third point is the assessment of Petition No 520 / XIII / 3. a ( Filipe Nuno Gouveia Ferreira et al.) — They request Portugal to sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons together with the Draft Resolution Nos 1081/ XIII/3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, for ratification, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by the United Nations, on 7 July 2017, 1864 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, 1954 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and 1958 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Finally, in the fourth point, there is the discussion of Petition No 522 / XIII / 3. a ( Eduardo da Fonte Ferreira et al.) — They call for the conversion and integration of the Psychiatric Hospital of Lorvão into the National Network of Continued Care in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 1889 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of an integrated continuous care unit and rehabilitation at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, 1903 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, thus increasing the number of public beds on this network, and 1956 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — The implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão (Penacova). We are thus done with our work. I wish everyone a good weekend. Until Tuesday, 14 hours and 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 27 minutes.]]
