ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Let us begin our plenary meeting, whose agenda has as its first point the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). To open the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Moderate rates are a barrier to access to health care — the end point! in most cases, they are beheadings that force the user to pay, a second time, for what he has already paid with his taxes. They don't moderate access, they stop access. Every year hundreds of thousands of consultations and medical examinations are due to the price of moderate rates. It's not just the Block that says it, it's even the New University of Lisbon, that gives us this data every year. I give some examples: in 2017, only the cost of moderate rates will have prevented the holding of 490 000 consultations in primary health care, of 250 000 consultations of hospital specialty, of 150 000 diagnostic examinations. It is true that these numbers have already been much more dramatic, especially after the huge increase in moderate rates that the PSD and CDS-PP carried out in 2012,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u4	... but it is also true that 2018 data are not very different from those I've already approached. We're talking about consultations that the user needed to have with his family doctor, but he couldn't have because he couldn't pay. We are talking about consultations on ophthalmology, cardiology, urology, otorrin and so many other specialties, fundamental to the user, but to which the user failed because he could not pay. We're talking about tests that the doctor had prescribed, necessary for the diagnosis and evaluation of the person's health status, but that were never done, because the user could not pay. Can the country live well with this reality? No, you can't. More than that: you should not live well with this reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That is why the Left Block brings the debate to a bill that, if approved, will end the moderate rates in primary health care and in everything prescribed within the National Health Service ( SNS ). If we want — we think we should want — an increasingly targeted National Health Service for the prevention of disease, for the promotion of health, for the close monitoring of the user, a SNS that intervenes before the user gets sick or before the disease gets worse, then we have to give more access to primary health care. These are the care through which the family team follows more closely the user, makes the surveillance of his/her health status, controls the pathologies and where, after all, the health of the population is promoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u6	It doesn't make sense that there are barriers to access to primary health care. It doesn't make sense that a consultation in the health centre is more expensive than a specialist consultation in ADSE ( Institute of Health Protection and Care in Disease ). It does not make sense that there are half a million consultations in primary health care that are not carried out annually because of moderate rates. If we want, as we should like, to ensure that the moderate rates are not just an euphemism for a capped overcrowding, then we have to end the false moderation rates, where nothing is moderated, only access is limited. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean to charge a moderate fee for an examination which has been prescribed, for example, by the family doctor? If prescribed, it is because the doctor finds it necessary, then the user has to do it. What research will moderate this supposed moderate rate? Is this health care optional? Don't! This health care is necessary, otherwise it had not been prescribed. So why would you charge a so-called moderate fee? It makes no sense to charge fees for consultations and other health services prescribed by National Health Service professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the bill presented by the Left Block today, we guarantee that no one is deprived of essential health care because he cannot pay them. We also guarantee that a measure for which a majority has already been found and that it must move forward for the benefit of users is still being implemented in this legislature. This is a proposal that the Left Block also presented in the context of the discussion of the new Health Bases Act. The Socialist Party made a proposal with a similar wording, but which makes it dependent on its application of the amendment of the legislative framework. Well, here's that amendment to the law. That is the amendment to the law that we are bringing about today's debate. If there is agreement on this matter, then the moderate rates in these situations are over. We don't have to wait anymore. Concrete now, in this legislature! As it is known, there has been an impasse in relation to the Health Bases Law. The inflexibility of the Socialist Party, fearing to maintain the private management of the SNS in the Health Bases Act, is making a wider agreement difficult. In order to try to unlock the situation, the Left Block proposed that the discussion on PPPs (public-private partnerships) be for a next legislature, so that a Health Bases Act could now be approved, but the Socialist Party seems to be more interested in throwing the basic law at another time, in order to maintain public-private partnerships, now in the law. It is true that the Left Block will not give up — we reaffirm — until the last minute of the goal of having in Portugal a law of progressive basis, which strengthens the National Health Service and protects it from robbery, but it cannot be ignored that there are already those in the Socialist Party who close the door to any possibility according to the current legislation. We do not want obstinacy in defending PPPs to lose everything. Therefore, we say once again: if an agreement and a majority have already been established about the objective of ending moderate rates in primary health care and in everything prescribed by the National Health Service, then this measure is already implemented. Above all else, we'll see what interests speak higher. from the part of the Block, we continue to be available for a new Health Bases Act, but not for the privatization of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u7	Mr Moisés Ferreira, three Members have been registered to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u8	Mr. President, I will answer one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u9	You then have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Simão Ribeiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that responsible, conscious, moderate politicians, and above all non-populist political actors require a whole range of cross-cutting characteristics, including coherence, memory, seriousness, commitment and consequences in their proposals. Now, Mr. President, the Left Block agenda for today the discussion of a bill that exempts the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health care services, provided that referred to by the SNS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the PSD would praise, support and applaud this initiative, but it has a small one: it was presented last June 6th, a little more a week ago, having coincided—it seems to me! — with the final stage of the examination, in the specialty, of the Basics of Health Law. More: on the day this bill entered, the Health Bases Law Working Group had already approved a rule concerning the exemption of moderate rates, which, in fact, the PSD accompanied and which, by way of example, coincides entirely with what the Left Block here presents. Therefore, if the Left Block were a moderate, conscious, balanced and non-populist party, I would think that Mr. Members would be distracted when they presented this proposal. But given the way in which social communication has swarmed, in recent days, with the theme, since this diploma confirms what is your matrix of calculism and populism in politics, I leave the first question to you, Mr. Moses Ferreira. Knowing that you are presenting here a bill which, in all, confirms what has already been approved, I ask the following question: are you doing this on an electoral basis to raise more votes in the forthcoming elections, or do you do so because your confidence, at the end of four years, in your partners, those with you who rule the country, is absolutely null, i.e., equal to zero? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this question, in our view, makes even more sense when it is framed in the sad spectacle of the negotiation of the Health Bases Act that management has given to the country. Well, I don't understand the Socialist Party's successive reels, which I actually give you my reason, because they're not, in fact, easy to understand. Your coordinator, Mrs Catarina Martins, now with an optimistic discourse about the future and the exciting days that sing, now, last week, saying'shock', now surprised by the zighuzags of the Socialist Party, after four years, still says she is surprised by the zighuzags of the Socialist Party! Well, it's always good and always breaks monotony in a relationship like yours. at the end of so long, they still have the ability to surprise each other. Mr Moisés Ferreira, I reiterate that the Left Block presents this diploma for one of two reasons—and I would ask you to clarify: on a populist and electoral issue, to raise a vote, or on a question of total lack of confidence in your agreement with the Socialist Party and on the path that it has followed? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u11	To reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro for his questions. I'm certainly not going into the pre-election register I was already in... [[PSD laughter.]] We could talk a lot about memory, particularly the increase in moderate rates in 2012 to more than double, or we could talk about how they wanted the Tributary Authority to impose processes to which it did not pay the moderate rates. But it is not by memory that we are speaking, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u13	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u14	Mr President, you have pointed out, and well, that this subject was voted on in particular when we were discussing a new basic law. And he remembered, indeed, that I said a little ago, that the Socialist Party's proposal had a similar wording on this subject, but for some reason it was forgotten that this wording that the PSD accompanied — and we hope that it will also accompany the wording that we are bringing here today — had, in the end, the following "things": "in accordance with the law", i.e., the exemption of moderate rates in primary health care in all that is prescribed by National Health Service professionals, to be defined in accordance with the law. So, what the Left Block brings here are the terms of this law, is the realization of what the PSD actually says he was willing to follow in the new basic law when he discussed the speciality of this matter. The resulting position will therefore be that the PSD will follow this proposal, because, if it does not, it will only follow the development of a principle, but would then not follow the implementation of that principle.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u16	However, we propose the implementation of this principle and therefore we also hope that the PSD will follow up on the implementation of the one that was its vote when we discuss the new basic law in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u17	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs Joana Lima of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, the Block of the Left brought to debate its Bill No. 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ), which exempts the collection of moderate rates in health units where the source of reference for these is the SNS. All right, Mr President, we all agree to give everything to everyone, but there is a sense of responsibility at the moment. As Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro said, we will review the history of moderate rates, and we will start by the PSD/CDS-PP government to see how Portuguese were mistreated with this coalition with regard to moderate rates, and not only Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u19	Let us then turn to the facts : Law No 51 / 2013, amending the State budget for 2013, changes the system of exemption from moderate rates, creating in its Article 8. the, the counter-ordinations for the non-payment of moderate rates ; in 2015 the same PSD / CDS-PP government, by Decree-Law No 61 / 2015, once again amends the law, covering minors of age in the payment of fees ; also in 2015, another change obligates the payment of moderate rates to women in the event of IVG ( voluntary termination of pregnancy ). These are examples of how some users have been treated in the National Health Service by the PSD / CDS-PP coalition government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u20	in general, there was an increase in moderate rates. [[It was for those who could pay more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u21	So, as far as the sides on the right, we're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[It was for those who could pay more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u22	But with this government — and not all that has been done, there is still much to do — a set of rests and changes in the exemption from the moderate rates which certainly come to bring a luvada to our users and to the SNS. There are a number of exemptions—and not just exemptions—which the Socialist Party has implemented during these four years of governance, with the help of the left benches, is true. However, Mr President, let me tell you that I do not understand the opportunity of this bill. A very short time ago, we voted, as someone has already said, the proposal of the new Health Bases Act — I dare say, your bill is a copy paste — with regard to moderate rates. And you come to say « but it must be in accordance with the law». Obviously, it is in accordance with the law, but there is a sense of responsibility that we all have to take into account. Let's not, one day, change everything. Moderate rates represent 2 % of the SNS budget. Therefore, honourable Member, I see no sense of opportunity nor why this bill now, when we are already on the right path to approve the new Health Bases Law, going to meet what Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u23	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Lima, 'in terms of being defined by law' — this is the proposal which the Socialist Party itself presented in the field of expertise, as I have already pointed out. Therefore, if it is « in terms that are defined by law», it may be by the law that we approve here. Who said that was the Socialist Party. What we want with this proposal is to implement these terms. Furthermore, the budgets approved here by the Assembly of the Republic have repeatedly changed the moderate rates. in this legislation, even increased the exemptions of moderate rates. And it was the Assembly of the Republic that did it. For example, we have already succeeded in ending the coercive possibility of collection by the Tax Authority, which was provided for in the law decree of the moderate rates. And it was the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the Left Block, that did so. Therefore, when it is said that "we have to define by law" concerning moderate rates such is to be done within the Assembly of the Republic. And it is the Assembly of the Republic that can do it again. That is why we are bringing this bill here. The question is: does the Socialist Party agree, or not, that primary health care should not be charged with moderate rates? If you agree, then let's pass that law. Do you agree with the Socialist Party, or not, that everything that is prescribed by a National Health Service professional should not have moderate rates, because this is the most false of all moderate rates? If you agree, then we approve this today and it is already registered in law. There's no rush, Mrs. Member, but there's a majority here. There is a majority in this legislature and there is a mark of this majority that can be defined today. We do not want to push for later legislatures what we can already do in this legislature. It would be incomprehensible for the Socialist Party to say that it agrees with all this but did not want to approve this amendment to the law, in this legislature, when it knows that there is a majority to do so. The honourable Member spoke about the financial impact this measure may have or may not have. Well, the Minister of Health is the one saying that it is not the financial impact that concerns her, which represents relatively little of the budget of the National Health Service. Just read the papers—there is Mrs Health Minister's statement that this is not what concerns her. So, if you don't even worry about the Minister, shouldn't you worry about us here? In addition to this financial impact be reduced in the budget of the National Health Service, if we are admitting that these rates are false moderate rates, if we are admitting that there should be no such collection and if we say that they will continue, what we are doing is putting on users a responsibility and a financial weight that we should not put. We are transferring a responsibility that is from the State — to ensure the proper financing of the National Health Service — to families and to users who access the National Health Service and are paying more, unduly. In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that if we agree with this, if it is defined as "in terms defined by law", if there is a majority able to pass this bill, it is now approved. We are fully available to continue the debate in the field of expertise. But, it is now approved, it is not left for the uncertain future what we can now approve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u25	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the total health expenditure in Portugal, about 28 % is paid by families. of these 28 %, substantially 3 % — on average, over the last few years — relate to moderate rates and 25 % relate to pharmacy costs. Therefore, if there is indeed a barrier to access to the right to health protection, it is certainly in pharmacy expenses and not in moderate rates, although it is much more mediatic to have the discussion on a plot which is irrelevant,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u27	It's irrelevant to the CDS because the CDS has always raised them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u28	... because it is exceptional in 14 groups and 14 situations of care already today, and, as I said—and well—it has even been extended in this legislature. But it is much more interesting to have the discussion on this plot than on the other. In any case, this is even irrelevant, because this debate today is not about moderate rates — it should be, but it is not, as you said, and very well, Mr President, a debate on interests that speak the most loudly. And it is not even a pre-election debate, it is even an electoral debate now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u29	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u30	at this time, what we are discussing is a moderation not of rates, but of the positions between the Left Block and the PS. Mr President, a week ago we voted on these same rules in the Working Group on the Health Bases Act and the Bloc proposal was plummeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u31	We're spending our time in this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u32	The Block proposal has been dropped with the votes of the CDS-PP, PSD and PS! And he even abstained from the PCP, which has a more consistent position in this matter, because he essentially disagrees with moderate rates. There is therefore a fairly clear position in this House on the Block proposal. The honourable Member, today, presents it in another way, in the expectation that it will come down to discussion in the field of specialty and that, without any new facts in the specialty, the Socialist Party will come closer to its proposal. Actually, it doesn't matter, we could be discussing PPP, we could be discussing anything else, it's irrelevant...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u33	It's not, no! The Portuguese don't think it's irrelevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u34	It is a matter of political and electoral approximation between the Block and the PS. The question I am asking you, Mr President, is the following: what is going to happen in the field of specialty if the PS, after all, presents exactly the same proposal that has been adopted indirectly in the voting of the basic law? What is Mr. Deputy doing? Are we all here wasting time? Are we creating expectations for people just to draw? To see if, however, the gentlemen, out of the holofotes, do you understand? Mr President, we are not very interested in contributing to this, as we have said many times. So my question is simply this: if, in the specialty, the PS maintain its position, what will the Block do and what has served all this process? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u35	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the moderate rates certainly deserve a serious, deep, reflective debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u37	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u38	...that we obviously like to have with the CDS-PP, and that we will try to have within what is possible. however, we cannot fail to note that the CDS-PP leader tried to mark for the same time a press conference to announce legislative initiatives on other things and therefore is not present here with the CDS-PP,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...to debate moderate rates, which is the debate that is scheduled for today. Therefore, this debate is a little parallel to the CDS-PP, as it has also passed in the intervention of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, when she said that the question of whether to pay or not to have access to health care is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u39	Don't! What I said was that there are other more serious things. That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u40	For the CDS-PP is irrelevant, because it says there are already many people who are exempt, etc. Well, I don't know if you know people who receive a little more than, for example, 1, 5 IAS(indexant of social support) per month, this fortune of just over 600 €, and that are not exempt from anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u41	It depends! It depends!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u42	The question that we ask is the following: what is the answer given to these people who receive a little more than 600 € per month and who are not exempt from the payment of moderate fees due to economic insufficiency? They are people who have to go to their family doctor in one month; then, in that month, they have to do diagnostic tests that are marked by the family doctor; then, they have to go back to the consultation to show the results of the diagnostic tests; and, probably, they may still have to do some more follow-up examination. Now, for this person who receives just over 600 € and who has no dispensation this is a month in which he has a brutal spending on health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u43	But if it's for primary health care, it's not bad anymore?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u44	That is why there are so many hundreds of thousands of people who then lack primary health care consultations, specialist consultations and lack diagnostic examinations. It's these people we're talking about. We're not talking about irrelevance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u45	Me neither! I didn't use that word!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u46	...we're talking about the right, or there's no, to access health care. We are talking about the existence of barriers or the absence of barriers in access to health care. We know that this is probably irrelevant to the CDS-PP which, when it is in government, looks at users and thinks of them as a way to fund the National Health Service. But the moderate rates are not to finance the National Health Service. We do not accept that they serve as a barrier and that they harm people who, day by day, have difficulty accessing health care. in the Left Block, I beat us so that everyone can access health care without any kind of barrier. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u47	Let's now move on to the interventions. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that this measure has already moved forward. Since 2016, throughout the management of this Executive, this measure has advanced. It has advanced, achieved, and has already resulted in a reduction in moderate rates of about EUR 40 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u49	Between 2015 and today, there was a concrete reduction in the Portuguese pocket, clearly creating more access—by ensuring access with the reduction of moderate rates—to all those to whom it was vetoed by economic insufficiency, by being unable to pay, by various inhibitions that were placed by the moderate rates. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u50	This is a measure that this government has gradually, throughout the management of this Executive, taken into practice: with a reduction in the overall value of moderate rates, maintaining a focus on primary care, maintaining a focus on the user's orientation to health prevention within the SNS ; with a clear strengthening of primary health care—with greater coverage of the family doctor, with more consultations, with more professionals; and also seeking to reach new populations where it had not yet been possible, which were from the health care network. We intend to increase prevention and protection among these people too, with a view to adequate guidance and integrated coverage. We have also started this gradual process with the most fragile and vulnerable populations, because it is possible to reach them in a consolidated way, on a path that we want to lead to a reduction, according to which we proposed in the Health Bases Act, always in a logic to promote access and ensure proper prevention and referral to health. A strategy to differentiate to moderate, giving greater emphasis to unscheduled activity, differentiating positively, say and repeat, primary health care. I would like to point out that it was also in this line that we did and proposed the amendment approved in the framework of the Health Bases Act, consolidating this message, giving it body, because it is in the space of the Health Bases Law that it must be consolidated — not crystallized, but consolidated — and therefore it has been approved. We thus consolidated a very clear guidance path, which is a gateway to what we defend for the National Health Service: more primary care and more adequate access to complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, which are clearly referred to in primary care. So let's talk about charges. Moderate rates represent about 2 % of the SNS budget and we want this value to continue to decline. We have already reduced it by EUR 40 million since 2015, and thus guarantee the trendy logic for free and the reduction of this global amount. Therefore, the objective is that, increasingly, circumscribe it and appoint it to protect the health of Portuguese. I say and repeat: moderate rates serve to moderate and guide patients, do not serve or can be used to inhibit access, raise funding or promote a disease logic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS wants more SNS, believes in this path and defends it here and in the government. So we are here, we defend this spirit and we also defend this initiative, which is positive. It is the initiative that the PS has taken, that is the initiative that the PS has put forward within the framework of the Basic Law, so we say that, although there may be nuances in the specialty on how to implement it, we are essentially converging. This is the message and practice of this government and the PS. It's not a message that's foreign to us, it's our message, because that's what we did, that's what we practiced, and that's what we believe. in this topic, as in others, we preserve the essential, the common denominator, what interests the Portuguese, what interests the users. We believe that, in this way, we better serve the users, we better serve the quality, excellence and purpose of the National Health Service, which is to give the guarantee of health protection to Portuguese, and not another. And we all count on that, unlike many speeches, they carry out in acts, and not just in words, the right to health and the right to the protection of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u51	Mrs Deputy, three Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u52	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u53	You then have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u54	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, this consensus that we are seeking and that we will certainly be able to find on the moderate rates in case of medical prescription in the SNS, is important to protect the right to health in Portugal. One question is the following: if we can find this consensus on the defence of the right to health in Portugal, why will it not be possible to take the next step, with this majority, in order to be able to return to the country a law of bases which defends the right to health in Portugal and the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u56	For this, we have a founding text, made by Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo, which led to many subsequent discussions. For this reason, in this House of the Republic, we have a majority who does not run away from the terms in which the Prime Minister said that he would like this basic law to be passed, i.e. a majority who repeated that which approved the original SNS Basic Law ; a parliamentary majority which corresponds to a social majority and which includes experts, such as Ana Jorge or so many others, who also contributed to the National Health Service in Portugal. So what can divide us into building this consensus? What has always divided the left and the right, i.e. the possibility of the introduction of private interests in the management of what is public and in the management of what is everyone's? This is not original in this Parliament. The question of private management of public services, privatization of public services, divided left and right in the discussion of the Basics of Education Law, in the discussion of the Basics of Health Act and since the discussion of the Constitution. In all these discussions there was a very clear line that separated this Parliament from the left and right. Therefore, the question we are asking now is whether the Socialist Party will allow it to be the maintenance of three PPPs, which still provide a terrible service to the population, to prevent this consensus from being achieved and to do what has never happened, i.e., that the Socialist Party adopts a Health Bases Act with the right. Is the possibility of future PPPs that will cause what never happened, that is, to put the Socialist Party to pass a law of basis with the right to defend the interests of private management of the SNS?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u57	Did we pass the moderate fees to the Basics Law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u58	We well know how PSD and CDS get nervous about this discussion. In view of this discussion, they no longer want to know about the discussion of moderate rates,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u59	... they no longer care if they are free or not and are always nervous when the possibility of damaging the interests of private profit at the expense of the SNS is posed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u60	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u61	After this consensus on the protection of the right to health and the end of the moderate rates, which we hope to achieve today, we are sure that we will do so, the question is as follows: if this consensus was possible, despite the right, why is it not possible to agree on the law of bases which upholds the SNS? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u62	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I thank you for your question. I believe that, in part of my speech, I said that the Socialist Party is the party that puts the issues in terms of responsibility, consensus and preservation of the common denominator, seeking to move forward, trying to preserve the common denominator. This led us to the fact that, under the basic law, with 28 bases and about 85 points, we had approved at least one point of the bases. The result of that vote remains to be known. This has happened because we have preserved the common denominator, because we have worked for the result, because we have worked to achieve the essential, which is to ensure that support for private development is not the responsibility of the State to ensure that the mobilization of public professionals for the private sector is not the responsibility of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u65	It is essential to end the Health Bases Act of 1990. Our main goal is to consolidate that message. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's our common denominator, it's not another! We have the notion that in emergency, in exceptionality, in well-founded need, the country may need and should not crystallize a message in the Basic Law to, on the pretext of this, others come to open this door again. We have this notion and therefore we say 'in accordance with the law', in fact as it is practical in all basic laws. If the gentlemen. Members reread the bill and read again what you yourself have proposed in relation to point 2, on vulnerable populations, will see that you yourself say « in accordance with the law ». However, in relation to moderate rates, they said « immediately ». That is not the spirit of a basic law. It is necessary to speed up, create conditions and implement, in order to guide users. That is why we have also said — and that is the proposal on the table — that in the spirit and practice of what this government has done, which is absolutely clear about the management of PPPs, this government will put on the table in 180 days the decree to repeal and review the one currently regulating PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u66	Shouldn't we pay the private? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u67	We know what the principles of this government are, we know their orientation, we know the practice, we still preserve the common denominator. It's in the hands of the Left Block, both now and next Tuesday, say what you think. Whether or not you want to preserve the common denominator, which is the safeguard of a new Health Base Act? That's in your hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u68	Are PPPs the common denominator? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u69	Mr Luís Vales has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill of the Left Block we are discussing today has a curious objective: to bring to Parliament the « Forgive me » of the Health Bases Act. [[PSD laughter.]] The Left Block appeals to the Socialist Party for consensus and the Socialist Party tries to calm the Left Block, and they have converted the discussion we would have in a discussion about the Health Bases Law! I gave advice to the Left Block and the Socialist Party: they could have done it in private and had allowed us to discuss matters that are, in fact, of relevance, as is the case with the project under discussion in this House. [[PSD applause.]] Despite its obvious political opportunism, this project has the merit of convening us for a healthy and useful memory exercise. The left, within its simplistic and revisionist cartilage, maintains that one more right-wing error is now corrected—a little while ago Mrs Joana Lima said so—and that they would have been the PSD and CDS inventing, and later increasing, the moderate rates. But that's a lie, it's a lie and it's a lie! As has already been said in this debate, the first time a law came to provide for the establishment of moderate rates was the Arnaut law, which established the National Health Service, in 1979. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u71	As for the increase in these rates by the previous Government, the truth is that this increase was decided by the Socialist Government of José Socrates in 2011 to avoid bankruptcy, which was then imminent. [[PS protests.]] In other words, the PSD and the CDS executed what the PS had previously decided on behalf of the Portuguese State. It is therefore a blatant lie that initiative and responsibility belong to the former Government. And this lie becomes even more revolting coming from the Socialist Party, when we know that it was governmental responsible for this party that came out defending moderate rates in hospitalizations and SNS surgeries, or even worse the imposition of these same rates on children from 0 to 12 years old.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u73	from that question: can the PS deny the defense it made in the past of the existence of moderate rates, even in the so-called law Arnaut of 1979? But this discussion obliges a second question: knowing that the Left Block presented this project already after it has been approved, in the Working Group of the Health Basics Act, an identical norm of content, does there not seem to be here a mistrust of your management partners regarding the consistency of the PS in the negotiation of the Basics Law? You know that, even recently, Mr César, your parliamentary leader, publicly confessed that the PS and the government had to — and I quote — "work very hard with those who tell us to support", referring, of course, to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. I do not doubt that this attack reflects a genuine feeling, but, as our people say, "in the bed you will make, in it you will lie down".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u75	But the PSD also does not doubt the sincerity of Mrs Catarina Martins when, still this week, this fellow of yours has confessed to the inconsistencies of the PS's positions on the Health Bases Act. And there is a second question: with so much political opportunism, so much mistrust and so much zigzag, with a law of partially approved bases but which has more holes than a Swiss cheese, does it not seem to the PS that it is finally time to worry about people and concentrate on the very serious problems that the SNS faces, instead of feeding the ideological sectarianism of the extreme left and useless divisions among most Portuguese? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u76	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u77	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Luís Vales for his question, because at the beginning I doubted whether it was a question or an intervention, until it was more clearly addressed to the Left Block than to the PS. Taking advantage of the Coelho Decree of 29 November 2011, I do not believe there was any shadow of the socialist government on that date.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u79	We had the troika! There was already the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u80	This is where the famous transition of profits from the moderate rates of about EUR 90 million to a realisation in 2012 of around EUR 180 million begins. Look at that, double! Because of this decree, in accordance with the words of Mr Luís Vales, « fair» initiative of the PSD Government, which made the Portuguese pay for their health! In fact, it did worse: it inhibited the Portuguese, whom it all cut, to whom it all took, from reaching health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u81	It wasn't us! It was the Government of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u82	That's important to remember, this is where it's important to put your finger. It is important to say that the PSD has gone out of the discussion of the basic law, gets out of the protection of the National Health Service, gets out of the protection of users and, once again, says nothing about what you want or about what we know you want, which is just the privatization of health in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u83	Mr Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u84	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, I listened carefully to Mrs Joana Mortágua's question and also listened carefully to her reply, and for a few moments, I found that I was in the wrong debate because I thought this was a debate on moderate rates and, suddenly, it was a debate on basic law. But I'm not mistaken, it's still on moderate rates, is it? Oh, my God! [[PS and BE protests.]] I'm not wrong, then! It's just that, if not, it seems like I was right about the intervention I made a while ago and that this was about an understanding...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u85	Go on! Don't get in the way! Even because you have to go to the press conference next!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u86	The question is as follows: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, on this subject, within less than a year, has already held several positions. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] I explain: in September, he had the position presented in the proposed Basic Law of Prof. Maria de Belém Roseira, strictly on moderate rates. Then he had a second position, presented in December, in the motion for a Basic Law of Mrs. Minister, which, in good rigour, with a semantic a little different, does not have a very different intention than the initial one. Then he had a third position which clearly resulted from the negotiation with the Left Block, because he already divides by points differently, he already proposes this principle of the exemption of moderate rates in care, provided that they originate from primary health care but refer, as he does in the PPPs, to future regulation. Soon you can see, then, what it's good to do. Isn't it? Oh, my God! You never know what happens after the elections. In any case, in this proposal, they want to meet the Bloc proposal that has lost those guiding principles that the honourable Member spoke about here. For example, it came out of the wording that moderate rates should take into account the control of unnecessary demand and the orientation of demand for more appropriate answers. This has already disappeared from the editorial because, now, what matters is running against the Block. Mrs. Member, we're all watching the same film. It's a movie that has drama, has suspense and even good actors, that there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u87	It even has special effects!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u88	However, the argument is very bad. And you know why it's so bad? Because it's completely predictable. We already know how this is gonna end, Your Honor. This will end by approving this proposal today, and, in the specialty, you, of the two, one: or draw, waiting for it to fall to the end of the legislature, or then return to your original proposal and everything has changed so that it will remain the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u89	You know how it ends, after all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u90	Madam Member, my question is therefore very simple: in the specialty, will the honourable Member and her bench be able to take a fourth position, which is a step aside from what the Block proposes, or will they keep at exactly the same point? Can we expect more PS volatility or, after all, will they have some degree of conviction, even if it is at the end of this discussion? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u91	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u92	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Ana Rita Bessa for her opportunity to remind me of what she has already said to the PSD. The CDS, in the PSD/CDS coalition government, of course, was also part of the transition from EUR 90 million to around EUR 180 million of moderate income.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u93	But how do you vote on the BE proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u94	That's not access, Mrs. Deputy. That's not serving the Portuguese. That's not serving the users. Of course, this construction process — which I have mentioned during my intervention — of all this progressive reduction of moderate rates with the focus on user orientation is a concern of the PS and has been a realised concern throughout the entire legislature. This is an orientation that we have seen in the law of bases, having its approval, confirming, unfortunately, and once again, that the CDS is not on this boat, is not in this film.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u95	He's not, he's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u96	It is, in fact, in the film of the privatization of the National Health Service, in the film of the deviation of users in a logic to privatize the National Health Service and not to serve the users, giving them access and guarantee to health. So what we want to say — and I repeat again — is that good legislative practice means that user orientation naturally has a much more volatile set of vicissitudes than any legislative procedure in this House. It is up to the Directorate-General of Health to say what are the margins and, even, what are the signs that the National Health Service has on the part of the health system, in order to have this full orientation to lead the Portuguese to primary care, to prevention, promoting a logic of protection of the most vulnerable, etc. We believe, therefore, that it is possible to consolidate this margin and comply with this principle in the specialty. And we also believe that, having the Block put forward a set of proposals in the specialty that are can, we can be more specific and concrete in this matter. But one thing is certain, Mrs Deputies: the Socialist Party has said, has practiced and repeats where it is necessary that, for us, moderate rates are to be moderate. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They're for moderation! They are not to inhibit access, they are not to remove users from health or to prevent them from having access to health. Fortunately, this is clear to the PS. Unfortunately, for the CDS, it is clear to put them away, it is clear to privatize the system and of course there is no National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u97	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service came from April at a time when the country came out of a difficult life of subjection and darkness, whose majority of the population did not know, or even knew, what were regular medical care. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976, in line with the spirit of that early morning of April, not only consecrated the right to health for all Portuguese, as included this right in the list of fundamental rights, determining their universal and free access, thus allowing an unprecedented advance in the country in regard to health care. however, with the 1989 constitutional review, the free nature of the National Health Service gave rise to the expression « tendentially free ». However, this turn, which also represented a social backwardness, would open the doors to the imposition of fees on access to health care, with recourse, indeed, to arguments that, in fact, are absolutely free of any real support, such as the idea that its application would moderate the search for health services. It happens, as we all realize, that moderate health rates are not moderate. What they do is contribute to preventing Portuguese access to health care, the access of Portuguese to a right of constitutional relevance. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Greens have always opposed the imposition of this dossier, and the reason is simple: we consider that a sick citizen, in a situation of distress or deep distress, at the risk of life or fearing for his own life, when he makes the decision to use the National Health Service, should do so freely, because he is confronted with the desire to treat himself or care. So, what is happening is that the moderate rates, simply, are not moderate. In rigor, nothing moderates. In addition, over the years, the policies of successive governments for the health sector have been marked by a strong and continuous budget disinvestment, which has led to the closure of hospital services and specialties, extensions and primary health care units, with a particular impact on the territories of the country, increasing social inequalities in access and use of health care. On the other hand, as we all know, there are several studies, both national and international, which reveal the need to remove financial obstacles in access to health care in our country, which is the example of the 2017 Spring Report, prepared by the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory, which, in the conclusions of chapter 4, on equity in health care, states very clearly and expressly that barriers to access to health care remain in Portugal, especially marked from a socio-economic point of view. In fact, the Greens have already referred to it and remind us that moderate rates have become a real rate of use. That is, the user, who already finances the National Health Service with his taxes, when he needs to use the health services that the State should ensure, once again pay that service, which is clearly harmful to the fragile family budgets, that he must still bear the costs with the medicines and the other treatments. While it is true that in the new parliamentary framework some measures have already been taken, such as the replacement of several exemptions and the reductions in the values of moderate rates, it is also true that these improvements are still insufficient and, in the perspective of the Greens, it is absolutely essential to approach the constitutional principles that have raised the right to health protection as a fundamental right. In addition to all this, what we believe is that the country cannot remain indifferent to the appeal of the World Health Organization itself, which points to the need to remove economic and financial obstacles to access to health care, i.e. the need to reduce conditionalisms that can prevent citizens from accessing the right to health, particularly through the repeal of moderate rates, which is an imperative of a true policy of protection and safeguarding the health of Portuguese. In addition, these reasons led the Greens to submit, for more than a year, a bill to revoke the moderate rates. Therefore, for the same reasons, we follow this legislative initiative of the Left Block, even though the same limits its scope, since it only provides for the exemption of the moderate rate in primary health care and other health benefits when the source of reference for these same benefits is the National Health Service. Nevertheless, this proposal represents, in our view, an important contribution to removing obstacles to the access of Portuguese to health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u99	Mr José de Matos Rosa of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss a bill of the Left Block which aims to exempt the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health services whenever the origin of the reference to these is the National Health Service. It is an initiative taken, not to say even opportunistic, if we remember that an essentially identical proposal has already been adopted in the voting process in the speciality of the Health Bases Act. in fact, there is already a standard according to which « with the aim of promoting the correct user orientation, the collection of moderate rates in primary health care should be waived and, if the origin of the reference is the SNS, in the other health benefits, as defined by law ». Now, what the Left Block now proposes is basically the same, i.e. the exemption from the payment of these fees in care, consultations and other health services, in primary health care, as well as in consultations, in the complementary acts prescribed and in other health services if the source of reference for these is the National Health Service. For the Left Block, today's discussion is no longer a mere political number to join so many other skills with which the management compañeros toast the Portuguese to divert the attention of the real and serious health problems in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u101	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u102	This is something for which the PSD is neither available nor available. But since today's debate has as its theme the moderate rates, the PSD can no longer liveuate the memory of the still dominant majority, first, to undo the myth that the moderate rates were an originality of the current Health Bases Act. In fact, it was Law No. 56 / 79, the law establishing the National Health Service, the so-called "law Arnaut ", to be provided for in its article 7. the, what...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u103	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u104	... « access to SNS is free of charge, without prejudice to the establishment of diversified moderate rates aimed at rationalising the use of benefits ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u105	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u106	In other words, the ‘Arnaut law’ provided for the establishment of moderate rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u108	...a truth indifferent to the extreme left, but perhaps an inconvenient surprise for some young socialists. That's right, Mrs. Joana Lima! Secondly, to remember that the Socialist Party, today in the skin of an equal lamb,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u109	‘Body fur’? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u110	... not long ago he defended, by the authorized voice of his Health Minister, Dr. Correia de Campos, that the State should also charge moderate rates in hospitalizations and outpatient surgeries, within the framework of the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u111	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u112	... an absurd and unfair idea, because it does not even depend on the initiative of the users, against which the PSD, then, decidedly opposed it, actually achieving its non-application.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u114	But the absurdity of these rates would still be overcome by the unfair defense that this socialist minister himself made of the subjection of children under 12 years of age to the payment of moderate rates in the SNS. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u115	In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in May 2007, then Minister Correia de Campos, a reference to the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u116	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u117	... he said: « It may be difficult to solve, but we should ask whether all children should be exempt from fees, whether they are rich children, or poor children. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President and Mr. Members, this is therefore the admirable historical journey and the Socialist Party's curriculum on moderate rates. But it doesn't end here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u118	We don't all think the same, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u119	By continuing, thirdly, to remember the bankruptcy that the last socialist government left the country in 2011,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u121	... obliging to request external financial assistance and to commit the next government to a textbook draconian charge. Indeed, today so conveniently forgotten Memorandum of Understanding, among many other demanding and harsh measures, required the Portuguese State to « review and increase in its entirety the moderation rates of the National Health Service through a substantial review of existing categories of exemption ». This agreement, by José Socrates, even requires that the Executive proceed to « increasing moderate rates in certain health services ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u122	You have raised moderate rates by 200 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u123	unlike the lies propagated by the left, the increases of the moderate rates verified in the previous legislation had in José Socrates his first cause, his main responsible, the father of these increases. This is it, Mrs Jamila Madeira! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will surprise some to be reminded of what the then President of the Health Regulatory Entity and, until a few months ago, President of the National Health Council said about the increases in the moderation rates then announced. He said the renowned Prof. Jorge Simões, in October 2011, referring to the Executive led by Pedro Passos Coelho : « Globally, the measures that have been announced to the sector deserve a positive note », giving as an example of these, among others, the change in the rules determining the exemption from the payment of moderate fees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u125	But what may surprise my dear colleagues from the left parliament is what Dr. António Arnaut said in this regard in September 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u126	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u127	On the then announced increase in moderate rates, the SNS father said: « I think these changes do not affect the humanist philosophy of the SNS, because there is an extension of exempt people and there is a narrowing of some benefits for chronic patients. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u128	If there were no increases of 200 %, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u129	The truth is that the former Government, although obliged to increase the moderate rates, through a Memorandum of Understanding signed by a Government of the Socialist Party, reviewed the categories of exemption, positively differentiating primary health care through lower rates, and created rules of dispensation based on criteria of rationality and positive discrimination of the most deprived and disadvantaged people. This is the truth! In addition, it increased the universe of SNS users exempt from the payment of moderate rates in more than one and a half million, from 4, 3 million in 2011 to about 6 million in 2015. To this end, they contributed essentially two fundamental measures: on the one hand, the extension of the criterion of economic insufficiency from €485 to €629 and, on the other hand, the exemption from the payment of rates for vulnerable and risk groups, with emphasis on all young people aged 13 to 18, whose families have thus ceased to have more of that charge. Thus, the difference between the viewpoints that the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party have on social justice is clear: if the PS has put moderate rates on children up to 12 years old, the PSD has responded with the exemption of these rates for all minors, this despite having done in the middle of a great crisis that the country was experiencing, thanks to the previous socialist governance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The myths of this unrelenting Left Block initiative are therefore undone. We are now going to the reality and what really interests the Portuguese, which is the shameful state in which the National Health Service is located, at the end of four years of degradation, de-investment and lack of access by users. The reality is that this socialist government received a better SNS than we have today from the previous government, PSD / CDS, at the end of four years of management. What do we have today? A SNS with waiting times for medical consultations, surgeries and complementary examinations worthy of the third world. A SNS that leads to distrust and discredit on the part of its users, because this government has been paying for the vouchers of private surgeries within the framework of the SIGIC ( Integrated System of Registration Management for Surgery ). A SNS in which patients wait months for a continuous or palliative bed, not rarely made available too late. A SNS with chaotic and overcrowded emergencies, genuine scenarios of war, as I have said for some time, the Doctors' Order Bastonary, and whose collapse is well the mark of the failure of the current socialist government. A SNS in which cancer patients are subject to waiting compasses to start treatment or even die because public hospitals could not carry out the tests they needed in time. A SNS in which central hospitals do not have the capacity to respond to pregnant women, forcing women in labor to move to other hospitals by their own means or children born in gasoline bombs, because hospitals do not have doctors. A SNS in which hospitals close medical services or suspend surgeries due to lack of human resources or basic material. A SNS with patients hospitalized for days and days in corridors or at meals. A SNS in which health professionals are demotivated, even desperate, and resort to the strike as a last resort, before a government that ignores them, despises them, persecutes and numbs them. A SNS in which pharmaceutical services are collapsing, operating some of them without safety and minimum environmental quality assurance. A SNS where, finally, users, who should be at the center of the system and be the reason for being public policies, are forgotten, abandoned and relegated to the anonymity of their indisputable personal suffering. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak clearly once and for all: the National Health Service is ill. You are turning the SNS into a cartoon of what your founders wanted. The SNS is very close to a serious crisis. Citizens' confidence in the SNS has been shaken daily by complaints about waiting times for consultations or surgeries, delays and inconveniences in emergencies, lack of equipment, staff, conditions of reception and treatment. Who says it is not only the PSD, it is also the already mentioned Dr. Correia de Campos, by the way, today, one of the few lucid men in the hemisphere of management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u131	in this context of the latent collapse of the SNS, you have fun in adolescent games, your gifts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u132	Oh, we're teenagers! Is that what you're talking about? That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u133	... where advances and retreats take place around the law of bases, where the only doubt is to know who, among you, is the most statistic fundamentalist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u134	People, for you, do not pass a mere instrument on the path to socialism, when, in reality, they are the great victims of your ideological insensity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u135	For PSD, people are first. We believe in a National Health Service focused on the interests of citizens and their freedom of choice,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u136	... where the realization of the right to health protection is the alpha and omega of social policies. That is why we fight and it is because of this reality that the PSD will consecrate all its existence. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u137	Mr José de Matos Rosa, the Bureau records the registration of Mr João Gouveia of the Socialist Party for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José de Matos Rosa, we are appreciating a bill of the Left Block, of all known. In our view, it will be important to raise two facts. First of all, this bill, given its content, seeks to follow up the Socialist Party's proposal, recently approved, in the debate, in the specialty, of the new basic health law, in the corresponding working group. Following the start of the current government's functions, for example, a reduction of moderate rates to the limit of 25 % of its total value was approved among other measures. And it should be recalled that as an immediate consequence, in 2016, the citizens of the National Health Service saved millions of euros, with an increase in the number of consultations and surgeries carried out in the same year. This factual reality shows that the Socialist Party, also with regard to moderate health rates, has a clear strategic design: a National Service of Universal Health, general and trendly free. After these framework notes, in a non-recurrent way, I would -I would also remind myself of the policy options of the XV Constitutional Government, PSD / CDS coalition, which, in 2003, without any conditions of troichian nature, approved and applied increases in moderate rates between 30 % and 40 % and also an increase of more than 150 % in the number of health acts subject to moderate rates. Thus, in view of the known history, because the facts speak for themselves, it is clear, in our view, the political relevance of a clarification of the PSD regarding its current strategic relationship with the moderate rates. Objectiveing, Mr Matos Rosa : what is the current thought of the PSD on this matter? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u139	To reply, Mr José de Matos Rosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u140	Mr President, Mr John Gouveia, first of all I thank you for the questions you have put, but I have made sure that they went to the Left Block, not to us. [[PS protests.]] The PSD's thinking was very explicit in my speech and in the speeches of my fellow Members during this debate. It was very explicit and clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u141	So what do you think?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u142	What we have basically verified is a smoking curtain on the serious problems of the SNS. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u143	This is what the Left Block and the Socialist Party bring, in addition to a fratricidal struggle between the left, between the Socialist Party and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u144	Okay, there's nothing to say! That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u145	in the background, and I say - with great sincerity, they should have more respect for the users of the SNS, who have problems every day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u146	All right! [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u147	... that they want to have surgery, consultation and care, by those who, day by day, do the SNS, who are doctors, nurses, assistants, all those who work in hospitals and who help us in our problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr John Gouveia, I say one sentence: they understand and make the SNS work for the benefit of the Portuguese and all those who need it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u148	The next intervention lies with Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Within months of the celebration of 40. the anniversary of the National Health Service is never too much to remember that the SNS emerged from the April Revolution. This important achievement realized the right to health poured into the Constitution of 1976, which stipulated the freeness of health care. The free character would be liquidated and abandoned by successive right-wing governments: PS, PSD and CDS. First, through the 1989 Constitutional Review, introducing the trendly free of charge, subsequently due to subsequent changes to its regime, in particular the establishment of the annual review of values through the automatic annual update of the value of inflation rates, or the worsening of penalties concerning the non-payment of the respective moderate rate. In 2003 the PSD/CDS Government applied a brutal increase at these rates ( with increases from 30 % to 40 % for emergencies and consultations ) and increased the number of acts subject to moderate rates from 140 to 360. In 2009 the Socialist Party introduced some more acts at moderate rates. In 2011, the PSD/CDS government, in addition to exponentially exacerbating the value of moderate rates, withdrew their exemption from firefighters and blood benevolent donors. And diabetic, haemophilic, seropositive, oncological, ankylosing spondylitis or sclerosemultiple patients ceased to be exempt, except for consultations, examinations and treatments directly related to their disease. Others have not been exempt from everything! PSD and CDS also imposed the payment of moderate rates at voluntary termination of pregnancy. The struggle of users, workers and the people was decisive for the interruption of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment of the PSD / CDS and the transfer of costs to the users. The correlation of forces out of the 2015 elections and, above all, the action and intervention of the PCP were crucial to curb the increase in moderate rates and reduce their value, as well as for the recovery of exemptions, among others, for firefighters and blood benevolous donors. The CFP does not devalue any of these advances, but records that it did not go further, either in the exemption, or in the repeal of moderate rates by the PS and its Government, which systematically rejected our proposals for the exemption of chronic patients, which recovered the existing regime before the amendments made by PSD / CDS, and legislative initiatives submitted for the repeal of moderate rates. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the moderate rates, established from a fallacy — moderate access to health care and thus regular use of health care — were something that we always objected to considering that the introduction of moderate rates establishes the modality of co-payment and, above all, transfers to users the costs of health, thus being a real obstacle that challenges the right to health, which persists, even though its values have been reduced. It is the data from several studies that show that this obstacle persists. For example, in 2017, close to two million consultations at health centres and hospitals were not carried out because of transport costs and moderate rates, numbers to which more than 500 000 diagnostic examinations were added that were not carried out for the same reasons and 900 000 emergencies, only because of the value of moderate rates. The PCP argues that all obstacles, including the payment of moderate rates, must be removed. That is why it was the only party who, in the discussion of the basic health policy law, presented a proposal for the repeal of the legal diploma which the kings, a proposal which, although not yet voted, have left here a challenge for it to be approved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recognized that it is the strong position of the CFP against moderate rates and not abandoning this purpose of eliminating, because they call into question the universality of the right to health, we will approve the proposal which is currently under discussion. As enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, we will continue to struggle to ensure that access to health is effectively a right, so we will not fail to intervene to deepen exemptions from moderate rates. This is also the meaning of the proposal that we will deliver to Parliament today, a proposal that exempts the payment of moderate rates in primary health care and in the provision of health care that are requested, but always with the aim of ending them. We are presenting this initiative because we understand that it is imperative to stop the transfer of costs to users, that it is important to remove these obstacles that have prevented thousands of Portuguese people from accessing health care and because we understand that health is a right and, as such, must be ensured to all Portuguese people. Revocation of moderate rates continues to have all the current and relevance, because they are unfair, because they are ineffective and, above all, because they penalize the population. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year in which 40 is signed. the anniversary of the National Health Service reaffirms the commitment of always: to work to end moderate rates and all obstacles that prevent access to quality health care in safety and timeliness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u150	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by recognizing that the bill of the Left Block has an obvious fund of generosity. And why do I say that? Because there are still about 4 million Portuguese people who are not free of moderate rates and for some of them — I mean the most vulnerable — this project and its approval has great meaning. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to provide some clarifications. The State budget for 2016 included a reduction in moderate rates up to 25 %, by reducing its absolute value, and also, as a result of the revision of the exemption regime, took into account socio-economic conditions and the protection of the most vulnerable population groups. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are talking about reducing inequalities and, when we talk about reducing inequalities, we cannot reduce this cross-cutting issue only to the domain of moderate rates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the reduction of inequalities in access to the National Health Service, there has been a major evolution between 2015 and what we are now discussing, through the reduction of moderate rates, the review of the exemption regime and the exemption from the payment of the moderate rate, the reduction of charges for non-emergency users of patients, the reduction of drug charges for users, in a total of EUR 17, 8 million, comparing between the end of 2016 and the end of 2015 and the increase in the proportion of generic medicines in units in the National Health Service — 47, 8 % in July 2017 — among others. Thus, we can always compare various situations and are always in advantage in this Legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Public Journal, quoting the 2016 access report of the Ministry of Health, reported: « Citizens who are not exempt from moderate rates in the National Health Service spent less than EUR 44 million with the payment of these fees in health centres and hospitals last year compared to 2015 » — continued with comparisons. And the news continued: « The total burden of families with these payments in consultations and emergencies increased from EUR 161 million in 2015 to EUR 117 million in 2016, as a result of the reduction of these values decided by the current government ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the moderate rates had been substantially increased by the previous Government — and I say substantially, Mr President. Members, therefore, in some cases, the more moderate rates than they have doubled. The right can argue—and it will certainly argue, as it has already done here—that the value of moderate rates has been increased through the Memorandum of Understanding, with the troika, and that, at the same time, the total number of exemptions from moderate rates has been significantly increased. This increase was mainly due to two factors: the extension, already mentioned here, of the pediatric exemption up to the age of 18, and very well, and the increase of the exemptions due to economic insufficiency. We agree, but it's not here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would also like to stress that this project will only come into force for the coming year, after the adoption of the next State budget, but, of course, it will deserve our favourable vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u152	Mrs Deputy, Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block has been registered to request clarification. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u153	Mr President, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, I agree with much of what she said, firstly, about the importance of ensuring better access to health and, secondly, about the fact that it was in this legislature that effective positive steps have been taken: moderate rates have been reduced, exemptions have been increased, exemptions and exemptions that had been cut off from the right have been rejected, the possibility of the Tax Authority to act abusively on those who did not pay a moderate rate, which had been imposed on the right. These are positive steps, therefore. Now, what we are proposing with this bill is that we can still take more steps in this legislature, since, apparently, we have already agreed and a majority, at least in the specialty, in what concerns the basic law. It would be unthinkable that, having had this majority and agreeing on these matters, we would not take this legislation to take more of these steps, to ensure better access, to ensure that people can effectively, without barriers, access to health care. Generally, when we talk about moderate rates—wrongly, from our point of view—we always talk about what this represents for the budget of the National Health Service. This is in the wrong way, because we do not consider moderate rates to be a form of funding from the National Health Service, they should never have been seen this way, although we believe that there are those who do so. But what I am asking is the following: even from the point of view of the impact on the sustainability of the National Health Service, would it not be better to facilitate access, for example, to prevention, to primary health care, to screening, to remove moderate rates, than to allow the disease to settle and worsen? Will this not improve the sustainability of the National Health Service? To answer to those who often say — to us who are going to approve this proposal from the Left Block to increase the exemption from moderate rates — that the removal of these rates will have a very big impact on the sustainability of the National Health Service, I wonder if it is not the opposite, that is, will not have a negative impact on the National Health Service prevent access to benefits, particularly those for health prevention and promotion? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u154	In reply, Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u155	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, my answer is very simple: of course that preventing Portuguese access to the National Health Service, by whatever means it is not in our programme, it is not in our ideological matrix, and I think that what we have done is to end the barriers that have prevented that access. that we agree and we will continue to be, because these are more the advances we have made than the retreats. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u156	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. This is Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto's turn from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the way to the elections — and perhaps the Left Block says it is more or less pre-electional or post-electional — we have no doubt that what we came to see today was a shadow game, a theatrical blow, in fact, to the release of a smoke curtain on a subject that is a hijacking of lovers. They can't solve it out there and then they decided to bring it here today to, in the presence of some more intermediaries, do this staging. So you wanted to make this debate to try to solve a problem between you, which is certainly not a problem for the Portuguese, and that has to be clear, as we shall see.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u158	Isn't that right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u159	It is a problem for you and you have had no role in sacrificing another working time and parliamentary debate for all of us to be watching this frowning of lovers on, indeed, a problem that really concerns you. PPP, moderate rates and everything that has to do with the SNS is a mirage, because it is a reality that the Socialist Party government, the PCP and the Left Block are effectively embarrassed by nothing to tell the Portuguese about the current state of the SNS. But we'll be there. We'll be there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u160	It's not a problem for those who have money to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u161	On moderate rates, the CDS has a very clear and open position. Let us debate them — see, Mr President, 15 days ago, in the specialty, what you want to do now. We therefore debate this subject within the framework of the basic law and we clearly say that, in fact, the most vulnerable, as has already been said, are protected and will never be due to economic insufficiency, public health situations or serious illness that the Portuguese are unable to access the SNS. So, we're comfortable... [[PS protests.]] I see your irritation, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are comfortable because, in fact, we have 14 groups already outstanding and we are clear that it will not be the moderate rates — for the CDS they are not and we are protecting the most vulnerable — which constitute a barrier to access to the SNS, as has already been said. This discussion on the law of bases and on PPPs does not solve the serious problems of the Portuguese, which, in fact, do not understand how, being the SNS in the state in which it is, you bring here today this discussion that does not solve real issues. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, did you talk about barriers to access to the SNS? Did you talk about difficulties in accessing the SNS? Mr. Member, what we expected today was that as regards barriers to access to SNS, you were negotiating with your government partners what they will do about the reality of Viseu, about the cancer patients who are being referred to Coimbra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u162	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u163	...and about Coimbra, who is now overloaded, without new doctors hired. What are you guys gonna do? Have you discussed this in the backyards? What are you going to do to the cancer patients of the Algarve who wait and despair for their follow-up, with delays in complementary examinations, and who are being discriminated against? What have you already negotiated about the maternity wards of the Lisbon crown, which close and, yes, is a barrier to the SNS? What have you already done about the delays in consultation times, beyond the reasonable, and about the delay in surgery of patients on the waiting list? We have sad news every day and this is the reality that this debate and socialist governance, supported by you and the CFP, has not resolved. The Portuguese do not understand why we are discussing smoking curtains, details, when we have an elephant in the room called SNS dying because of this government. This government is causing problems in access to health care, supported by the Left Block and the CFP. It is not the moderate rates, it is this government that causes this sad reality that you persist in hiding. Having said this, Mr President, what we think is that, in fact, it is necessary to change this standard in which we have every day cases for lack of clinical security and human resources, in the face of the incapacity of the Left Block, the PCP and the PS, who have fun to discuss the law of bases for everything to remain in it. No, you can't stay in the same and you won't count on the CDS for that debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u164	The next intervention lies with Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the concrete policies on moderate rates in recent years, the conclusions are clear and unequivocal. The PSD-CDS government used both moderate rates as a financing instrument for the SNS and as a tool for reorientating the search for the SNS for private care. The PS and PS government now consider as always as provided for in Article 7. the Law of the National Health Service, that moderate rates are only an instrument of demand moderation and therefore its value should be confined to this purpose, with guarantee of equity in the use of health care by the Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is precisely in the context of the discussion of the law of bases that the Left Block decided to present the bill today under consideration, concerning the extension of the exemption of moderate rates, empowering this debate when there is clear interest and advantage in addressing the issue of moderate rates in the context of the revision of the law of bases. Despite the merit and relevance that the discussion of the issue moderate rates entails and the acceptability and agreement we have with the recommended solutions, we do not hide our repair and discomfort in relation to the moment chosen for the initiative and the legislative process adopted. In democracy, time and mode are not just a detail. The merit of the Left Block initiative should not be assessed by its particular, certainly legitimate political objectives to seek political benefits with its approval or even with its rejection. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the discussion on the adoption of a new basic law is under way, does it make sense to develop a parallel legislative process to regulate this matter before the general rule guiding the basic law, knowing that this initiative will violate the labour law and increase expenditure? Is the revision of the basic law currently under way, which includes a general basis on moderate rates and paying attention to the legislative powers of the various sovereignty bodies, making sense of this legislative amendment when it is within the competence of the Government to legislate and regulate on the basis of the general principles or basis of the basic law? Why? What are the real reasons why the Government should be relieved of the responsibility to promote the legislative process on the development of the legal system of moderate rates, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of bases? These are these, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issues that we would like to see in favour of this debate and the decision on the initiative are clarified by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u166	The next intervention is Mrs Ana Oliveira of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed the bill of the Left Block initiative that, as has already been said, has the object of exempting the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits whenever the origin of the reference by these is the National Health Service. But also, as has already been said, this issue is not new. In fact, in the Health Bases Act group a proposal was voted on and approved in the same way, which the PSD voted in favour. But let's do an analysis of the diploma in appreciation. in the explanatory statement, the Left Block notes, with its usual lack of love for truth, that the PSD/CDS government not only doubled the value of moderate rates as it made exempt users no longer have that exemption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u168	200 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u169	That is why we should remember once again — as many as we need! — that the increase in the moderation rates in past legislation was an agreed measure between a Socialist Party government and foreign entities that lent money to Portugal so that the country would not fall into bankruptcy. [[Well remembered! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u170	If the executioner of this measure was the former Government, his author was the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u172	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u173	It is therefore appropriate to tell the whole story, although that is not to be expected by parties such as the Left Block. So I remember, as my colleague Matos Rosa has already said, that the number of Portuguese exempt from the payment of moderate rates rose by 4, 3 million in 2011 to around 6 million in 2015. I recall once again that the former Government has increased the conditions of economic insufficiency from €485 to €629 and has extended the exemption from payment of these fees to minors between 13 and 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u174	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u175	But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to talk about the past, let's keep talking about the past. In 2011 the PSD government / CDS found a country on the edge of bankruptcy due to the governance of the same Socialist Party to which the banks of the Left Block, PCP and The Greens have provided coverage in the last four years. The PSD/CDS government found the Ministry of Health with debts exceeding EUR 3.7 billion, plus one third of the annual budget of the National Health Service. Despite all the difficulties, the former Government has opened 132 new family units more than the 29 annually opened by the current government in the first three years of this legislation. Despite all the difficulties, the former Government opened seven new hospital equipment in the SNS, while the current Executive in almost four years did not put any hospital into operation. The truth is that the results of previous governance were not only the result of PSD policies, they were essentially the effects of the effort of a people who suffered with the irresponsibility of those who are in power today. But let us go back to the initiative in question, in which I preambularly refer to a number of initiatives, including in the budget of the State, with a view to the elimination of moderate rates. The problem is that they have voted in favour of four budgets of the Socialist Party State, where none of your initiatives are inserted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u176	Well remembered! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u177	Is this not going to be a contradiction, or is it just the intention? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are meant to be the full Portuguese! With regard to the subject matter of the initiative, let us take action. The Left Block speaks in exemption in the consultations of primary services, but until May there were still about 750 000 Portuguese people without a family doctor. Are we going to hide this fact? Above all, the government that your bank supports has repeatedly promised that by the end of the term of office it would solve the problem. Is equity and the same health service for everyone here not applicable?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u179	Or can we not be talking about the burden that health professionals are suffering on a daily basis? Yes, sir. Members, many professionals do not work 35 hours a week, as you know, many professionals do work twice as much. Or should we not also be talking about the inadequacies that exist in hiring professionals? They want to exempt consultations of the specialty if they are referred to by the SNS. We agree. What about the waiting lists? How can they explain that in hospital medical services, waiting times over a year, two or even three years are observed? Shouldn't we be talking about fighting the breach of response times? When you talk about health, you talk about safety, you talk about protection, where people, especially the most vulnerable, should be the center of the debate. instead, there is a war of ideologies to see who has the most political dividends, ignoring and disrespecting the Portuguese, because the cases accumulate: degraded equipment, exhausted professionals, hospital services without capacity to care, endless waiting lists. A National Health Service at the actual breaking point! It is not worth using the argument that the fault of the previous government or, then, that the PSD bench only speaks of negative situations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u180	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u181	... because our constitutional role is the representation of all Portuguese and, in this quality, we are all here responsible to all citizens. It is our duty to defend them and not to pretend that everything is okay, because it is not. For this reason, the PSD will work for a National Health Service of excellence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u182	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau thanked the ladies and gentlemen. Members standing or on a 'travel' who would do the favor of 'contributing' to their place, as soon as possible. [[Laughing.]] We will now move on to the next intervention, which is up to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already stated in this debate today, but we reiterate that moderate rates are unfair and are indeed an obstacle to access to health care. This has been the reason why the CFP has been motivated to present initiatives to eliminate it, because this is the solution. We accept a phase-out and admit that there may be exemption for certain groups and for certain health care, and we will therefore follow this initiative. But it must be made clear, and it must be assumed, that what effectively solves and guarantees access to health care without economic and social discrimination is in fact the end of moderate rates. As such, we assume it. We are, in fact, the only party in this House of the Republic that clearly assumes the end of the moderation rates and does not admit any collection, because, contrary to what was stated by the Left Block, the issue is not at false moderate rates. In fact, I do not know real moderate rates, because they do not moderate anything. They simply constitute an obstacle to access to health care. from there the necessary solution is indeed their revocation, their elimination. We heard the CDS say that moderate rates are not a problem and we heard the PSD victimizing itself, as if they had no responsibility for what happened while they were in the government, either PSD or CDS. It was all taxes, you were here, you were ruling and you didn't have any responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u184	It was all with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u185	We know exactly who is responsible for moderate rates. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u186	We know exactly who is responsible for the degradation of public health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u187	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u188	It is not worth coming here to cry crocodile tears to seek to deresponsibility of your responsibility in the situation of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] The problems of the National Health Service are not problems today. Unfortunately, these are problems that have been a long time ago and that we have been putting on the table, demanding investment reinforcement, requiring more professionals to hire, ensuring, for example, the free supply of medicines, whether antipsychotic drugs, or medicines for people over 65 years of age. What we have witnessed by the various parties, in particular the PSD and the CDS, is that they come with a rhetoric, but the goal is to discredit the National Health Service to deliver it to private groups. For this, they do not definitely count on the PCP. [[PSD protests.]] We have identified numerous problems, but we have also identified solutions. And the solutions go through a universal, general, and free National Health Service. We identify that it is necessary to take measures currently in order to effectively strengthen the National Health Service, such measures that the current government did not take effectively. [[Your government! Your government!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u189	from the PCP, I want to make clear here our commitment to ensuring the access of all users to health care to which they have the right and which they need, to guarantee the commitment of the PCP in strengthening the National Health Service, because this is how it is ensured that there is no discrimination among citizens. With regard to moderate rates, we will follow these exemptions, but what is really needed is to put an end to the moderate rates, because they are a huge injustice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u190	For the end of this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has been voted on in the Committee on Health, within the framework of the health-based law, is clear and unequivocal, and I will quote it so that there is no doubt of any citizen, or of any citizen, who is not informed about the matter. It states: « In order to promote the correct orientation of users, the collection of moderate rates in primary health care should be waived and, if the origin of the reference is the SNS, in the other health benefits, in accordance with which they are defined by law ». For this reason, those who say that the adoption of this standard, in the discussion, as a matter of specialty, of the basic law itself, creates these exemptions from the payment of moderate fees, are not correct, because they forget that it is in terms defined by a law that still provides for them. Thus, when the PS asked why the time and mode of this schedule of the Left Block, our answer is obvious and unequivocal: because we want to ensure that the same majority that joined to approve this proposal in the discussion, in the specialty, of the health-based law does not leave to others their responsibilities. I know that some banks do not value this debate. I congratulate Dr. Assumption Cristas and I apologize for having held a debate in the middle of her press conference. [[BE's laughs.]] I know that the electoral moment of the CDS so requires, but moderate rates are even important for the very large majority of our country's population. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] CDS doesn't value, we know, CDS doesn't value... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Don't be sad, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, your party leader didn't hear your intervention but we heard her with all due attention, and we didn't devalue her merit and her effort. But it was not able to hide that for the CDS moderate rates do not count, although, when they were in the government, they increased the payment of moderate rates to 200 %. The result was hundreds of thousands of people who had appointments or examinations marked and did not perform them, due to the payment of moderate rates. The National Health Service was penalized twice, because the State considered that it did not have to give this funding, since it provided for the receipt of the moderate rates that were not paid, and because it had planned the allocation of human resources and resources for the conduct of these consultations and examinations and they were absolutely disproposed, not having been used. Therefore, from this point of view, our proposal makes the National Health Service more rational. But let me tell you with all the openness that it is not a proposal from the Left Block, it is not here to be presented as such, it is here to be presented as the legacy to the future formulation, whether Parliamentary or governmental, to ensure that today's agreement is met tomorrow and to ensure that those who have stood up to say that they wanted more exemptions from the moderation rates will also be respected in the future. Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos said that this proposal only comes into force with the next State budget. We are aware of this, and we do not want it to happen earlier. We know that this would violate the labour law and we do not want to create, with this, a legal or administrative problem, we want to ensure that the decision we make today is actually carried out and therefore we also count on the votes of the Socialist Party, the votes of the CFP, the votes of the Greens and even, if it is turned out there, the votes of the PSD, because the Commission has also made this proposal viable. But there is a debate that is not closed today — we know it is not the object of this agenda — that is about the way we look at the National Health Service: if it is inclusive, if it serves people and ends with abuse, either in front of people or with public money. Ending abuse in front of people is ending economic barriers, but ending public money abuse is ending public-private partnerships. We already realize that we are on an impasse in this matter. The Socialist Party wants to impose PPPs, when it already knows that the Left Block and even the PCP do not accept them in the health-based law. The Left Block has already put forward a proposal not to impose what is unacceptable, that neither Arnaut nor Semedo anticipate for its basic law, but rather to pass a basic law that destroys the current legal order of PPPs and commits itself to a future government, to a future majority, to a future government formulation the choice on the management of SNS. It doesn't mean the Left Block is going to change its mind. That's not what we're saying. Our opinion today is what it will be tomorrow. This means that we are creating a solution to ensure a basic law, the same one that Mrs. Jamila Madeira said she could have advanced to the basic law of Cavaco. But we understand: a law of bases which omits the maintenance in force of the law of the right, either of Cavaco or of Durão Barroso, is not the law of bases neither of Arnaut nor of Semedo, and I hope it is not the law of bases of the Socialist Party. It is that giving this blessing to the same PSD that I wanted, as Mrs. Deputy said, to privatize the SNS, is to ensure that the legacy of Durão Barroso is stronger than the legacy of Arnaut. [[PSD protests.]] We do not want this for the basic health law, we hope that the PS will not want it either and will follow us in the proposal we have made. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u192	We shall move on to the next item on the agenda, with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. While the services prepare the electronic table for quorum verification, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will be pleased to announce some initiatives that have entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u193	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 205 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the legal regime of access to law and courts, which falls to 1. the Commission. Bill Nos 1225 / XIII / 4 also entered. a ( BE ) — prohibits the racing of chickens and other dogs, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 1226 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Accounting for days of service for the social protection of teachers placed in incomplete hours, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates an entity for transparency in the exercise of public office, which falls to 14. the Commission, 1229 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the system of dispensation of antipsychotic drugs in the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1230 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Regulates the free dispensing of medicines to citizens over 65 years of age, which falls to 9. the Commission. Finally, Resolution Projects Nos 2195 / XIII / 4 entered. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school education establishments, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 2196 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the electrification and requalification of the railway portion Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira, 2197 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of shelters for wild animals and farm animals and their legal framework, 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the priority expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2199 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revoke the authorisation granted to the Administration of the Port of Setúbal to advance with dredgings in Sado, 2200 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of legislation to regulate the reception of wild animals and livestock. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for some reason, have not been able to make the electronic register, will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence register, so that it is considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 194 presences, to which five are added, of the Members. Members Feliciano Barreiras Duarte and Maria das Mercês Borges, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino and Joaquim Barreto, of the PS Parliamentary Group, making 199 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin with Vote No 844 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Despite the death of Ruben de Carvalho, which will be read by Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u195	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Ruben de Carvalho, militant and communist intellectual, born in Lisbon on July 21, 1944, died on June 11, at the age of 74. PCP Militant since 1970, he was a member of his Central Committee since 1979. He was editor of the Avante Journal! between 1974 and 1995. He was a member of the Executive of the National Front Party Commission! from 1. the edition, in 1976, having taken a prominent intervention in its cultural programming, in particular in the design and organization of its musical shows. Since very young had active intervention in the anti-fascist struggle, having participated in the important student struggles that took place in the early 1960s, activities that subjected him to constant persecution by PIDE and led him to fascist prisons in Caxias and Aljube. He was arrested six times, the last of which on 7 April 1974. Ruben de Carvalho was a member of the "young support committees" for the candidature of General Humberto Delgado. He was an activist of the Democratic Opposition in the 'elections' for the 1961 National Assembly, 1965 and 1973, and the latter integrated the Central Commission of the Democratic Electoral Commission. After 25 April 1974, he was head of office of the Minister without a pasta, Prof. Francisco Pereira de Moura, in the I Provisional Government. Ruben de Carvalho has, throughout his life, collaborated in numerous and important publications, radio and television programmes, notably in the production of the Chronic Programme of the Middle Ages and in participation in the program The Free Radicals in Antenna 1. It has incorporated culturally recognised structures, in particular the Council of the Cultural Centre of Belém, the organization of LISBOA 94 — European Capital of Culture and the commemorations of 25. the anniversary of 25 April. He is the author of several literary works in various areas, from politics to art, and was the producer of numerous records and shows. He was a member of the Assembly of the Republic, elected by the circle of Setúbal, in the 1995 elections, councillor of the Municipal House of Setúbal and the City Council of Lisbon. He was responsible for the Route of Antifascism of the City Hall of Lisbon. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Ruben de Carvalho and addresses his relatives, his companion and the Portuguese Communist Party his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u196	I would like to say that the President of the Assembly of the Republic joins this vote and also expresses condolences to the companion of Ruben de Carvalho, who is present. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] With regard to the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII — Maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service, we shall begin by voting, within the scope of the specialty, a proposal to amend Article 1. the, presented by the NAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstention from the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 [...] This Act aims to re-establish the regime concerning the maintenance and opening of pharmacy at the facilities of hospitals of the National Health Service.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u197	The vote on the confirmation or not of the Decree follows. in this case, in accordance with Article 136 ( 2 ). the Constitution and Article 94 ( 4 ). that of the Rules of Procedure, electronic voting is necessary. I therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic framework for this purpose. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote again on the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, and recorded 92 votes in favour (75 of the PS, 14 of the PCP, 2 of the Greens and 1 of the PSD), 32 votes against (18 of the BE and 14 of the CDS-PP) and 73 abstentions (71 of the PSD, 1 of the NAP and 1 of the non-registered MP Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] As he did not obtain the 116 votes in favour necessary for the absolute majority of the members in effective office, this Decree was not confirmed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u199	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u200	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u201	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u203	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u204	Mr President, it is only to report that my vote has not been recorded electronically, even though I have risen at the time of abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u205	It's a vote in the same direction as the PSD vote, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u206	Yes, Mr President, abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u207	Mr President, I had already raised my arm to say that I also had a technical problem, but my vote is in the sense of abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u208	All right. They are thus 75 abstentions from the PSD, which does not in any way alter the results and consequences of this act. We move on to the vote of the 2017 State General Account. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on a request submitted by the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without voting for a 40-day period of the Bill No 1153 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter taxation within IRS so that income becomes taxed in accordance with the actual income of the taxable person in each of the years to which they relate and the effective rate ( amendment to Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November 1988 ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This CDS-PP bill therefore drops to 5. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education in public education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1218 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Free school textbooks for students who attend compulsory education in the public education network of the Ministry of Education ( second amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill also goes down to 8. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1214 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the end to be attributed to the tips of cigarettes. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and 5 Members of the CDS-PP (Assunção Cristas, João Gonçalves Pereira, João Pinho de Almeida, Pedro Mota Soares and Teresa Caeiro).]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u209	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u210	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u211	Mr President, it is only to announce, on behalf of the CDS bench, that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote and even if there was freedom of vote, as noted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u212	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u214	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u215	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote on draft resolution No 2154 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines and approve its own legislation with a view to recognizing the existence of a working link with family workers working in IPSS and in the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. A point vote was required by the PS, and we shall therefore first vote point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1023 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the Popular Associative Movement. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 2050 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for information on Type 1 Diabetes in schools. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 796 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable works to be carried out at the André de Gouveia School in Évora, 2096 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work at the André de Gouveia High School in Évora, and removes all existing fibrosis in its construction and 2150 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — by the urgent requalification of the André de Gouveia High School in Évora. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS Member Norberto Patinho and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u217	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u218	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u219	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 125 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves rules on the processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 680. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN.]] We are now generally voting on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 120 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Ensures the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 148 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the first revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote on this same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u221	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u222	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u223	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u224	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u226	Mr. José Carlos Barros, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u227	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u228	It is also registered, Mr. We will proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on Bill No 1093 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, including on the list of essential public services or passenger transport service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Helena Roseta and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 830 / XIII / 3. a ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ) — Legal regime of the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us also vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Mr. Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Commission on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-14.u230	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 18th, beginning at 3 p.m. the first item is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on environmental policies and land development under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. the second point is the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process and the debate with the Government, on the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union, which form part of the European Semester, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( d ). that of Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. We are thus at the end of our work. A good weekend for everyone and until Tuesday at the plenary. [[It was 12 hours and 22 minutes.]]
