ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u1	Mr. President of the Republic, Excellences, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLV Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] On behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Illustre Entities, High Authorities, Distinguished and Distinguished Guests, Mr. Members: Today, with immense gratitude, we pay tribute to all those who have fought and resisted a single-party authoritarian regime, which for 45 years liberated the people and the people have returned the freedom and conduct of the destinations of Portugal. To evoke April 25 is also a time to remember and apologize for all those who died and were struck by the violence of the colonial war and to thank those who put an end to it. It is undeniable that we have lived better than 45 years. in these times, talking about gender equality was inconceivable, with differences and inequalities that went from permission to marriage to wages, or to the lack of them. We could not read all the books and authors, the poverty and illiteracy of the population were enormous, medical care was not guaranteed for all, infant mortality was high, reduced life expectancy, levels of inequality and forced emigration were overwhelming. Today, development, measured by a number of social and economic indicators, is unquestionable. And I mean these indicators for a purpose. We have a habit of congratulating ourselves on social indicators and stressing those on economic evaluation and performance. But we have never, and we continue to pay no attention to the indicators that alert us to environmental deficits and which expose a clear preview of the serious humanitarian problems that we will face in the near future and which can even compromise our survival as a species. The Anthropocene, the period we live in, may even be the last age of the human being. The air, water, soil and mineral resources are gifts that, as a humanity, we have been wasting and disrespecting, seeking short-term economic gains. from the 70s to the present day, the extraction of resources and the production of raw materials more than tripled, the emission of greenhouse gases doubled and we lost 60 % of mammals, birds, fish and reptiles. In Portugal, we need two planets to support our current model of production and consumption. Each of us in this Chamber spends, on average, 12 tons of natural resources to live in a year, which is manifestly unbearable and excessive for the weight of a human being. We're living above the abilities of the planet. We live on credit, environmental bankruptcy is announced and those with supervisory and intervention powers continue to be neglected. The political elite continues to decide in accordance with the laws of the linear economic model. Dominating, exploiting, extracting, transforming, producing, selling, buying, using, discarding and extinguishing are the 10 commandments of unlimited growth, without which — they tell us — there can be no development. More than the courage and vision that have been lacking in political decision makers, they lack the basics: empathy. Empathy by our fellowman, by the other forms of life, by the planet, by our common home. from the left extractivist to the right productive, we can only expect partisan guerrillas, technocracy and round speeches. The political elite is on the back of the people's future. Young people, moved by climate urgency and hopelessness in the political class, who do not hear them, have manifested themselves on the street and the street will return. Generations who will receive an exhausted planet are increasingly being ignored and abandoned by the parties of the regime who only think and act on short-term economic interests. It is urgent to reduce and rethink our consumption patterns and make the transition to a circular economic model, which requires profound changes in the energy sector, industry, mobility of people and goods, civil construction and the agri-food sector. Yes, it is about transforming the way we live on this planet. And this is — we have no doubt — a question of survival of our species which requires a consistent and conscious change in individual and social behaviour, always accompanied by effective political measures. The deadline to save Earth has a date: 2030. And today, from now on, there are 10 years, 8 months, 5 days and 13 hours to the point of no return. If we all want, if we all get together, as we did 45 years ago, we'll still be on time. We must be courageous and competent so that in 2030 the average temperature of the planet does not rise by one and a half degrees, the limit from which extreme weather phenomena are unpredictable and our life on this planet will become more difficult to bear. We are also due to the end of the international isolation cycle on 25 April. The dream of fulfilling Portugal and of fulfilling the planet is also made in Europe. The Union of European brothers and sisters makes us stronger and able to lead the great fight of our lives: that of climate change. The environment calls for revolution. the NAP, whether on the street, in Saint Benedict or Brussels, will not lack voice, determination, or courage to face the environmental crisis. Thank you, Captains! Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u3	I have the floor, for an intervention, by the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests, Ladies and gentlemen : The gratitude for the attempt to free a country in prison and a people humiliated by fascism is always due to the Movement of Armed Forces, to the Captains of April, to whom we address a heartfelt greeting,... [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, PS, PCP and PSD Members.]] ... but also to the many men and women who have never allowed fascism to bind their dreams, to those who have made dreams the strength of resistance, to those who have resisted, in the belief that one day one can feel the taste of freedom. These were seeds of courage that would flourish on each raised nail. Freedom! Victory! The united people will never be defeated! It was the most heard acclaim, in unison, to greet the Revolution that put an end to fascism. To hear, today, young people say that they would love to have lived on April 25, 1974 is an undeniable recognition of the greatness of that day about, in which the people went out to the street, in an explosion of joy, of collective hope, of color, of party, of music, of culture, and filled with strength and confidence to collectively build a reborn country. to the young people of today tell them, the young people of April, that the Revolution of Cravos was only the beginning, the principle of a collective walk and that 45 years later, it is still so much to be fulfilled. And, in good rigour, the great thing to do does not water down the certainty that the achievements made need to be cared for and preserved, because nothing is eternal and untouchably conquered. When, through this world and this outside Europe, intolerance breaks out necessary solidarity, generating inconceivable inhumanities, when fear and resentment are exalted where extreme right and reactionaryism gain space, the responsibility to act for solidarity and democracy, solidifying them, becomes more and more emerging. It is a full sense to affirm « 25 April always, fascism never again! Do not keep on seeking. ” the children of April are asked to defend the supreme and magnanimous values of this April, such as freedom, equality, solidarity, justice, democracy and development. That they defend them in the practical life of this society, with the claw of those who do not accept to lose them or transfigure them, ensuring that these and the generations to come will not be diminished from these pillars, which have genuinely sustained the celebration of the liberation of an entire people. April is to fight for a country of progress and sustainability. We are many who bring April nailed to the daily struggle. We need to be more, even more, the activists of April, the builders of social and environmental advances. Never with setbacks. Not with consecutive advances and retreats, to the solutions, from whom you wish but do not dare to face the system and the great interests installed. What is needed is to advance with the audacity and responsibility of those who believe that politics is treacherous when it is based on the interests of bankers or when it molds the market to the taste of the interests of multinationals who "brained their teeth" as necessary to liquidate the sovereignty of peoples. To advance with the boldness and responsibility of those who believe that politics only makes sense when it comes to respect for a 'total people' and the happiness of the citizens. That is why the Green Party is fighting every day, and that is why we have actively and positively committed ourselves to the Assembly of the Republic in this Parliament: to break a cycle of social massacre of the previous Government, to restore dignity to citizens, to combat levels of poverty and unemployment, to generate more environmental security, to reverse the logic of disinvestment in other important sectors, to generate better living conditions, to make the greatest hope of April the engine of better social, environmental and economic achievements. The Greens set up transformation flags to ensure more sustainability in the necessary development, leading the laudatory speeches to become concrete measures: to stop the absurd expansion of eucalyptus monocultures; to strengthen the conservation of nature and biodiversity with more human means; to counter levels of unacceptable pollution in our rivers; to rest the National Barrage Plan, with implications for the security of the territory; to reduce waste — such as packaging and plastics — that flood our seas; to ensure the reduction of ecological footprint in the food sector, with the preference for local production in public consumption and the fight against food waste; to ensure more investment in public transport, with a view to combating climate change, promoting greater territorial cohesion and the right to mobility of populations, requiring improvements in the national rail network and reducing the price of social passes. The ways of the future are green, the liberating hope of dreams. When, in Portugal, we say that we must urgently go further in the levels of development and well-being and in the promotion of social and environmental justice, we will not lower our arms and we will fight tirelessly for it to be so. When we find that the European Union is shaped by the interests of the strongest countries, the elites, the great economic and financial power, militarism, and distanced from the needs of the citizens, we will strive to ensure a Europe of cooperation between equal and sovereign States, of solidarity with the peoples, the very first recipients of the political options, come from which instance they come. Finally, with a word on this which is one year with three electoral acts, to remember that, in the first free elections, where women and men gained the right to decide on collective destinations, the participation rate exceeded 90 %. Abdicating this right to vote, which has cost itself to conquer, is a surrender to conformityism, is leaving the decision in the hands of others, when the truth is that each vote counts to make the difference and determine the correlation of political forces. The truth is that a gesture can be more a poem! "for the dream we are going! (...) Are we there? Aren't we there? We're leaving. Come on. We are. Do not keep on seeking. ” Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u5	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and other Superior Courts, Captains of April, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today, we celebrate the 45th anniversary of the April Revolution, a moment unique to the history of our country and of profound meaning for what it has collapsed and for what it has built. And if we remember from here the People's/MFA alliance, and if from here we greet the April military and the popular uprising that followed their action, on that early morning of April 25, 1974, we do not forget or forget the dark 48 years of the fascist dictatorship. Because fascism existed, it sowed poverty, hunger, poverty, illiteracy and disease, imposed child labour, subdued women, it was the power of half a dozen multimillionaire families, made corruption State politics, censured and oppressed, persecuted and arrested anti-fascist opponents, erected the concentration camp of Tarrafal — the field of slow death—, tortured and killed. It was April, with his liberating action, that put an end to this time of terror, that brought a time of hope and strength to transform. We do not forget this, as we have not forgotten the role of the Portuguese Communist Party, of generations of communists, other democrats and anti-fascists who, firmly, brave and self-sufficiently, faced the fascist dictatorship and, even in the clandestine manner, even under the whip of censorship, repression and torture, fought to overthrow it, often paying with their own lives. Many did not live to see April 25, but all of them were essential for April to happen. Because April is not only a day, it is tens of years of a smooth, step-by-step path for those who have always believed that Portugal was not condemned to live grazed, nor his people to live crushed and oppressed by the crickets of the fascist dictatorship. April brought freedom, a word of freedom of opinion without any kind of censorship; where fundamental rights are enshrined in our Constitution which, emanated from the April Revolution, translates into its text the wills and aspirations of a people who wanted to be free and who dared to fight for it. April is freedom of expression, manifestation, political and trade union organization. It is freedom of the press, free elections and right to vote. It's the end of the colonial war. It is national minimum wage, Christmas allowance, right to paid holidays and holidays. It is the right to work and work with rights, collective bargaining, prohibition of dismissal without cause, equal pay and right to strike. It is the right of everyone to health, education, social protection and social security, culture, knowledge, sport and housing. It is right to reform, protection in maternity and paternity, protection in childhood and rights for youth. It is local democratic power and regionalization. It is access to public services and fundamental goods. It is the defense of national peace, sovereignty and independence. It is about all this, and much more, that we talk about when we talk about what it meant on April 25 for the Portuguese people. And it is also a great deal of what has been achieved, and it has been destroyed, because of the successive governments that called into question the April conquests and the fulfilment of what is enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As in the past the struggle was essential to defeat fascism, today too, the struggle is indispensable to advance rights and ensure progress and social justice. in a country struck for more than four decades of right-wing policy, with particular brutality during the period of the CFP (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) and the «aggression pact », it was necessary to fight a lot to defeat the plans of those who, from the economic groups and the PSD/CDS government, sought to perpetuate the policy of cut-offs, aggravated exploitation and impoverishment. We had to fight a lot, but with the struggle of the workers and the decisive action of the CFP, this immediate objective has been achieved, now clearly translated in the recovery of rights and incomes and in the many measures that have allowed, at this new stage of national political life, among other achievements, to restore and increase wages, to ensure extraordinary increases in pensions, to strengthen the family allowance and other social benefits, to ensure the freeness of school textbooks up to 12. the year, degrade the tax burden on workers, improve access to reform of workers with long careers contributions or heavy professions in the piereiras and mines. All the measures taken are certainly small steps, considering the size of the problems of the people and the country, but they must be valued for what they mean in the lives of the Portuguese people, because they demonstrate well that it is worth fighting and because they confirm that the way to be done is to move forward. It is necessary to go further and make decisive progress in the direction of a true alternative policy, committed to the values of April, which responds to the structural problems that affect the people and the country and does not go back. A policy for the protection and enforcement of workers' rights — an indispensable condition for the development and progress of a country — for the creation of employment with rights, for the recovery of wages and pensions, for the strengthening of social protection. A policy to combat precariousness, unemployment, social inequalities and to ensure a better and fairer distribution of wealth. A policy that upholds the social rights of the people, reinforcing and investing in the social functions of the State: a National General Health Service, universal and free of charge; a public school, free of charge and quality; a public, universal and solidarity social security; a public service of culture. A policy of defence and investment in national production and recovery of strategic sectors for our economy, which frees the Portuguese economy from its structural dependence and the domain of monopoly groups. A policy that affirms Portugal's sovereign right to its development, rejecting the interferences and taxes of the European Union. A policy that upholds the right of peoples to self-determination and sovereignty, which opposes militarism, with a project of international cooperation for peace and disarmament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The April Revolution is the living proof that it is worth fighting, that the strength of a people defeats inevitability. There are many moments, over these 45 years, that demonstrate well that for the struggle we are going, that progress is necessary and that the struggle of workers and the people is essential for social transformation. Because April belongs to the people, it was their strength that built it, it will be their strength that will consolidate it. It will be with the values of April that the future of Portugal will be built: a more free, more democratic, more developed, more just and solidarity. Because we do not give up dreaming or fighting to « transform the dream into life», which lives April! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u7	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, High Civil Authorities, Military and Security Forces, Mrs. Members, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr Nuncio Apostolico, Illustre Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, My Ladies and Gentlemen : on 25 April 45 years of the beginning of the democratic process to be consolidated on 25 November 1975. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u9	when we celebrate 45 years, we realize that we are approaching the age of the regime before us. If we go back until that regime has completed 45 years, what do the timelines tell us? The 1971 record tells us of a routine normality. During that year of 71 there are not much more records of political attacks, in addition to clandestine pamphlets, the painful silence inflicted on political prisoners and positions such as those of the "liberal wing" that here, in this House, in the framework of the constitutional revision projects, expressed their concern for the ever postponed spring which would be promised. At only three years of the fall of the April Revolution, nothing very substantial seemed, however, to announce the immensity of such a large and so important amendment. It is certainly not possible to conclude from here that nothing was going on. The great changes, such as the roots, germinate beneath the earth and it is to the earth that we, politicians who want us from the future, must also look. Will we be paying attention today to the changes that are being made? Will we want the changes that question us? Adelino Amaro da Costa said that «moderation in politics is used to change, to avoid rupture ». Whoever does not use the opening to change, shocks the doors to extremism and can well be pushed into the rupture. On the contrary, anyone who wants to avoid radicalism has a duty to search and anticipate change. in the political debate we are so often, and we seem unable to meet the simplest and most obvious aspirations of our time. Alberto Caeiro, said :« It is not enough to open the window/ to see the fields and the river. / (... ) We must also have no philosophy. / With philosophy there are no trees: there are only ideas. Do not keep on seeking. ” How many times does the ideological debate fail to be achieved by reality and prevents one meter from being seen in front of the eyes? Because, like the mountains and rivers before us, the most difficult to see is, so often, humanity that we are, regardless of everything, parties, creeds, of any bench in which we sit. A human life is always a human life. The birth of a child is a joy, the greatest wealth a family can aspire to. A student is entrusted to us to teach him how to grow in knowledge and character. A patient always asks for attention and treatment: the best we can give him, with the means we have. A poor person cannot be prevented from sitting at the opportunity table. Our country is the same in Viana do Castelo or Beja, Porto or Faro, as well as in the sea, which involves the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. Won't this be enough evidence to realize that an Aspirin isn't better to say public or private? [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] What glasses do we need to view an oncological pediatrician as an emergency that overlaps with any other kind of ideological considerations? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u10	What will be needed to realize that all inefficiencies, regardless of their clothing, waste resources, generate poverty and backwardness? And what about corruption? What do we still need to see in order to hear an apology—by a government, a party or a regime—by the scandal of what was taken to the Portuguese in political and economic comrades who destroyed wealth and threw national companies, such as the General Deposit Box, the BES or the PT, for losses that we all bear? Oh, my God! What more fires, or droughts—how many deaths will still have to occur? Oh, my God! — to address the isolation of the territories and the Portuguese to their fate by electoral centralism? What do we need to see in Tankos, or in the thefts reported in hospitals, to realize that the State cannot simply pretend that there exists, that it even has to exercise its authority? To see the fields and rivers, as Caeiro said, is to know how to look at what we are and dwell, in the humanity that constitutes us and in the portugality that crosses us, which makes us say that we share the same essence. in diversity and freedom, we are all Portuguese! And this membership requires politicians to serve the country with demanding ethics, constant scrutiny and a broader horizon than the mere electoral or media cycle. Yes, the deference before the institutions in which one has the honour to serve the country advises prudence and repudiation of trivialized familiarity. Promiscuity with power, whether economic, party or family, is incompatible with democratic dignity and attracts April.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u12	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: To celebrate today April is to recognize that the democratic promise demands more and more of us, and demands vigilance; it implies that we return to the future, for this time that is a time of profound change. Throughout Europe and all over the world, winds of change come to us, which we are not always able to understand in all its fullness. in the CDS before we refuse the change we want to commit ourselves to it and star it with humanist values. We are against the disappearance of the state and, even within the framework of the European project, we believe that we cannot ignore the word on our part, particularly as regards the possible creation of European taxes. We defend measures that meet the circumstances of families, whether within the framework of the promotion of birth, or in the framework of informal caregivers. We want the transparency of future social security charges to be resumed and help people plan their future. And never forget that one tax is always removed to the other's property: for it to be accepted it must be moderate and well channeled. We must encourage investment and business dynamism, re-qualify skills in the digital age and promote competition, whose absence affects the price borne by families, but also the robustness of national companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, globalisation, population ageing and climate change represent major challenges, which force us to change our lives. We have to do it today, because tomorrow may be too late. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u13	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Falcato, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests and Ladies Guests : It was a grey and sad country when I was born. Later, the colonial war would add terror to a reality of repression and censorship. It was a country that suffocated, immersed in fear, in the discourse of respect, where fate was marked by the family in which it was born, where the woman was subordinate to man, where misery was the reality of a vast majority. The school, when it was there, was the boys on one side and the girls on the other, where the thought was not free. at the college was the constant threat of Captain Malta and his shock troop. It was the country where free opinion brought prison, death or exile; where friends disappeared into the hands of the PIDE (International Police and State Defense). This country ended on 25 April 1974. to the liberation movements of the colonies, to political activists, to student movements, to the workers movement, to the captains, to all and to all who have never given up our thanks. [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] I carry in my chest the memory of that whole day, of that transforming torrent when hope went loose. I will not forget when I climb the Help slope in Lisbon with hundreds of residents of barracks that occupied the Salazar Foundation neighborhood. in an instant, the empty windows were full of people and through the streets echoed the cries of happiness: «I have home, I have home». People believed that power could change hands and that was the strength that built a new country. There were committees of residents, theatre and music groups in the neighborhoods, operating management, production cooperatives and services were born, agrarian reform was initiated, democracy was also achieved in schools. Politics was life itself. April is synonymous with conquests, but it is misleading who claims that it is not synonymous with struggles. The interests installed moved to prevent progress in rights and to organize themselves to launch terror in society, sometimes with the convivence of the security forces, as I am forced to remember every day. It was a PSP (PSC) bullet that put me in this chair, for protesting against the realization of an extreme right. They didn't silence me. Neither to me nor to our people. We build universal social security, public school and the National Health Service; we guarantee minimum wage and right to strike; we learn that nothing is offered, everything is conquered. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Today, 45 years have passed since the April Revolution. The nails in our breasts must be more than a bandage in the lapel. The hope, which returned to the streets with the 2015 government solution, looks at these nails and asks what we will do in the fundamental decisions. Can the National Health Service ever walk back to the chest, as Arnaut and Semedo dreamed of it, or will it keep the door open for the private business, giving way to the presidential pressure? Oh, my God! Will the basic housing law become a reality, full and nail to the chest, or will the right to housing depend on the will of real estate speculators? Oh, my God! To celebrate April cannot be an annual ceremony, it is a permanent commitment and much to do. 45 years later, many citizens and second-class citizens in our country. They are people who are denied human rights as basic as the right to mobility, employment and a dignified life; they are denied human rights only because they are different; they are subjected to oppression and social exclusion because they have a disability. Oppression and exclusion which also pursue the color of the skin, because we cannot end the structural racism that still marks our society. And if my presence here serves something is to say that it is possible to overcome this oppression, this exclusion, that the future cannot continue to ignore us, that we will not let that happen. The struggles we are witnessing today show that the spirit of April is very alive, that we do not accept that they say no, that we reject the impossibles and inevitability, that we believe, as in the past, that power can change hands. Students who went out on the street because of the urgency of the climate are nails sown by April, which become the main agents of an unacceptable change. Women who have stood up against male justice, who claim full gender equality, are echoes of the voices that reject submission and inequality. The young Afro-descendants who went up the Avenue of Liberty to denounce racist violence are the fruits of the same emancipatory struggles that defeated colonialism. Workers who organize themselves, such as the precariouss of the call center, cleaning workers, or summer workers, are part of the same movements that have won labor rights in the past. The fights for the quality of public services are the awareness of solidarity that increases us, respecting the people who, every day, give body to all of us and to all of us. The news of the days that are coming is that April is more alive with all these struggles, because this is the true spirit that these nails carry: the will of a people who have struggled in adversity and who are now joined by new conquests. Long live Freedom! Long live Democracy! Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u15	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u16	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Distinguished Guests, Authorities present, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I said it on other occasions: on that uncertain and startled day, in the largest city of my islands—where were Melo Antunes and Vasco Lourenço and 'where the newspapers of the day are read several days later', I felt, with the dawn of my 17 years, that the moment had come when friends and family so often helped me, the moment when we would learn to live, some and others, using freedom, the moment when they would see us and not spy on it, the moment when they would take us as an active part and not as an entirely inert, the moment when those who feared to speak and be heard, would finally make their voice freely come to their destination. Separated from the scenario of the green columns of hope, which the military formed more than 1600 kilometers away, it took time but came the announcement that we had arrived at the home of the departure. It had ended the yoke of dictatorship, it was the time of the democratic game. It was as if, to Portuguese and Portuguese, the civic majority had been attributed, or returned. Only those who do not imagine how we die in dictatorship can think that it is worse to live, not always winning, in democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u17	The spirit of 25 April is that we are valued and respected for thinking and acting differently. So for us, for the Mário Soares party, to evoke today on 25 April is not necessarily to depreciate the political right or to exalt the left, it is to respect us in our diversity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But all care is limited. The contemporary history of Portugal alerts us. It was on 31 March 198 years ago that the liberal regime abolished the Inquisition Court. A century later, with the National dictatorship and the New State, the regime of deprivation of public freedoms prevailed as "a system" and not as "a parenthesis" and, as the officiality affirmed, by Marcello Caetano's voice, what disturbed him most was "The old Europe" of democratic decadentism and of the spraying of values". A sound, as you can see, with strange echoes in our days... We are therefore only 45 years from the historical distance of the spirit of the Court of Inquisition. So close! Open... Mrs. Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the desire to think of a reconstructed Portugal, it is my pleasure to recall the guardian memory of the Azorian José Medeiros Ferreira, in his formulation of the tasks that would fit the future rule of law : « Democratize, decolonize, develop». There have been and are so many challenges that these tasks have imposed upon us and impose upon us. We did African decolonization, or perhaps and also, it became itself, especially because the delay was great, the delay of more than a decade of the decolonizers, which combined with the impatient volunteerism of the colonized. We have recently and until recently lost confidences, and we now recognize, in the Lusophone area, the enhanced value of our political and economic cooperation which necessarily requires more vigorous realization. Interestingly, it was with the end of colonial Portugal that we resumed our universal vocation, contributing to this another evidence that the Political Country often ignores: the space of the Portuguese territorial triangle that configures us as a Euro-Atlantic force. It is in this dimension that today we face many of the challenges that most entail the Portuguese future, and in which we cannot fail, whether in the United Nations, by regulating the immensity of our seas, whether in the European Union, where it is important to eliminate inequalities, unite and activate solidarity. We decolonized our own matrix territory, responding to the autonomous tradition of Portugal Island, and we continue to do so within the framework of the municipalist tradition of Continental Portugal. None of these designs find ground to sign their foundations other than that of Democracy, and only with it do they purge the centralisms and mistrusts that still pulverize in the heads, words and actions of decision-makers who think they have the country in the belly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u18	Democraticization, however, is an continually incomplete task, inevitably focused on promoting equal opportunities, but indisputably associated with the revitalization of mechanisms for representation and social participation and, more importantly, the strengthening of transparency and scrutiny of the interests of decision-makers at the most diverse level of the powers involved. However, when we look at the uncertainties and dysfunctions of our time and we confront ourselves with appeals and recipes that become attractive, which exchange fears for intolerance, for lies and for the neglect of politicians and democratic institutions, for the unconfessed purpose not to reform but to suppress them, it will be a mistake to underestimate these dangers for democracies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Saved by differences, it is good that we live our civic commitment to the awareness of the risk that is always around us. As Primo Levi wrote, about the inhumanity he had lived: "It can happen again"! And in order not to happen, it is also necessary to address the new dimensions of economic and social development, which the future has generated in our present and with which much of those born from the past 80s live and confront. The new generations, molded in connected societies and in the digital market, faced with over-exploration and depletion of natural resources, demographic disparities and difficulties in health and social security systems, with deregulation and terrorism and with immense changes in professional functions and working relationships, have thus other anxieties and seek other solutions. Our care must therefore be focused on the search for these solutions, ensuring that they are forged in an effectively democratic and peaceful world, such as what we conquered in Portugal with the courage of the Captains of April. Long live, so April! Long live Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u19	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u20	H.E. Mr. President of the Republic, H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, other Holders of Organs of Sovereignty, Faces and Dear Guests : 45 years ago, a military pronouncement, known for history as the Revolution of Cravos, freed Portugal from an authoritarian and anachronic regime, which lasted since the mid-20s and after the end of the 2nd. the World War survived in contrast to the democratic practices in most Western European countries. The process of democratization leading to a progressive Portugal is inaugurated at this founding time and also with 25 November 1975. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u21	It becomes imperative that, year after year, we be able to honor those who have led us in this way. in this sense, we greet with special reference the Portuguese Armed Forces. We also greet the Portuguese people on behalf of each of the Members here present and of all those who, throughout our democratic history, have been elected. Regardless of ideological perspectives or programmatic seizures, each of the 230 Members represents Portugal, in its diversity, but must also represent its unity capacity. On 25 April it granted the right and duty to vote. Consecrates it in the constitutional text, materializing the idea of « sovereignty, one and indivisible» with humanity in the people, as previously expressed by Jefferson and Tocqueville, in the context of the independence of the American colonies. Forty-five years later, it becomes imperative to understand what kind of society we want to create. We believe it is essential to continue to fight for the realization of the principles we now defend, with commitment equivalent to those we today honour because of their struggle for the designs of Freedom, Equality and Fraternity, as universal values. But Portugal is also today a country turned abroad. Respected on a global level. It is stated in its foreign policy at a higher level, faced with the proportion of its territorial dimension. This is visible through its summit and enthusiastic position in the process of European construction, its Atlantic dimension, its influence in the Mediterranean context and also its strong participation in international security issues. We are reminded of the commitment made by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and its evolutionary process, expressed in the revisions that have taken place. However, democratic practice does not end only in constitutional legislation. Creating, supporting, promoting, developing and dignitying the democratic process requires individual and collective responsibility, based on the ability to act on moral and ethical values, also understanding the need to act with moderation and tolerance. in this perspective, we understand that our political opponents and their views of society are equally respectful believers, as we and our conceptions. Only in this dialectic is it possible to build a democracy. in a time when the world and the generational becoming tend to dissipate memories about the tragic effects of totalitarian regimes, despotic, avian to moderation and tolerance, it is important to remember how democracy, which we sometimes judge a guaranteed and finished result, is fragile. Many are the cases in which democratic regimes, apparently consolidated, gave way to authoritarianism. Without fear and courage, we must observe carefully some events at the international level that have come to haunt the political-ideological horizon. In particular, the growing number of radical positions as proposals for solving problems and building societies. Such phenomena are also challenges to our ability to reinvent peace and cooperation solutions. That is why we reject any anachronistic ideological representations, such as « work against capital », « public against private », « left diabolizing the right », or their opposites. We are also sure that the Portuguese will reject any government that dares to administer the 'public thing' by using what belongs to everyone as if it were owned by any party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u22	We refuse that the criteria 'clipsistic-party' or nepotism overlap with merit and collective interest. [[PSD applause.]] The Social Democratic Party, 45 years after 25 April 74, continues to reaffirm its programmatic values of a structurally social nature, without deviating from the fundamental primacy that politics is, and must be, an instrument in the service of the general good of society, respect for human rights and the promotion of human dignity as a constant effect to be achieved. We defend as a path to the development of the country the social market economy, combining competitiveness and business freedom with social justice, promoting the fulfilment of the role of the State in minimizing inequalities and maximizing opportunities. We also defend private initiative as the proven mechanism capable of producing social, cultural and economic development. Similarly, we understand that dialogue and consultation are the permanent ways of understanding and convergence of wills in the pursuit of the common interest. Respect for the dignity of work and the freedoms, associative and trade union, are fundamental to achieving this desire. Despite today's referral to a celebration of the conquest of liberty, we could also take advantage of the opportunity to celebrate the fruitful international environment which has favored some of the options taken by the Government during this legislature. Unfortunately, we cannot commemorate the fact that these options have structurally strengthened the economy, or have managed to prepare the country to respond to the crisis signs that are already outlined in the international landscape. That, indeed, we cannot celebrate. instead, we remain focused and motivated to generate a governmental alternative, capable of creating real and structurally immune economic development to unfavourable economic conditions. We also commemorate the freedom of expression that enables us to underline the damage that causes the Portuguese to practice binary rhetoric; here, the pamphletist, to buy parliamentary support, and in Brussels, orthodox, in order to maintain the status of student applied. We have found that all 'government science' has been summed up in the exercise of current management appropriate to the interests of a tactical agenda in order to ensure the survival of the parliamentary coalition. It is understood, but it is counterproductive. We saw a political navigation of cabotage, always with the coast in sight, without reformist boldness capable of building development. Without structural reforms, our economy can even navigate reasonably, as long as the wind blows off. However, it becomes more evident that it will be difficult not to sink under adverse conditions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u23	in these circumstances, we continue to look with some apprehension at the future of the country. We would not like to see Portugal again subject to external financial aid, as happened in 2011. There were three and a half years about the beginning of the legislature. Our perception has been reinforced on the countless contradictions between the statements conveyed by the coalition troika and the reality of the country and the people. In rigor, and just to quote some sectors, we can verify that: justice has not ceased to be slow and sometimes out of time; complaints in the National Health Service have amplified; wages are low and unsatisfactory; decentralization has not come out of role and speech; the sustainability of social security continues to be threatened by death in the long term; the tax burden has not given any sign of decline. All of this, not to mention the high labour conflict and unprecedented strikes. Regardless of what you have been exposed here, today is a day of union around a greater good. [[PS laughter.]] Forty-five years after 25 April 74, it is time for us to continue the work of improving and deepening the democratic process. for our part, the Social Democratic Party, we are determined to act on that plan. We are motivated and mobilized to leave to the next generations such a positive and prosperous heritage that justifies the future evocation of the work that we build today. We honor Portugal! Take pride in the Portuguese! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u24	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. Presidents of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic and ladies, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mr. President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, Vice-Procurator-General of the Republic, Ombudsman, Mrs. Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, Mr. Vice-President of the Legislative Assemblys of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, Vice-President of the Regional Government of Madeira, Regional Secretary of the Regional Government of the Azores, Mr. Former Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Prime Ministers, Mr. Councillors d'État, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Chiefs of the Staff of the three branches of the Armed Forces, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Parliament, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Other Civil and Military Authorities, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. President of the Economic and Social Council, Mr. President and members of the Association Directorate 25 April, Illustrious Guests and Guests, Excellences, My Ladies and Gentlemen : Forty-five years later, we can proudly say that we are today a pluralist democracy, recognized as one of the most quality democracies in the world, but with problems that need to be solved. in a pluralist democracy, all the currents of opinion have their space of affirmation. in pluralist democracy, the individual finds his place of realization within a solidarity country, based on a contract that presupposes rights and duties. Democracy has its symbols, its rituals, its faces and its own values. On 25 April, the red nails, the Grandola, are symbols of the Democrats and of a whole democracy. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] These are our symbols, the symbols of our democracy, which we once again evoke and honor in the Assembly of the Republic. A democracy made of much citizen participation, made possible by the initial courage, whole and clean, of the Captains of April — and today I recall the name of Antonio Marques Júnior, Member of this House for years —,... [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira applauded.]] ... here represented by the Association 25 April, which I particularly welcome. A democracy marked by the founding leadership of men and women of different parties, with various political projects, but all great figures of State and Republic that returned on 25 April. Ladies and gentlemen: This XIII legislation has been marked by the strengthening of Parliament's role in the Portuguese institutional system, marked by unprecedented parliamentary centrality. New responsibilities always involve more and more scrutiny. Only irrelevant institutions are passing through the raindrops and escaping the scrutiny of public opinion. I continue to believe that openness, transparency and ethic of responsibility are the best antidotes against the growth of anti-parliamentary culture. Therefore, since the first hour, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, I have sought to promote an open door, transparency and participation policy. Not only on April 25, but every day of the year, because April is fulfilled daily! The old cry « April 25 always! » thus gain a renewed sense, lived and participated. As Mendès France argued, « democracy is not just to put an episode in a ballot box. Democracy is the citizen's continuous action'. So at the same time as we celebrate democracy and we realize our satisfaction with what we conquered in 45 years of freedom, we do not ignore the signs that come to us from society. Cultural signs, social signs, political signs. Signs that come from within democracy itself, such as the distance that separates elected and elected representatives, representatives and representatives. Signs that come to us from the functioning of our institutions, but that go far beyond them, through parties, trade unions and other civil society organizations. Democracy is this regime of permanent concern, permanent dissatisfaction and non-conformity, and our democracy is mature enough to respond to its own problems. It is only in dictatorship that there are never public criticisms, there is never independent judicial power or free social communication. Only in dictatorship is there is an appearance of eternal gratitude. In democracy, the best answer to voter confidence is to look to the future and to perceive, at every moment, the desires of those we represent, listening to the righteous criticisms of those who observe us and write wish. The best response to citizens' expectations is to demonstrate that we do not deal with facilitations, that we do not act lightly, that, like 45 years ago, we are committed to taking care of what is fragile and that it builds up every day: our democracy. To design the future, doing the pedagogy of democracy, a free and democratically elected Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen: It was this spirit that chaired the creation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions and, more recently, of the Working Group within the Conference of Leaders of the Assembly of the Republic, seeking to agree on the existing difficulties and harmony for dissonances. in this group, which has already completed its work, as I had requested, important consensus was obtained regarding the funds allocated, to the tax truth, the various recommendations of the Court of Auditors. As for the Eventual Commission, which is completing its work, incompatibilities and impediments are extended, the universe of holders subject to declarative obligations, creating sanctions for the concealment of the heritage, among other decisions, in this case, obtained by a majority. It has gone too far, for some, it has been below expectations for others. Time will take care to see results and possible weaknesses. In democracy, there is always room for improving democracy. But I must tell you today that it is not taking up the role of Parliament and the Members who are moving forward, it is not with lies and with misinformation that is advancing. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira applauds.]] It is with responsibility, respect and dedication to the public cause. In the face of innovations in information technology, we also launched the project of the Digital Parliament and the Parliament's Interpretation Centre. The Digital Parliament is in full operation and is an example of strengthening participatory democracy, more and better Parliament. As for the Interpretative Centre, despite the various procedural vicissitudes, we all hope that by 25 April it will be receiving visits from schools and all those who seek us. This reinforces the possibility of democratic participation, using new technologies and without the need for any legislative change. The democratic political parties here have tools that allow them to open up more to society, renewing ideas, leaders and activists. If they don't, others will. there is no doubt about this. Ladies and gentlemen: The Internet and social networks can in fact be a factor in the approach of people, peoples and institutions. Unfortunately, they have also worked as a means of disseminating false and defamatory content, often conveyed by anonymous agents using automation. They are the very founders of some of these social networks who recognize it. At the same time, we see professional journalism, done in accordance with the rules of ethics, losing space in the formation of opinion. Now, a democracy without the right to information and subject to the law of noise and pure propaganda is not a democracy worthy of that name. As Hannah Arendt said, « freedom of opinion becomes a farce when information on the facts is not guaranteed and when the facts themselves are not the subject of the debate ». This is a debate that is needed, because no democracy is immune to these risks, not even the oldest democracy in the world. Ladies and gentlemen: With all its shortcomings, the European project has brought peace, democracy and development to the old continent. Sometimes it is necessary to remember what is elementary. People are available to hear their representatives. So they hear, speak and decide according to the commitments they have made. It should be remembered that, in an increasingly integrated world, the national margin of manoeuvre is strengthened by regional integration dynamics. None of the major strategic challenges we face will be better solved by each State alone. This is the case with climate change, with the fight against terrorism — which, cowardly, attacks everyone, from Sri Lanka and New Zealand to France and the United States — with tax fraud and money laundering, with the challenges of digital transition and migration. The proud time of alone is coming. The Portuguese have left that time behind for 45 years and they don't want to come back there! Time doesn't go back. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The issue is putting globalisation, European integration and technological change at the service of people. The European Pillar of Social Rights must abandon the plan of intentions and move towards the concrete life plan of European citizens. Ladies and gentlemen: There is much talk of populism, of the spectrum of populism to peer into Europe. Sometimes I help myself with the expression. But, as Nanni Moretti said in the film Palombella Rossa, «the words are important». What do we talk about when we talk about populism? We're talking about ultra nationalism, xenophobia, authoritarian drifts. We are talking about hatred of immigrants, minorities, democratic parliamentaryism. We're talking about new clothes from the old extreme right. We're talking about the culture of fear and irrationality in politics, we're talking about perspectives of street violence and opinion conditioning. It is appropriate not to normalize what is not normalizable. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE, PCP, PSD and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It's really the extreme-right authority we're talking about. An extreme right that wants to divide the world between elites and masses, between liberals and conservatives, between cosmopolitans and patriots. The world doesn't work like that. The living conditions of people do not go through simple divisions between people and oligarchy or between conservative majority and identity minorities. The deepest political cleavage continues to be among those who fight all forms of inequality and those who only contribute to strengthening inequalities and social discrimination. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE, PSD and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This is the debate that is of interest to people's specific lives. That is where the current democratic disenchantment and the abstentionist gallop originates. This obsession with the individual and the private is dissolving our societies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u25	It is creating a struggle of all against everyone, a logic of saving whoever can, a worrying lack of humanist empathy. It is necessary to regain the sense of the collective, of the common, of the public space. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u26	It is not just Parliament and the political parties that have to open up to this awakening of citizenship. It is also the social partners, the trade union centres, who must understand that, without inclusion, active participation of the associates and justice in the demands, the tendency for fragmentation and for the strengthening of small but great power interests will be hardly reversible. Ladies and gentlemen: Fighting all forms of inequality and discrimination was one of the founding purposes of April 25. Therefore, in this last Legislative Session, I leave here a challenge for the next Parliament : that we can be as demanding with the social effects of public policies as we are about its economic and financial effect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u27	That, in addition to the various institutions which watch for budgetary rigor, the voices of those who have less voice arise in the public space: the voice of the poorest, the voice of all the victims of social discrimination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President of the Republic, I cannot end by taking advantage of the presence of you in this Chamber to once again enhance the way in which the Portuguese democratic system has prestigious. A democracy does not survive without Democrats, without solidarity between institutions and bodies of sovereignty. You are an example of democratic loyalty, in a relationship with Parliament that only enhances the prestige of both sovereign bodies. None is conditional and both have this consciousness. You have been a symbolic wall against populism growth, for the decisive and essential role you have taken during your presidency. History teaches us that no democratic political party benefits from the environments of radicalization, insult and manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen : In an election year I therefore leave an appeal to political and parliamentary leaders, who are able to hold a frank and loyal debate based on clear political alternatives. Democratic policy is essentially that: a tolerant confrontation between social interests and conflicting political programmes. Case policy is the weapon of the weak, of those who have neither ideas nor alternatives. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] It does not solve the structural challenges of the country nor the concrete problems of people. It only serves to undermine democracy and poison public life. To attempts to degrade the public space, we respond with republican exemplaryness and democratic conviction! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] to contempt for knowledge and culture, we respond to the democratic confrontation of arguments. The times that come, with the effort of all of us, will not be times of hatred, violence and demagogy, will be times of public service, of policies against inequalities, of defense of culture and of the country's heritage. by the Republic! for Democracy! on April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, standing, BE, The Greens, PSD and CDS-PP Member Teresa Caeiro.]] Mr President of the Republic will now send a message to the Assembly of the Republic. Please, Mr. President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u28	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic, President of the Assembly of the Republic and Prime Minister, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mrs. Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. Captains of April, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, My Ladies and Gentlemen : It would be said that it was yesterday, but it's been 45 years. It would be said that it was yesterday that the young militarists of April took part in the unique moment of the end of one regime and the birth of another, but it was already 45 years ago. Forty-five years back, let the rite repeat itself, but let it be more than a rite, let it be memory, let it be gratitude, let it be hope. May we testify to the resistance of decades, that we bear witness to the young military of then our indelible recognition: those who have gone, those who remain among us, those who will never forget what they have done, those who, moreover, continue to dream of a better future for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Dir-CL - if it was yesterday, but it has passed 45 years. And, 45 years ago, what were the expectations, the longings, the challenges, the causes of the young people in Portugal? this Portugal also young, despite the million who had voted with his feet, emigranting, refusing life without freedom, without further development, without greater social justice. I remember well, we remember what unites us, young people, with the opposite thoughts, with the dawn of change. It unites us: democracy, rather than dictatorship; freedom, rather than repression; integral development and social justice more shared, rather than economic inequality, social discrimination, fraternal rates of infant mortality, education and basic infrastructure; and peace in Africa, rather than military commitment without political solution. This unites us. Much more divides us: the concrete contours of the political regime; the system of government; the vision of Europe and the world; the role of the State, people and organizations; the path, the end, the rhythm of the Revolution; the scope of the Constitution and how it should be combined with the Revolution, extending it, moderate it or conforming it. As always happens with the revolutions, each one of many, very diverse, would see his designs triumph in the initial moment, some in several passages of the course, others in the first version of the Basic Law, others still in the summaries of the revisions that have been shaping it in new times and new ways. In rigor, of the young people of 74 none can say they have seen win all that they want for their own and our future, but, looking at the trailed way, it is right that everyone has finally seen a lot of the essential of their common denominator. Portugal went from dictatorship to democracy, extended to new universes, times and modes, exceeded indicators of education, health, housing, basic infrastructures, social security, which condemned to insufficient educational progression, to high mortality at birth, to living conditions and protection without horizon. It built all this with a late decolonization, in full Revolution, and would, therefore, derail so many returnees and leave on the ground so many years of armed combat, but knowing how to prepare the formation of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP ) and, by the way, beginning to live up to the challenge of European integration. No one would dare say that, in those decades, the youth of 74 and, with them, the oldest and most recent didn't live a agitated, demanding, non-linear adventure full of high and low. The Revolution: two years. The start of democracy, first with the Armed Forces Movement, another six years, then exclusively electoral basis, from 1982 onwards. Accession to European communities: eight-year process. The release of the CPLP: 11 more years. in the meantime, however, the approximation of our economic regime to Europeans for almost 20 years, many of which after accession itself. For many Portuguese and many Portuguese, the discovery of freedom itself would come with that of democracy and one with the conversion of a five-century colonial empire into a member of communities, which were not unpublished at the roots in their political, economic and social contours. Of course, essentially, we continue to be what we have always been — and well! — to meet our vocation at the summit: platform between cultures, civilizations, oceans and continents. Of course, sometimes we assume this singular historical turn, which is the closing of a cycle of five centuries, as if it were a smooth, natural and peaceful transition, without pain, if it were to be treated. We are inexhaustible in this regard that even the most difficult is easy and that the most deeply diverse is not a subtle accident of course. Today, 45 years later, he sends the truth, however, that we, the young people of 74, continue to prefer democracy, even the most imperfect, to dictatorship, even the most incensed, that we prefer reformism, even the most bold, to the demagogic rupture made of illusory basicisms, messianisms of impossible messiahs, sebastianisms of pasts that do not return, that we want more, much more, of our social and cultural democracy, which we want, much better, of our political and economic democracy,... [[Congrats from PSD MP Regina Bastos.]] ...we are not willing to forget what we have done to overcome barriers, exclusions and discriminations of nearly half a century ago. We look forward, much more, to Europe and the community of the speaking countries in Portuguese, but do not give in to the temptations or marginalizations of serodies or xenophobia or post-colonial traumas, whatever the pretexts or the seductions of the moment. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] We do not see these 45 years as a perfect, complete, finished work that leaves us dazzled, self-contemplating, accomplished. Far from that, we wish much more and much better, but we recognize that it was worth the founding step. It was worth it on April 25th! It was worth what, over the decades, cost so many, sacrificed destinations or goals that have not yet been achieved. It was worth it. One of the thousands of young people in the early 1970s who knew the vicissitudes of the dictatorship, now President of the Republic, in democracy, by the vote of the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What about today? What do you think, what you feel, what do young people want in 2019? It is that the regimes, particularly democracies, do not remain in the view of the past, have to be able to respond to the challenges of the present and the future. Is it enough for these young people to act with the existing ones in post-decolonization, development and democracy, or their dreams and needs are far more funds and vast? Post-decolonization? Yeah. Universal vision? Yes, they want it, if it means a more open, more dialogueative, more multilateral, more inclusive world, contrary to the cleavage that separates, which humiliates, that dehumanizes. But they want it in acts, in everyday gestures, in daily experiences. Whoa, whoa, all over the universe! They know that the times of fear explain the closures, the refusal of the other, of the different, of the stranger, but they were born and want to realize themselves in a humanization and humanizing, of the difference, not under the protectionism of the forced identity on the imposed walls. And don't count on them for past or future closures, borders-prisons, forbidden to circulate and circulate people, ideas and life projects. Democracy, yes! They do not want to return to dictatorships, but often cultivate a different participation, often inorganic, increasingly digital, and complain about the difficulty of traditional systems to cope with these new ways of acting, interacting, intervening, influencing, aspireing to decide. This concern becomes attractive appeal to ideas, movements, demands, accelerations, dysfunctions, that democracy, in its more classic contours, of another rhythm and other configuration, has to understand and know how to conjugate, under the penalty of condemning itself to mere forms with increasingly less content. And don't count on them for past or future soprances, obsolete organic or ineffective, clienteleisms, chronic delays in the face of social problems. Development for more and greater social justice, yes! But these general and abstract objectives are less worth at the end of the second decade of the 21st century, even very little if they are not accompanied by choices, steps, very concrete and visible milestones, and faster, in education, health and social solidarity. And do not count on them for past or future indifference or Community resignations. The young people of 2019 want, in addition to all this, unequivocal answers to some urgent questions. When and how Portugal will return to want to be a society to rejuvenate, for those who are born and for those who receive from outside — I say well, for those who receive from outside! — and not to age it step by step, finally allowing all, young people, in their social dynamism, and the younger ones, in their fight against getatization, a renewed collective hope? Oh, my God! When and how will we even address the inequalities that still persist, which continue to undermine our cohesion, between people, groups and territories — underlining territories — which delay development, empty decentralization, bring new poor people together with the old poor? Oh, my God! When and how will we anticipate what comes there, in this era of digital revolution, in employment and at work, in the face of scientific and technological changes that will, in 5 to 10 years, change the productive systems, dispense people or rearrange them in their activities and prospects of tomorrow? Oh, my God! When and how will we be able to explain to the least young, and many, in an aging society, that there is even climate change, that there are even intergenerational duties, that fighting for so-called development sustainability is not Byzantine half a dozen illuminators or agitators, a fashion of the younger, a mere conspirative maneuver coming from outside to benefit from the Western or European indecisions? Oh, my God! Most of these causes did not exist or were not decisive for the young people of 74. Portugal was, himself, young. Inequalities were indeed more shocking, but it was believed that economic growth alone would solve them or attenuate them irreversibly. Digital was a non-existent revolution. The future of work and environmental care were concerns of very minority minorities. The young people's challenge of 25 April 1974 was very national and very focused on three summit goals: peace in Africa and hence decolonization, democracy and development, seen in the short term. The young people's challenge of 25 April 2019 is much more global, much more complex, much more demanding, in the diversity of the factors it depends on and the extended period it involves. More ambition in post-colonial Portugal. More ambition in democracy. More ambition in demography. More ambition in cohesion. More ambition in the digital age and in anticipation of the future of employment and work. More ambition in the struggle for a sustainable world. All, with the growing economy, dependence on debt to decrease, financial wisdom to safeguard, increased justice in sharing. Everything, without excluding anyone! Not the least young, as we are today the youth of 74, not the younger ones, that is, the young ones today. Does this sound like an impossible program? Maybe. But history is always made of programs, ideals, impossible dreams. And the History of Portugal is the history of a country that was born impossible. An impossibility almost 900 years old! Why would the generations of today be the first to renounce building the impossible? Oh, my God! Why should we be— precisely us! — not to believe in Portugal? Oh, my God! May they live forever on the paths of freedom, democracy and dignity of the Portuguese and Portuguese whom April has embraced! May Portugal live forever! [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP, stand up, and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-25.u29	I declare closed the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLV Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 11 hours and 47 minutes.]]
