ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the plenary meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Security officers please open the gates of the galleries. We shall enter the agenda, the first of which is contained in Vote No 754 / XIII ( 4 ). ( a) — In spite of the victims of domestic violence ( PAR ), which will be read by me and followed by the interventions of the various parliamentary groups and the NAP. I shall now read the vote, which is as follows: "Home violence is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon that crosses all social classes, ages, genders, religions, cultures, ethnic groups, sexual orientations, education or civil states. Portugal, as a state of democratic and European law, has a broad and comprehensive legislative framework which directly or indirectly confronts this scourge in its various aspects and dimensions. However, this is a social reality that is lost and enduring in time, of a structural nature and deep roots, encompassing different kinds of abuse, in which shame and fear are associated with the feeling of protection by the victims, competing for the hesitation in the denunciation and feelings of apology and impunity by the aggressors, hindering the prevention and elimination of violence, the punishment of the aggressors and the protection of the victims. The inability to respond to these victims finds expression in the number of murdered women who have complained of domestic violence and have asked for help without the competent bodies or society providing them with the protection and security that is imposed, which is intolerable and unacceptable. Only this year have 11 women and one child been murdered in the context of domestic violence and, unfortunately, yesterday the number has increased. in the last 15 years, on average, 35 women per year died. We must urgently do more and better. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its most vehement repudiation of all forms and acts of domestic violence and violence against women, pays its sincere tribute to the victims and expresses its deep sorrow to their families and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ” On behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this day of national mourning, we note our grief for the victims of the scourge of domestic violence, giving them our heartfelt tribute. We express our deep respect for all the people who seek to resist, day by day, gender violence and domestic violence, showing our solidarity with family members and support networks, as well as our gratitude to those and professionals who work tirelessly on the ground to appeal to complaints, ensure the protection of the victims, raise awareness of the population and promote that profound political and social change that we all want. Domestic violence is transversal to society as a whole, overcoming social, age, cultural, gender or sexual orientation issues. It is founded on suffering, silence, frustration, shame, inequality and cruel manifestations of power, but also on inaction and social neglect to which we cannot stay. Today, the NAP expresses its regret and total repudiation for all forms of violence, joining its voice to those who claim the end of a era of guilt of the victims and of the aggressors, still imposed by both society and the judicial system, which continues to diminish violence and not protect women.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u3	On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Twelve women victims of domestic violence in two months of 2019 demonstrate the brutality of this scourge and the need to act for all people, mostly women, who continue to be attacked, beaten, humiliated, pressured, raped by aggressors in family context. An average of 30 daily complaints demonstrates the size of the problem and we well know the magnitude of cases that are not reported. The problem of domestic violence has not been, especially in recent years, outside the political agenda. Legislative, administrative and planning measures have been adopted to combat this barbarity, but the truth is that domestic violence continues to victimize a very significant set of women. One thing, then, is that one thing is what is in the law and another is the creation of conditions on the ground so that the answers are effective and effective. The Greens reaffirm that we must proclaim and practice zero tolerance in relation to domestic violence. This goal leads us not to accept the idea that it is a question of mentalities that can lead many generations to eradicate and that there is little more to do than it is done. Generalizing and cementing the perception of abnormality, of unacceptableness, of repudiation for these phenomena is a duty on which public authorities cannot resign. It is therefore necessary to continue to act through the training and awareness of the general population. The responses to generate conditions for the removal of the aggressor and for the support of the victim, in ensuring its dimension of security, protection and autonomy, are another component that must be continuously strengthened by the public authorities. On the other hand, it is important to realize that if those agents from whom the safest hand is expected to materialize the conditions for the end of a domestic violence case, it is the whole system that ceases to produce the necessary effects. It is therefore normal and legitimate that the security forces and the magistrates of this country — and I fear - they are very competent - require sensitivity to the problem, appropriate times of action and effective decisions. The removal of the Neto de Moura judge from the trial of domestic violence crimes is an example of how the conscience of society gains strength to demand that the system be credible and that in some cases the victims are not being respected and the responsibility of the aggressors be softened. Tolerance zero to domestic violence is a responsibility of the whole society and requires action and continuous action by the public authorities. [[Congratulations by Os Verdes, the PCP, the PS Member Alexandre Quintanilla and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u5	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Domestic violence is a heinous crime, a social scourge, a shocking violation of human rights. It often represents years, decades and even an entire life of psychological terror, deep suffering and inhumane acts of brutality on women and children. In 1989, on a proposal from the CFP, the first legislative initiative on the protection of women victims of domestic violence was discussed. Adopted on 8 March 1991, it was only from that time that the governments adopted measures to protect women victims of violence. After 28 years, and despite the steps taken by successive governments and the alleged centrality of the debate, women continue to be victims of violence without guarantees of effective protection. Since the beginning of the year, in less than three months, 13 women and one child were murdered, almost half of the deaths of women last year. After 28 years, structural phenomena of violence on women persist in Portugal, requiring specific, articulated and integrated measures to prevent this heinous phenomenon, to protect victims and to eradicate this scourge. It is urgent to strengthen public services with adequate material and human resources and with the necessary training in the SNS (National Health Service ), in social security, in the security forces and services, in the judicial authorities. It is urgent to ensure the effectiveness of measures to prevent violence — in love, in the family, in society — and the public school has an irreplaceable role here. It is urgent to ensure the effective implementation of victim protection measures. It is urgent to provide psychological support to all victims throughout the proceedings: from the complaint at the police station, in situations where house-to-home reception is or is not, at different times of decision-making, at all stages of the judicial process and until the beginning of a new life. The CFP today presents a legislative initiative aimed, among other measures, at the establishment of a national committee for the prevention and protection of victims of violence, similar to that of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk, with functions of coordination, prevention, protection and monitoring of victims. It is a proposal that we want to see discussed and which constitutes a measure to defend the rights of victims. Women victims of domestic violence have the right to be protected throughout the process and, in the light of the Constitution, the State has direct responsibilities for this purpose. The effective protection and trust of victims is crucial in the process of emancipation of each of them and the Government should ensure the public investment necessary for this: the recruitment of psychologists to teams and multidisciplinary teams to support the courts; the strengthening of the number of social reintegration technicians; the strengthening of the training of teachers, health professionals, magistrates, security forces agents; the extension of programs with aggressors; the protection and regular follow-up to all victims of domestic violence. Combating domestic violence and all forms of violence against women is a daily struggle that cannot be overcome. [[Congratulations from the PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u7	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2019 counts 66 days. The year 2019 has 12 women and a child of two years dead, victims of domestic violence. Today, on March 7, 2019, national mourning was decreed by these victims and by all the others who have already lived or are now in silence and silence, unjust and unworthy, in a criminal context of domestic violence. It is a day in the domain of the symbolic that does not intend in itself to solve anything, but its value is this: today, we do not shrink the shoulders assigned to the news that seem distant, but that so often they are close to our door; today, we are called to look forward to a reality that is unacceptable in any sense of human dignity. Parliament, as a collective of women and men representing Portuguese citizens, assumes its share of responsibility, which is understood as the obligation to respond by 'the entrusted thing' — the security and dignity of all. But today's responsibility must contain an answer. The symbolic must have a real consequence. And there are good realities on the ground. The CDS recently visited the Julia Space, in Lisbon, which links the Freguesia Board, the PSP and the Capuchos Hospital, and visited the PSP Support and Information Office, in the Port, which involves the CPCJ (Child Protection Committee), the DIAP ( Department of Research and Criminal Action ) and the Institute of Legal Medicine, which in six years received more than 7000 requests for help, without registration of fatal victims. Examples like these must be replicated by the country. But there is more to be done: the criminal frameworks of the crimes of blood must be rebalanced against those of economic crimes; the provisions on the crime of threats and coercion must be revised; the formation of judges must be strengthened in the areas of domestic and gender violence; and it is urgent to act in prevention and in greater coordination between the responsible entities, so that the participations of occurrences do not end up as statistical records, so that the threats do not normalize a daily suffering, so that the risks announced repeatedly do not turn into deaths. The Members of Parliament and the Members of the CDS fully associate themselves with this vote of regret. That these deaths, violent and early, have at least the meaning of a definitive warning and that opens up a time favorable to a movement of change of attitudes and actions, because domestic violence cannot again have no power, of any one of us, any sign of complacency. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, from the PS and PS Members and from the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u9	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 15 years 503 women have died in Portugal and thousands of children, also victims, have been orphaned and marked for the rest of their lives. This year, in addition to these 503 women, more than 12 women and one child have already died in the context of domestic violence— 5 January, Lúcia, 48 years old, died with a gunshot; 7 January, an unknown woman, killed by beating and beheaded; 11 January, two women killed by shooting; 17 January, Fernanda, killed by shooting; 11 January, Vera, killed by beating; 27 January, plus one woman killed by beating and beheading; 31 January, another woman, killed by knife, was found by the five-year-old son on the kitchen floor; 4 February, plus one injured woman; 17 February, a woman killed by two shots; 6 March, yesterday, the tenth woman, aged 39 years old, was found dead by strangulation. Domestic violence is crime—we have said several times—which most kills in Portugal and has been considered a public crime since 2000. So we have the law, we have the measures, we have programmes and action plans, and we often have a consensus on this in this House. however, we continue to have close to 30,000 complaints of domestic violence per year and we know that it is only the tip of the iceberg. We continue to have an average of 35 women murdered per year, we continue to fail to protect these women, their children and their families, we continue to devalue domestic violence, when we should view it as one of the most serious public security problems in the country. Women are still dying... We have said several times that we need training, education, sensitization, more and better articulation between the various entities and the various actors with responsibility, but we also need to ensure that domestic violence has, in the law, mainly in the Criminal Code, the importance it holds in real life, in the concrete life of these women and of so many families. We need no longer to have judgments that devalue violence, that excuse the aggressors and blame the victims; we need no longer to have sentences that invoke the Bible, that refer to societies where women are murdered by stoning or that consider a young and autonomous woman cannot be a victim of domestic violence. We do not accept and cannot continue to have sentences that naturalize repugnant and censorable acts! Tomorrow, on International Women's Day, we will strike in Portugal — the first feminist strike at international level, which joins so many other strikes in so many other countries. We stop for equal rights at work and in education, for equal opportunities and for treatment, but we stop, too, to say « Enough! , to say « No more domestic violence! “ Stop being dead! ” “ Stop being beaten! ” “Stop being humiliated! ” , « We just need to be unprotected by justice, the justice system and society! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I sincerely regret all the victims and all the family members and friends of women who have been murdered for domestic violence all these years. [[Congratulations from BE and the honourable Member who did not register Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u11	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is with deep regret that Members of Parliament and Members of the Socialist Party associate themselves with the vote presented by the President of the Assembly of the Republic by the victims of domestic violence and their families. Women, and many men on their side, face many struggles, at the same time in the early twenty-first century; these struggles are almost always hard, for which patience, persistence, endurance — very much — are needed to overcome them or even to know how to lose them and start again. They are fought in public space and in private space, the most difficult, the most invisible, the most solitary. These are struggles that should have been won even in the 20th century, such as those of balanced representation in certain professions and in executive positions, including political representation, non-wage discrimination or equality in the distribution of tasks within the home. They are struggles that prevent future inequalities in this century, such as training in technological areas, where more and better jobs will be created in the next decade. And they are civilizational struggles, which are part of the human condition, struggles that, in fact, in no century, and much less in the 21st century, should have had to be stopped. They are fights against cases that offend our reason and fill our heart with sadness: from female genital mutilation to the forms of excessive domestic violence. And yet there they are, so present in so many parts of the world, including Portugal, the country where we live. We unite our efforts, not just today, to change this culture more quickly, to protect the victims and not to allow the aggressors to be unpunished. For once in life, let us all be radically intolerant with tolerance to domestic violence. [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD Member Conceição Bessa Ruão, CDS-PP Member Teresa Caeiro and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u13	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The PSD Parliamentary Group is naturally associated with this vote and this day of national mourning on behalf of all victims of domestic violence, their families and their friends. But, Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, more than we are associated with this day, we want here today to reaffirm our political commitment to preventing and combating all forms of violence, especially gender-based violence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation, who is responsible for these areas, and other Members. Members of the Government: We well know that today's day of mourning is symbolic, but we cannot stop in symbolism! More than one day of mourning, victims of domestic violence need, yes, that the government offers 365 days of struggle to eradicate this scourge of our society and that the system gives horses, effective and preventive answers, so as to avoid these deaths that this year are already 12. Mr Prime Minister, Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization and other members of the Government : The victims of domestic violence do not need Mr Prime Minister to come now to announce a working group in order to promote a period of 72 hours to be applied to the victim protection measures, as well as coercion measures to the aggressor, attempting to ignore that this obligation has already existed in the law since 2015, but has not been consistently fulfilled. The warnings regarding this non-compliance have been made by a number of experts and also by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Victims need to work 365 days for the government to invest in security forces, in the formation of judicial magistrates, in aid to early detection of cases of domestic violence, in awareness-raising campaigns with national impact on the media, in the network of solidarity municipalities — a network that supports the process of empowerment of victims — in preventing and combating domestic violence every year and every day. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than one day of mourning, we must work to promote procedures to include, in the national health system, the systematic detection of the risk of violence within the family, in particular by introducing concrete issues into screening processes, as well as their registration, in accordance with existing technical references. Let's work, we'll offer 365 days of struggle to perfect the system! The diagnosis is done, experts have made recommendations. Let's get to work! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This is the challenge the PSD Parliamentary Group brings here to everyone today in consensus. Let us not resign ourselves and work together 365 days of the year to owe domestic violence and all forms of violence, and so that there will not be a woman again — as has happened — who, for 98 days, has resorted to the system, asking for help from the police and the Public Prosecutor, but as the system did not have how to help her ended up dying. So that this doesn't happen, let's work together 365 days a year! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having a quorum, we shall immediately proceed to the vote on vote No 754 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — In spite of the victims of domestic violence. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, following the vote we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister, which takes place today under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. First of all, you have the floor to ask the Government, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I believe there is a question which, with all the border, is required to ask Mr Prime Minister today : how does Mr Prime Minister face to tell the country that there is no more money for health, that there is no more money for education, that there is no more money for culture... [[PSD laughter.]] ... that there is no money to take into account the counting of all the time of service for teachers and professionals from other special careers and that then when it comes to injecting capital into the private bank, as is the case now with the New Bank, there is always money, it always appears and never fails? I think there's something else to say, Prime Minister : The Greens think it's time to stop doing crazy people,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... when it is said that they do not pay a euro that is for capital injection into the New Bank or banks in general, because it is from the Resolution Fund that all this money comes out. It occurs, Prime Minister, that the Resolution Fund is being fed with taxpayers' money because the money that the bank puts there is irrelevant to the values in question. Therefore, on this issue of the New Bank, what really happened — and the political responsibilities must be assumed — was the following: the PSD and the CDS were responsible for a process of solving the BES absolutely disastrous and absolute falsehood, and the PS government ended the work with a symbolic sale to Lone Star, with a disastrous contract, curfew of public money, which Mr Finance said would not be necessary to make available. What is it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u17	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u18	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, when I say that there is no more money for anything, I say where we have given priority to investing the money. I say we invest money in hiring over 9000 professionals for the National Health Service ;... [[PSD protests.]] ... I say we invest money by reducing the number of students per class to improve the quality of our teaching; I say we invest money in 200 works that we have in recovery;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u19	Look at that! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u20	... I say we invest money in creating a new generation of housing policies, which this year mobilises EUR 40 million as the first step towards the creation of programme 1. the law; I say we give priority to the promotion of public transport, with the creation of a new tariff regime for social passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u21	For some! Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u22	That's what we did. And in the same way I say that we have done it by resting the wages that were cut off, the pensions that were cut down, reducing the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) payment for workers. And what I answer to is why I don't have any money to make expenses that I never promised to do is that I have to have money to do what I promised to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u23	Another thing, quite different, is what happens with the New Bank. We invested taxpayers' money in a single bank. There is only one bank whose capital has been strengthened with taxpayers' money; there is only one bank whose solvency has been secured with taxpayers' money, for the protection of family savings, for the stability of our financial system and for support to the functioning of the economy. This bank is called General Deposit Box. with regard to the New Bank, the State did not invest money from taxpayers by nationalising it; the State did not invest money from taxpayers by buying it; the State did not invest money from taxpayers by offering a guarantee; the State simply lent money for, at 30 years, to be paid by banks, to the Resolution Fund, the money that the State lent to the Resolution Fund. Madam Member, there is a huge difference between making spending and granting a loan. And it is not legitimate to make this confusion, even if it remains in a political discourse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u24	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens well know where the government has invested in this legislature, because we have fought a lot for these investments to be made and for these incomes to be restored. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u26	And we have absolutely no doubt that if it weren't for our efforts, that would not have been achieved. We have no doubt about that. But if there is a loan is because there is money available and what the government is doing is using taxpayers' money to clean up the New Bank. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to tell you the following: if we're spending money on that bank for cleaning, he should be under public control,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u27	...for the benefit of the country and for the benefit of the dynamization of our economy. While this profit was for the shareholder State that this profit should revert to the benefit of the country. That was the right solution. All the rest that has been done so far is absolutely disastrous and continues to be a bakery of public money that the Portuguese do not have the ability to pay. If we pay, then the bank must be under public control, for the benefit of the country. Another question, and last, which I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, has to do with the Fridão Dam. If it is not built so far it is also due to the foothold that The Greens have made so that it is not built. It seems that, in all the statements you have made on this matter, the Minister for the Environment understands that his wish is that it will be built and that this decision will now be taken at the end of the legislature. I ask Mr Prime Minister : are you in a position to say that the government will not commit such a nonsense and an environmental crime of this kind, with repercussions on such serious issues as water quality or erosion on our coast?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u28	Mrs. Member, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, please don't commit this nonsense and this environmental crime. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u30	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u31	Mr. President, Mrs. Heloísa Apolónia, when a bank lends us money, for example for the purchase of a house, it is not offering us the house,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u32	from here to 30 years you'll receive it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u33	He's lending us the money, which we're going to pay with interest. When the State, through the Resolution Fund, lends money for the recapitalisation of the New Bank is not offering money to banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u34	He's wasting it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u35	...is lending to recover you also with interest. It is exactly the same situation as the loan. Then what are the alternatives? First, the Resolution Fund still maintains 25 % of the bank's capital. If the alternative had been nationalising the bank, buying the bank, staying with the bank, it meant that, instead of the limited risk we have today, instead of the financing in the form of loan we have today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u36	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u37	I shall now conclude, Mr President. If the alternative had been to nationalize the bank, rather than the financing in the form of loan we have today, what we would have, as we did in the General Deposit Box — and well, because this is a public bank — is an unlimited responsibility for the whole black hole that was in the so-called 'good bank' and we would have no more one. That is why, Mrs Deputy, that when we consider a solution, it is always necessary to look at what would be the alternative solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u38	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u39	I ask you, Madam Member : would you prefer a solution where we have a limited risk and the funding made in the form of a loan, or a fund-based investment lost of unlimited responsibility? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] For me, I have no doubt, and I think that taxpayers also have no doubts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u40	It is now the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group to ask questions. To that end, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this government, when it sold the New Bank, in October 2017, sold it with a contingent capital mechanism, a kind of guarantee of around EUR 3890 million for possible losses of the bank, which would be used until 2025. With its own optimism, the Minister of Finance would say, 8 months after the sale: "If the process of evolution of the New Bank continues to run like until today, the number of EUR 3890 million will not be reached. » I repeat: « it will not be reached»! The Minister of Finance said this after a first capital injection of the Resolution Fund, which made five months after the sale in March 2018 of EUR 800 million. The Minister of Finance then breathed optimism. In March 2019, a few days ago, the New Bank again requested, not 800 million, but 1150 million. The Minister of Finance has stopped breathing optimism. The Minister of Finance was surprised by the situation. And the surprise is evident in the expression, which he used, "I was waiting for a descending profile, it came out of me an ascending profile", which is like anyone says, I was expecting it to be less, but it came out more. In fact, it was more; more EUR 800 million than was expected. My question, Prime Minister, is this: was you also expecting more than 800 million euros than what was planned? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u42	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u43	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, when in 2017 the Banco de Portugal alienated the New Bank, what the Government said was that it would not grant a guarantee because the buyer had doubts about what would be found in the bank accounts and that it had doubts whether that bank was even a "good bank" and that everything that was bad would remain in the « bad bank ». Today we know, unfortunately, that these fears were perhaps founded and that separation did not generate a « good bank » and « bad bank », but unfortunately generated a « bad bank » and « bad bank ». [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] What we refused was a guarantee because this guarantee involved unlimited responsibility for what would be found in that bank. We therefore limit the maximum amount of quota capital. The quota capital has this limit, is granted in the form of a State loan to the Resolution Fund, which is a public entity, and will be paid over 30 years throughout the banking system, through its annual contributions. It is therefore money that has been advanced to prevent or liquidate the bank or more a failure in the sale of the bank — such as that previously attempted — that would inevitably lead to liquidation or nationalisation. With liquidation, we would have deposits at risk, jobs at risk, stability of the financial system at risk. With nationalisation we would at least have an unlimited risk on the part of the State regarding the financial needs of the New Bank. The risk would never be limited to EUR 3800 million, it would be all that was needed to ensure the bank's solvency. And, moreover, it would not be in the form of a 30-year-old recoverable loan, it would be completely lost and forever. It was this risk that we did not want and that is why we limited the risk that was generated by the bank resolution in 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u44	You have the floor, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was very bad the way in which the sale process happened and the subsequent form.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u47	That seems to be a very bad situation, Prime Minister. A real look and indeed a situation in which, after all, your forecast is coming out frankly disappointing to all. In fact, I quote Mr. Minister of Finance, who said regarding the New Bank : « The solution we have found was difficult, but it has a very great virtue: it has very clear limits and predictability on financial impacts ». Mr Prime Minister, this predictability is as follows: after less than two years after the sale, half of the funds available for the quota capital have already been spent. My question is whether this will have a limit on the predictability of Mr Finance. Are you really going? Does the Prime Minister have the opportunity to guarantee the Portuguese that there is even a limit to this quota capital of the Resolution Fund? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u48	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u49	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, predictability is guaranteed by the maximum amount. That is why the honourable Member says 'have already consumed half', which means that they cannot consume more than the other half, that is the limit. Secondly, it is subject to an annual limit of EUR 850 million and the best demonstration of the advantage of predictability is that, despite the results and the request now made, we will not need a amending budget to increase the expenditure, nor will we fail to meet the debt limits we have proposed for this year, nor will we increase the deficit on what we have proposed for this year, nor will we have to increase the taxes to pay for this. That is, because it was predictable and therefore was not an uncontrolled situation. But, Mr Monteiro, as I have already had the opportunity to say yesterday, I am sure that the Government, the Banco de Portugal and Dr. Sérgio Monteiro have nothing to hide that prevents the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry so that it can be seen as well as the resolution was done, as was managed by the Bank after the resolution, how alienation was conducted and how the Government, in the context in which it was, saved the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] for our part, we are only grateful that someone promotes the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u50	Mr Adam Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u51	Mr President, Prime Minister, in fact you were surprised at the value of EUR 1150 million. They were not expecting, it was a surprise for you, and then they started shooting everywhere and started saying « we are going to an audit », « we are going to a parliamentary committee of inquiry ». Mr Prime Minister, who is also Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, yesterday said « we are going to a parliamentary commission of inquiry! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It seems that his party didn't follow his steps, his challenge. After all, what's going on with this? Is it because Mr. Prime Minister realized, however, that a parliamentary committee of inquiry at this end of the legislature would no longer have much cabbage? Secondly, with regard to the audit, Mr Prime Minister, I have already heard and read a lot about the audit and, indeed, I have heard the Minister of Finance say about it yesterday too. My question is this: this audit, if done, also has to do with the sale process and the subsequent process for the sale of the New Bank, or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u53	Mr President, honourable Member, yesterday a journalist asked me if there was a difference between the Government and the President of the Republic, because the Minister of Finance had ordered an audit at the pre-resolution stage, as was done exactly at the General Deposit Box, and the President of the Republic said there was a need for an audit at the post-resolution stage. What I had the opportunity to explain is that in our institutional system, it is not up to the government to supervise the Banco de Portugal. Therefore, since the Bank was managed by Banco de Portugal from the time of the resolution, it would not compete with the Government, and from my point of view, neither legally nor constitutionally, order an audit to the action of Banco de Portugal after the time of the resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u55	I therefore said that if there is curiosity and interest in knowing how the resolution was done, how did the Banco de Portugal manage the Bank after the resolution, how did Dr. Sergio Monteiro negotiate the first attempt to sell, how did the second attempt to sell, for our part we are fully available for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because the Assembly of the Republic, contrary to the Government, can do so, through a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and find out what arouses curiosity to the President of the Republic, which naturally arouses curiosity to many Portuguese people and I must say that even I am curious, because I would also like to know the internal audits of the Banco de Portugal, which have never been published or even transmitted to the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u56	Mr Adam Silva continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, the PSD Parliamentary Group also liked to know a lot about this sale process and the subsequent process. Moreover, we have repeatedly asked that this information be sent to us and it has not arrived. That is why we insist, and that is why today, the Minister for Finance will be in the Committee on Budgets and Finance explaining this matter. We want to know everything in the name of the interest of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u59	Mr Prime Minister spoke of the differences between the Government and the President of the Republic and me, with this matter, I am referring to another issue, which has to do with the question of Montepio and the suitability of the President of the Mutual Association. After all, it looks like it was all right. Mr. Minister of Social Security said: "It's all right, it's all clear, who has responsibility is the ASF ( Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ), it's not the government. And Mr President of the Republic made it very clear that this had to be clarified. And that is because a mutual association with 630 000 partners who have their savings there must, of course, be very carefully scrutinized and the suitability of those who are in charge of this entity must also be highly scrutinized, must be very well demonstrated. That is why my question is very simple: why does the government then, at the end of this whole time, change its position and, after all, want to clarify what was already so clear? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u60	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u61	You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u62	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, as you know, it was the Government that promoted the amendment of the Code of Mutual Associations and the modification of the supervision of mutualities, the protection of the ministry to the regulator of the insurance system. Our deep conviction is that the legislative amendment clearly confers competence, and from now on, to the ASF to assess the whole system of governance, including the suitability of the holders of the institutions' governing bodies. Why don't we clear up first? Because we had no doubt, we were even convinced that this was the clear and unequivocal import. But if there is doubt, not only of the ASF, but also of other entities, Member, there is nothing about the doubts being clarified and the Government will publish an interpretative rule which, being authentic interpretation, has effects from the date of entry into force of the diploma and which removes any alibi to the ASF to stop doing what it is responsible for, which is also to assess the suitability of those managing the mutualist entities and, in the specific case, Dr. Tomás Correia. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u63	Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u64	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact, the government has now been amazed with doubts, which is truly extraordinary, because a week ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u65	Don't tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u66	It is true, Mr Prime Minister, that a week ago Mr Social Security — who, in fact, is a very competent person in these matters and who has been Minister of Social Security for about eight years; no one in Portugal, after 25 April, has been Minister of Social Security for so many years — had no doubts! [[PS protests.]] But suddenly, they were stressed out and there were doubts. [[They've been convinced!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u67	I tell you one thing, Prime Minister : where there is no doubt is about the average waiting time of pension processing by the National Pension Centre. Today, I would even like to raise this question because in September 2018 we asked the Minister for Social Security to explain to Parliament what is happening with the National Pension Centre, which is increasingly taking months and months for pensioners living in Portugal to have their pension and which takes years and years for pensioners living outside the country to have their pension. Mr Prime Minister, see, Mr Minister said nothing, he did not say that he was coming and we are waiting for him to say something, he said when he finally came to the Commission. And the question I ask you is whether this behaviour of a minister who, in the face of such a matter and gravity, is normal, six or seven months without saying whether or not Parliament is coming to explain why the National Pension Centre is not working well. Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you the following: what we are talking about is thousands of pensioners or potential pensioners, people who have worked a life and have paid off for social security. Now the state does not do them any favors, the money is the pensioner's, the money is the citizen's, and the state cannot fail to give him that money as urgently as possible. Many, in fact, are going through a lot of trouble and my question is, when does the government put an end to this unusual length of time in the allocation of pensions to the elderly? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. Mr. Prime Minister : - Mr. President, Mr. Member, let us start with the first question. Firstly, the government has no doubts. All the legal opinions produced in the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security — I can even say all the legal opinions I have in my own office — confirm the interpretation which I myself also have that the law assigns to the ASF from the outset — that is, since the transfer of the supervisory competence — total competence to assess the suitability of Dr. Tomás Correia. So we have no doubts, we are confronted with the fact that there are other people with doubts and that the ASF has a divergent interpretation. Therefore, since we cannot give orders to the ASF there is only one way to resolve the doubts of the ASF : with an interpretative standard that makes clear to us that the ASF has competence to make the assessment of the suitability of Dr. Tomás Correia. That's what we're going to do to end this doubt and have the ASF do what it's up to and probably should've done. As for the second question you have raised, you are absolutely right. People have the right to receive their pension in time and time, they have the right not to cut their pension and to be assigned to them and recognized, when required, in the shortest amount of time. As you know, we have a huge shortage of resources in social security. Fortunately, we withdrew from mobility the 600 social security officials who had been placed there at the end of the previous legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have opened a new contract for the hiring of 155 technicians and we have recruited, while the competition is tough, service providers either through internal mobility or through PREVPAP, or through simplification measures. We have strengthened our capacity and, therefore, our forecast is that within three months, by the end of this semester, we have solved this situation of delay. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u69	Resolve it, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u70	Mr Adam Silva, there is still time. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u71	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you do not have time and I will not be unkind to ask you questions, but I will make a comment by spending the time I have. Mr Prime Minister, really, this situation is unacceptable, because those who work for a lifetime and legitimately expect to be entitled to their pension cannot wait for eternity, months and years, so that this right can be realized. It has to be as fast as possible. Mr Prime Minister, you list a number of measures that the Government is taking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u72	Mr. Deputies, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u73	They solve the problem, overcome this situation and dignify the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u74	We moved on to the PS Parliamentary Group. To put your questions, you have the word Mrs. Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, I will return to the moment that you brought us here, when you joined us in struggle, in solidarity with the victims of a scourge that today has agreed with another victim. We are all summoned to say and do. Gender equality is a constitutional principle and an obligation of the State. First, it is the law that, speaking by the State, should say of the behaviors that are unacceptable and of the only acceptable parameters in making concrete decisions that potentially affect half of the population. Yeah, we're half the population. It is thus clear that the law must be clear in its secularity and in the realization, without exception, of the principle of gender equality. The law must be the rejection of sexism. The law does for equality when it ends the criminal prosecution of poverty through decriminalization of IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy), by free decision of the woman, up to 10 weeks — law at risk, not the current parliamentary majority —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u77	... and when it allows all, but all women use WFP (assisted drug procreation) to be mothers, which is possible since we finished in 2016 with the sexist and homophobic imposition of terms to be protected by a man for that purpose. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has a long history of intransigent defense of the rule of law and, therefore, of the Constitution, even when this defence is not popular—and here we will need Mr Prime Minister to clarify us. In the light of the news that the government will submit to the study the creation of special courts for domestic violence, which is very clear what we have already stated in this regard: such courts, or, moreover, special courts for corruption and out there, are blatantly unconstitutional. Article 209 ( 4 ). the Constitution clearly provides that « the existence of courts with exclusive jurisdiction is prohibited for the trial of certain categories of crimes ». We know the historical burden of this precept and we also know that there is no good solution prevented by the fundamental law, but a very, very dangerous solution, fortunately prevented by the law of laws. Unless the proposal is that criminal courts may regulate parental power, if there is no unconstitutionality, the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is clear. It's the usual one! with regard to criminal law, at a time when domestic violence is so much discussed, and well, at a time when justice is scrutinized, it is essential to convey, seriously, the following points: the current constitutional, conventional and legal framework does not under any circumstances allow considering contrary to the secularity of the State and to gender equality; the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not open any exceptions to its commitment to the refusal of criminal populisms animated by the understandable revolt of the population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that increasing penalties greatly does not diminish crime at all, and we know that who has managed to increase the rates of imprisonment—in accordance with the strange criminal logic—without any effect of general prevention. Just look, for example, at the United States of America. The 2015 legislative reform, made with the dedication of all parties, approved unanimously, was and is a good reform. in this context, only exceptional circumstances can justify new modifications of the law. in these circumstances, the verification of a situation of non-compliance with international obligations is certainly included. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party will present tomorrow a bill that makes the absence of consent a typical element of the crime of rape and sexual coercion, being violence an aggravating circumstance and allowing the application of measures to prohibit and impose acts provided for in Article 200. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure not only to the crime of persecution but also to the crimes of threat and coercion. We insist that the main problem that afflicts women is not in the law, but this must be improved whenever it is justified. That is what we have done, as always, without running away from the state of law that any passion should cause us to hesitate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u78	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u79	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Moreira, this is an unacceptable crime that has to start fighting from the educational system throughout life and in society as a whole. It is a cultural problem that we must be able to collectively block society. I am proud to have been the Minister of Justice at the time when this crime became a public crime, but experience has also taught us that it is not enough to change the legal types, not so little of the system of repression, so that we can have greater effectiveness in the fight against and the elimination of this scourge. Something we have today is certainly more true, more knowledge, less ignorance, less abated from reality than it has been hidden for many years. Today, fortunately, it is more public and that is why it is important this first time that the Portuguese State declares national mourning for all the victims of domestic violence and, in particular, gender-based violence. It is a symbolic act, but it is with the symbolic acts that we begin to act and, above all, give a very clear answer to the whole society, saying: "No, we do not tolerate! This is a message of confidence in which, from this Assembly of the Republic to the President of the Republic, to the Government, to the judiciary, to the security forces, there is no indifference or ignorance about this reality and it gives confidence that black figures will be diminished and we will learn more about the real figures of this reality. Unfortunately, this reality is not a reality of the past, nor of ancient generations. What we know today about dating violence demonstrates as well as how these social paradigms will reproduce generation-wide and continue to exist even among the younger ones. That is why it is very important that we act and act in different ways: continuing to strengthen the victim support network, to strengthen the training of judges—only last year, the ECJ (Centro de Estudios Judiciarios) formed more than 400 judges—to strengthen training in security forces, but also better articulating the information and response of each entity, so that information is not lost and we can have better results. That is why we have to work, and that is why, fortunately, there is a huge parliamentary consensus for us to move forward. On the other hand, if we read the resolution of the Council of Ministers, which was adopted today in general, the Government did not intend to study the establishment of any special tribunal. The Government simply proposed to study, in addition, the recommendation of the Council of Europe, ways to take account of the specialization in the evaluation of this type of crime, in particular through joint jurisdiction courts, so that there can be a better understanding of this reality. It is that this reality is not merely a criminal reality, it is also a familiar reality, where the knowledge of the different valences, of the different realities of life, of the different understandings and of the different branches of law will certainly help to improve the effectiveness of the treatment of this phenomenon and its criminal repression. That is what we should study. First, because, before the numbers we have, we do not have the right not to study, even what we think may not have produced and, secondly, because, before the recommendations of the Council of Europe, we must also have the humility to hear, think and reflect, to see what is appropriate or not appropriate to our Constitution. And, above all, we must avoid something that has passed all these years on 25 April: the hateful Court of the Whole and the establishment of courts to judge political prisoners with what is the specialized competence that allows for better enforcement of justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u80	To put questions to the Government by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, still on gender-based violence, today, National Day of Combating Domestic Violence, decreed by the Government, means a political commitment at the highest level and a collective appeal to combat domestic violence, change mentalities and declare zero tolerance to impunity. We are facing a domestic terrorism of gender, as has already been shown, which killed 503 women in the last 15 years, left 1,000 children and young orphans. On average, 33 women died per year in the last 15 years. The murder of 13 women last yesterday, and a child this year, made all the warnings to collectively outrage this grave scourge. We must urgently put an end to the social devaluation of this violent crime. Portugal was a pioneer in signing and ratifying the Istanbul Convention, but this fight calls upon all of us, as a collective, to act courageously, with determination and intransigence, so that there will be no more women murdered and unpunished aggressors. In Portugal, there is a broad political consensus, which is cross-cutting to all governments, which has allowed to build a demanding legislative framework for preventing and combating gender-based violence. The Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence is in place, within the framework of the national strategy Portugal + Equal. Currently, there are instruments resulting from international recommendations, from the Council of Europe, such as those from GREVIO (Group of Experts on Action Against Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence), and from national recommendations, such as those from the Retrospective Analysis Team on Domestic Violence, which indicate to us the ways, which did not exist and where to follow. Today, women have more courage to denounce and begin to lose the fear and shame that led them to silence these aggressions, but many of these appeals are devalued. We have a network and a system of structured protection and territorialized support throughout the country, we have training for strategic public, we have a new law of 2017, to protect children in situations of domestic violence among their parents who, duly applied, strengthen communication between the criminal and family courts, we have an education program for generalized citizenship, this school year, to all schools, but according to GREVIO, although Portugal has taken significant steps against domestic violence, there is still much work to be done. In particular, there is a very excusing judicial culture of this kind of aggression; there is a strong feeling of impunity for this type of crime; there is a double victim suffered by women and children when they are forced to flee their homes and to take refuge in shelter; there are low rates of condemnation—85 % of complaints do not result in accusations. We speak today, and GREVIO says so, of false complaints, but this group also says that false complaints are few. That's a false question and the numbers are there to prove it. Mr. Prime Minister, you have put this political impulse strong to make this fight at the highest level. The question I want to leave to you is: in respect of the principle of the separation of powers, what else can be done, in addition to all that has been done, to reduce the impunity of the aggressors? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u82	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u83	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, very soon after this session, I shall have the opportunity, together with the Minister of the Presidency, the Minister of Justice, the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration and other members of the Government, to meet with the Attorney-General of the Republic, the national commanders and directors of the security forces and services, with the head of the commission for retrospective analysis of the crime and with the elements of the technical committee established last week for the development and analysis of this situation. We will precisely try to identify the practical issues that we can resolve to, regardless of what is already in the law, prevent the whole of these facts from being duly valued throughout the process until the conviction phase. Obviously, we must respect the principle of the separation of powers at the stage of judgment, but we cannot allow that at the stage of denunciation, at the stage of investigation, at the stage of investigation, these data are not properly considered. And this often happens, as it has been detected by the committee that has done retrospective analysis, by the way the evidence is collected, treated and preserved throughout the process. What, in fact, is often simple to understand, by the following: one thing is the emotion with which each of us lays down, another thing is the coldness with which this statement is naturally written; one thing is the way we hear the testimony live, another thing, completely different, is like we read a statement that has been written; one thing is what the witness says or the complainant says, the hot, at the moment she is feeling the pain, in which she had the courage to break and go to the authorities and ask for help and another is perhaps what she will say, months later, who knows even in a familiar context already different, to the authorities when she is heard, at a later stage of the process. Whoever has advocated, who has participated in any trial, knows well how the same testimony, hearing or reading, said today or said from here to one year, can have a completely different value for those who have not heard the first, for those who have not heard the live voice and are just reading. Therefore, we must resolve all these practical problems in order to ensure that what is the authenticity of the complaint can be effectively valued, not only by the official of the authority who is collecting the first testimony but always and even the last judge who intervenes to make the last judicial decision that is to be passed on trial. This is absolutely essential. On the other hand, there are measures that we must take by caution, because, in doubt, it is better to protect than to let happen. And this requires proactiveness by the security forces in relation to the complaints that are presented to them, demands from society as a whole greater mobilization, because, often, the victim himself, as we know, can endure years to the day when he finally has the courage or need, or in which, finally, he is released and can tell what he has often hidden out of shame, which is the worst form of his own victimization. But there is another social network: there are schools that contact families, there are health centers, hospitals, emergencies, neighbors, local trade, family. There are all those who pretend not to see, still very contaminated by this left-wing idea that "between men and women do not get caught", and that they do not fulfill their civic duty that is to denounce, in time and time, to protect, in time and time, to prevent what they then often regret because they have not warned, in time and time. This is what I think is essential for us to do, realizing that, today, there are more known numbers, it matters little if there is greater awareness, therefore, greater disclosure, or if tragically, there is an increase in domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u84	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u85	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Maybe it's both. There are several indicators that confirm, for example, that the context of divorce and, in particular, that of parental power regulation have been, in recent years, increasingly, a factor of increase in domestic violence. Even very recently, we heard a tragic story of how a child and a grandmother were murdered in a context of dispute for the regulation of fatherly power. Therefore, we must also reflect not only on the criminal dimension but also on the form of family law and how we are acting in this context of regulation. It is therefore this exercise that is necessary to be done, without having any complex of questioning what we have acquired and as certain, because the numbers do not allow us to retain our confidence in the community and require us to put ourselves in doubt to find better answers. Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, and thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u86	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are in fact faced with a very serious problem that requires structural changes in our country. In less than 10 weeks this year, 13 women and one girl have been murdered. As you know, the Left Block has raised the question of how we can treat domestic violence and how family courts do not take it into account so many times in decisions they make and how this ends up doing double victimization of both women and children. As you also know, we have tried to raise the debate in this form of jurisdiction here in Parliament, and we have been severely criticized for this. Well, we're used to it, when you want to break up, there's always a strong conservatism that makes it hard. I must tell you that we are not interested in the authorship of the proposal, but we agree with the government's proposal to study today to create specialized ways of dealing with domestic violence, and I personally endorse everything you have just said on this matter. When we have convergences, let's point them out, with pleasure. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I would also like to tell you that, to justice, we have, of course, brought together the question of prevention — it is very important. And I could not fail to mention that the Left Block is associated with the international feminist strike of 8 March, in which it means fighting with courage, courage to fight violence and fight for all equality, which is still late, between men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u89	Mr Prime Minister, however, would like to speak in this debate about the New Bank. In this respect, I confess that we have heard, with some surprise, the idea of the committee of inquiry. As you know, there was an inquiry into BES and it had results. The Commission's report, which was also approved by the Socialist Party, concluded by the harmful and criminal management, which is currently under way in the courts, and also concluded by the enormous responsibilities of the regulator, although the Government has, contrary to the repeated proposal of the Block, decided to keep Carlos Costa in front of the Banco de Portugal. We have heard him now in response to the PSD, that he was curious about some of the facts. So I ask you, what is the curiosity of the government, the Prime Minister? Which committee of inquiry would this be? With what scope? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u90	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u91	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Prime Minister cannot have many states of soul, nor can he reveal all the doubts which overwhelm him. Above all, it must seek to respect the institutions as they are. With regard to the management of BES, the Minister for Finance ordered an audit, as it should be done and can be done. The question which I was asked yesterday was a question which was raised by the President of the Republic, with total legitimacy, and which has to do with the resolution process and the management of the bank after the resolution. This management was no longer managed by private entities, it was done by Banco de Portugal. The curiosity of Mr. President of the Republic is no greater than mine. Mr President of the Republic has a freedom of speech that the Prime Minister should not have and will not exercise. That I am curious, I have; that we cannot order an audit to Banco de Portugal, we cannot ; that we cannot order an audit to be conducted by Banco de Portugal to the New Bank, we cannot. However, what I had the opportunity to say was that there was no difference between the Government and the President of the Republic. It happens that we can do what we can do, but there are other entities, such as the Assembly of the Republic, who can do more, if they understand. Now, I must not tell the House of the Republic what it must do and what the scope of this investigation should be. Will the Banco de Portugal act? Is this Dr. Sérgio Monteiro's performance? Will the government act? One thing I can assure you: on the part of the government, we have nothing to hide, we are fully available to tell everything and to disclose everything that was our intervention. And I assume the others don't have one either. If the Assembly of the Republic understands that this is a mechanism, I believe that the President of the Republic will be satisfied, millions of Portuguese will be satisfied and I will personally like to finally know some things I do not know. I've heard a little while ago, I don't know whether the PCP bench or BE bench, a separate one, when I said I didn't know the internal audit that the Banco de Portugal had done to the resolution process. And it's true. The Government asked Banco de Portugal to send the audit and the Banco de Portugal did not show us the audit. Ask me if I'm curious. Of course I'm curious. I think we're all curious. Any Portuguese is curious! Now, as Prime Minister, I have to adhere to my skills and respect the skills of others, and I cannot do as much as I sometimes would like to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u92	Continues in the use of the word, Mrs Catarina Martins. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u93	Mr President, Prime Minister, that the Governor of the Banco de Portugal is all less clear, we already know. Therefore, how much, the Bloc is perplexed and wonders why he continues to be Governor of Banco de Portugal. That Sérgio Monteiro, who the Governor of Banco de Portugal has dealt with the delivery of the New Bank, did strange privatisation business, we already knew, with the sale of the CTTs or the insurance of the Box, and we also have no doubts about it. That the BES resolution was insufficient and was going to create problems, we also knew from the outset. In addition, as of 2014 the Left Block proposed the extension of the resolution to institutional creditors and elders, which was rejected by PSD and CDS. But what happened next came to prove that we were right. In 2014, the resolution took EUR 4 billion from the taxpayers, in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, at the time, even in the opposition, explained well that it was an illusion that the Resolution Fund was not the taxpayers'money, and I follow him on that. In 2015, these EUR 4 billion were no longer available and the Banco de Portugal proceeds to a new resolution, calling the former creditors. Now in 2017, when the Government decided to hand over the New Bank to Lone Star, a public guarantee is created—which the Government gave the name of « contingent capitalisation mechanism », but which for the proper purposes works as a guarantee—of many more than EUR 4 billion, or almost precisely because the resolution had been insufficient. Moreover, in the European Commission decision of 2017 on the New Bank, there is a warning for the misassessment of the credits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u94	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u95	Therefore, that problem existed, we already knew, and also that this evaluation of the European Commission was made not only on the resolution but also on the management period of the New Bank in the Resolution Fund. I mean, none of this is new, it's all known. We are surprised that it is now, when Lone Star activates the rights that the government has given it, that there seems to be a widespread terror and the government says it doesn't know everything. My question is, what has the government found out in the meantime? What does Mr. Prime Minister know now that he didn't know in 2017 when he handed over the New Bank to Lone Star? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u96	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u97	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, what the Government knew at the time was what the resolution authority, which was the Banco de Portugal, informed the Government and informed the market, and what we know today is that the contingent capital needs are greater than what had been reported would be the needs. It also led the Government by not accepting a guarantee and setting a ceiling for either quota capital or for the annual effort that would be requested from the Settlement Fund for the quota capital. As, moreover, it was even better when, instead of wanting to stay with the bank, nationalising it or buying it, it promoted and supported the Banco de Portugal in the decision to move away, because, if we had stayed with the bank in the State, the capital would not be contingent and all the capital needed would have to be assured by the State, or then we would have to liquidate the bank, with damage to the depositors, to the jobs and to the entire economy to which the bank provides an important service, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we accepted this mechanism and what we did was to say to Banco de Portugal: « No, guarantee we do not accept! We accept this quota capital mechanism, limited in time, limited in amount, limited in annual effort". As a loan to the Resolution Fund, contingent capital which we are forwarding and which banks over 30 years will have to pay in order to recover this money from the taxpayers. And we said that during this period there had to be restrictions, particularly for the private that you acquired and that, of course, you cannot be entitled to the distribution of bank profits. This was the mechanism we found to limit the damage in the resolution framework of a bank, where the alternatives were liquidation, nationalisation or sale. This, after there had already been a failed sale, of no one else interested and of the only interested who would have had many cautions, because he had many doubts as to what the bank's actual situation was. Unfortunately, reality has shown that, surely, these fears were founded. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u98	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u99	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, what you are saying is that you were actually surprised at the assessment of assets and the size of the contingencies to which the State is obliged to respond. Now, I am sure that Mr. Prime Minister will never tell me, on the contrary, about Mrs. Assumption Cristas, who signed a fundamental decision on the financial system and taxpayers' money on the beach. And we know that the detailed description of what was in the New Bank and the consequences of its delivery to Lone Star, as well as the detailed description of the contract that was made were certainly the knowledge of the Ministry of Finance and the Banco de Portugal. So if Mr. Prime Minister was surprised by some of the things, who deceived him? The Ministry of Finance or the Banco de Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u100	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u101	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first, no one has hidden anything! The Banco de Portugal necessarily knew the contract, since it was the Banco de Portugal that negotiated it and signed it. The Government was not unaware of the contract because the Banco de Portugal has always made all information available to the Government on the contract. What I said recently was about the internal audit carried out at the Banco de Portugal on management during the framework of the resolution. Therefore, we knew the contract, which we did not know, was indeed the whole of the bank's capital contingencies. That is why we never accepted a guarantee and that is also why we never wanted to keep the bank. What we accepted was to limit the quota capital in time and amount,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u102	And it's limited!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u103	... with the requirement that it would never be a substantial loss but rather a repayable loan with interest. It was because we had this caution that we can say that the money we are putting there today will be recovered, and with interest, by the taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u104	There by 2050!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u105	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let us call it 'guarantee', let us call it 'quota capitalisation mechanism', 'Maria Albertina'!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u107	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u108	It is EUR 3900 million that banks can go for and, if they pay or not, they will soon be paid from within 30 years. Until you see, don't pay! Until you see it's always the taxpayers putting the money there and so it doesn't change anything. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister explained this very much—and so well! — when Maria Luís Albuquerque created the Resolution Fund. And I subscribe to your words of 2014 on this matter. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Antonio Costa Silva and Maria Luís Albuquerque.]] More: when this « Maria Albertina » of EUR 4000 million was given to Lone Star, in fact, it was also told the European Commission that if everything went wrong and needed capitalization, the State would enter with more, whether it was an increase in capital that Lone Star decided to make, or whether Lone Star could not make an increase in capital and that would be necessary, in the face of a serious problem. That is what the European Commission is considering and it was the letter of confrontation. We do not know how many billions of euros is that it will still cost us, but we do know, because Mr. Prime Minister here tells us, that we have already known the contract and no one has deceived anyone. So I ask myself, what has changed? Why is it that everyone is now amazed, when Lone Star does it is to activate the rights given to it? Oh, my God! I wonder if you have changed the proximity of the elections? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u109	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u110	It is now that those who have always defended the delivery of the New Bank to private – PS, PSD and CDS – are all amazed at the bill they already knew they would pay! [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u111	And, let's be clear, there have always been two possibilities on the table: nationalization or delivery to privates, both at cost. Repeat, they were always both possibilities on the table, but PSD, PS and CDS, over time, were pretending that the sale would have no cost to the taxpayers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u112	Us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u113	...to escape the debate of nationalization and, in fact, not to change anything in the rules of the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u114	The sale is in your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u115	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President. And we keep doing the same! There's no money for anything but the bank, which keeps doing whatever it wants with money that's not yours. The speech of the 'well-advised' is always regrettable, but it is true: we have warned, sometimes without notice, that this would happen! Finally, Mr President, remembering that, two years ago, in a two-year debate, I said to Mr Prime Minister : « (...) everything indicates that this sale will be like that of BPN to BIC (...) we will lose twice money with the same bank. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u117	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u118	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. on this occasion, I added: Lone Star « (...) will liquidate everything you can in the smallest time space(...) ». He believes he prefers not to be right, but the reality is that the government has put a tournament of billions of euros of taxpayers in the New Bank and it is Lone Star that has the power to open this tap whenever you want. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u119	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u120	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, this is not just a matter of name! If it were a guarantee, we would respond to everything needed in an unlimited way, as if it had been nationalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u121	That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u122	If there had been nationalization, the state would have had to inject itself into the bank, only in capital, almost EUR 5000 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u123	That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u124	... and more EUR 4900 million to buy the participation of the Resolution Fund. We were already at EUR 9900 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u125	That's what you're doing! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u126	If you don't mind me now, give me a little attention. When you say that you don't know how much more millions are going to cost, there's one thing you know: it won't cost more than EUR 3890 million, because that was the fixed ceiling. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u127	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u128	I shall now conclude, Mr President. More: when I say 'cost' I mean cost temporarily, because it is a loan rather than a lost investment. When the honourable Member says she does not know whether the banks will pay or when they will, the answer is: they will pay within the time limit and they have been paying.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u129	They paid interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u130	Only interest, they have already paid EUR 440 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u131	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u132	Mr President, I will now conclude. I repeat: they have already paid EUR 440 million of interest to this loan, which is why it is a mechanism. Just one last sentence, if Mr. President will allow me.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u133	It depends on the paragraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u134	Madam Member, the risk of the 'hole' for the State has existed since the day of the resolution. What we have been discussing since then is how to limit the damage. And what I'm telling you is that the way we have it is the most balanced way to limit the damage to taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u135	In order to ask questions by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u136	Mr President, if I may, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u137	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u138	Mr President, I had already signalled to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document, which is planned as a matter of course before the floor is delivered to any Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u139	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u140	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau, in order to request the distribution of a document that I identify as a « European Commission document », where the Portuguese Government commits itself to a final backstop, i.e. to put all the money needed, if Lone Star does not want to give money to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u141	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u142	It will be distributed, Mr Deputies, but the intervention time of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has already ended. Mrs. Christian Assumption, then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u143	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, today we celebrate a day of national mourning—and well! — the victims of domestic violence and the broad consensus on this issue, but more than proclamations, we need action. The CDS has, for more than a year in this Parliament, a relevant set of proposals in the area of justice, some of which may have a direct impact on domestic violence, particularly when it comes to reviewing the criminal framework, which is visibly inadequate in relation to a number of crimes. Although all parties have recognized the relevance of the theme "justice", the truth is that, so far, none of them have contributed. Therefore, I challenge the Government and the Socialist Party, too, to present their projects, their proposals, so that we can work together, looking in particular at our proposals, which have been here for more than a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u145	It's always time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u146	Mr Prime Minister, before going to other questions, I would like to mention something that has somehow left us perplexed. The Prime Minister is engaged in proclamations about Europe and even says that the Socialist Party is Europe. It happens that in your Socialist European family today there are several parties, whose leaders, like you, govern their respective countries, and on which there are very serious suspicions and doubts, especially in cases of corruption. I am talking specifically about Malta or Romania, where there are high-level accusations, particularly about the use of Community funds, which, even in the case of Malta, involve serious suspicions of the murder of a journalist. On this issue, we do not know any public position of the Prime Minister, leader of the Socialist Party, who unfolds in Europe to show his revenue of good governance on the left. I'd like to know if Mr. Prime Minister, leader of the Socialist Party, will maintain this convivent silence. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u147	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u148	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I believe that the Member will be here as a Member and also as leader of the CDS-PP, but I am only here as Prime Minister and therefore will not answer you as leader of the Socialist Party. Once I've had the opportunity to tell you that whenever you want to talk to the leader of the Socialist Party, I'll have the greatest pleasure in receiving her in the Long Mouse, at the national headquarters of the PS, and we'll talk about these circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u149	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u150	Mr President, Prime Minister, registers the absolute disinterest in this issue, which should—yes! — to interest the Prime Minister of Portugal, who is also a socialist and sits with his socialist colleagues, also Prime Ministers, in the European Council of Ministers,... [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] ... that makes talks and conversations about how to rule on the left, which even welcomes them in Lisbon, at a congress of the European Socialist Party, but has no word to denounce these cases of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u152	It is very bad, I think it is very serious, but it also shows the interest of the Socialist Party on these issues. Let's move on to something else. Mr Prime Minister referred to the New Bank as a bad or bad bank. We doubted whether it was bad or bad, but we have no doubt about the slightness of your statement, which, moreover, has repeated again today in this House. My question is whether, in fact, it will not review this qualification, because it is serious for a bank that is currently operating on the market. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u153	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u154	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, you have never heard me speak, as Prime Minister, about any other European Government, whether that of Malta, or that of Slovakia, or that of Hungary, because as Prime Minister, I must not do so. However, in other qualities, I have already done so on any of these governments and on any of these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u155	We never heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u156	On the other hand — and I am not a bank rating agency — I am limited to finding that the bank that said it was good has shown capital needs and has already lost EUR 4 billion in these years alone. Now, why? Oh, my God! There is one thing we know to believe in the reports that have been submitted by the administration: it does not result from the management of the current administration, therefore it certainly results in the way the separation between 'good' and 'bad' was made at the time of the resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u157	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u158	Mr President, Prime Minister, as leader of the Socialist Party we have not heard anything about the governments of Malta or Romania, therefore challenges him to take a public position on this point. With regard to the New Bank, I think that Mr. Prime Minister has much more duties than any rating agency, which has no duty to defend the national interest. I find the statements you made yesterday serious, the statements you made today and, in addition to that, are extremely disconcerting, unless there is something new, and here I agree with Mrs Catarina Martins. It is because when Mr Prime Minister knew and approved the sale of the New Bank, it was already known, I repeat, that there was a contingent liability through these loans up to EUR 3, EUR 9 billion. Everyone knew that! Moreover, I do not know how the Left Block is so outraged because it approves the State budgets, where the amounts that are to be entered into the same Resolution Fund are planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u159	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u160	So, there's no news about this. My question is whether there is any more imponderable knowledge that can lead beyond this limit of EUR 3, EUR 9 billion. That is the relevant question, in the light of the mechanism that your Government has accepted. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u161	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u162	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, I know that the theme of the New Bank is a subject that is often addressed by SMS outside the beach and surely so... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it has not yet been realised that the resolution decided in 2014 placed the bank under the management of the resolution entity, which is the Banco de Portugal. The Banco de Portugal secured the sale negotiation process failed in 2015 and achieved in 2017. to the Government, as a representative of the State, what was requested was a loan to the Resolution Fund so that it could ensure the contingent capital that the buyer required as a safeguard for the risk of the bank's accounts effectively showed more capital needs than what they showed. What the Government refused the Banco de Portugal was that this mechanism was guaranteed. The honourable Member is a doctor in law, so I apologize for developing the difference. What we accepted was simply granting a loan for a mechanism that has a limited deadline, which has a limited maximum amount and which banks have to return to taxpayers with interest over the next 30 years. This is what we accepted and nothing else! I repeat, it was this, and nothing else, that we accepted! As for the judgment I make, it is the result of the own capital needs that the administration and its shareholders have been saying that the bank has, not because of its management, but because of the inheritance they have found in the bank. Perhaps so you better understand why in 2015 no buyers appeared, why in 2017 only one appeared, and with so many cautions, and perhaps you better understand why it was prudent on the part of the government not to have agreed to nationalize the bank, to stay with the bank, and also not to have subjected neither the depositors, nor the workers, nor the bank customers to the risk of their liquidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u163	The word continues to be from Mrs. Christian Assumption. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u164	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have to tell you that what you just explained to us does not exactly correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u165	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u166	If you look at point ( 146 ) of the European Commission's decision, it is very clearly stated there that the bank, or the state, better by saying, has a unlimited responsibility, I repeat without limits if it is necessary to guarantee the bank's solvency in an adverse scenario of the European Commission, i.e. EUR 3, EUR 9 billion of loan, as it was immediately settled. I remember at the time Mr Prime Minister and Mr Finance Minister said 'we are not going to get there'. by the way, let's get there, because we're getting to the right pace, in fact, the incentives were all to get there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u168	Secondly, there are other types of measures that can amount to up to EUR 4, EUR 2 billion. But more is said: there is no limit, if it is necessary to ensure the ratios in a more adverse scenario. So, Prime Minister, I regret to deny you, but what you've been telling us all afternoon is not true. The Government and the State are, yes, responsible if, at some point, they realize that the ratios are not being met. My question is this: do you have any information that allows you to say that these ratios will not be met? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u169	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I want Mr Finance Minister we have repeatedly said in recent days — and Mr Finance Minister may, in fact, deepen it for a long time in the ensuing parliamentary hearing — the Government does not have any information to require, directly or indirectly, from the State, any other intervention beyond the one it has forced, which was to finance, up to the limit of EUR 3890 million, the Resolution Fund, which is another public entity, with the repayment of interest on the part of the banks, of the money it is lent by the State to the Resolution Fund. I hope this time has been absolutely clear about what we have said and repeated over the last few days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u171	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u172	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was very clear, but this simply does not correspond to the truth. For this reason the CDS was against this business in 2017 and asks the Government to look very closely at the point ( 146 ) of the European Commission decision, where it is very clear that we can stand before a bottomless well. Mr Prime Minister has mentioned here several times the hypothesis of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Mr. Prime Minister is leader of the Socialist Party, he is Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, certainly gives good indications to his bank leader. Will the Socialist Party propose a parliamentary committee of inquiry or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u173	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u174	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, I already knew that I hated myself as Prime Minister, but I am now moved to know that you will worship me as leader of the Socialist Party. It's an improvement now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u175	Only in opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u176	I don't know what the rules are in your party, but I know what they are in mine, and in mine they're very simple: the Prime Minister runs the government, the head of the PS board runs the PS bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u177	As all government members and parliamentary groups must know, there can be no more than two parliamentary committees of inquiry in office at the same time. We are already with three parliamentary committees of inquiry by full consensus and, therefore, until we finish one, there will certainly not be a fourth. Mrs Assunción Cristas, please continue, since your bench still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. I suggested that you inform Mr. Prime Minister, because he thus excused making such a sad figure by proposing something that is not even possible. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u179	Mr Prime Minister, we would have much more to talk about these points, but there is an incontrovertible issue that I cannot stop bringing to this debate today, which is the issue of health, because again we continue with resignations in the field of health. It was still the case yesterday at the Leiria Hospital Center and was once again said and explained that there was resignation due to lack of means and investments. Mr. Prime Minister, when are you going to assume the absolute failure of your government in the area of health? Oh, my God! But, as I understand that the Prime Minister is absolutely lost at this point, the CDS has been concerned, moreover, in other areas, that banking supervision is an example — fortunately, in this area, the Government now has proposals, which is great, and if you want to bring them back to the week, when we have our legislative agenda, will be very welcome — to bring many leading proposals as to the autonomy of hospitals, to the new model of funding to ensure better results, and not only in production numbers, which Mr Prime Minister so much likes to mention. However, Mr Prime Minister, I am going to challenge you one more challenge: why is it that Mr Prime Minister does not take the CRIs (integrated responsibility centres) which have such good results? Oh, my God! And the first one — see! — 1988, by Prof. Manuel Antunes, at the time in Coimbra. Why don't you take this model and we can't have better health results?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u180	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u181	It's just that everything you've done in this domain has failed repeatedly! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u182	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u183	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, in the specific case of Leiria, yesterday the Minister of Health met with Mr President of the House to discuss the problems that exist in the hospital, a hospital where a great investment effort has been made, of more than EUR 11 million in the last three years. As I have repeatedly told you, in fact, we have received a National Health Service requiring a great recovery effort and that is why we have managed to hire 9000 new professionals for the National Health Service, among doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and other professionals. Thanks to that, fortunately, production has increased. Mrs Deputy does not like to hear about production, but production is what allows us to know if we are giving more consultations or less consultations, doing more surgeries or less surgeries. What the honourable Member really does not like is that the answer to each of these questions is, indeed, that we have more consultations today in health centers than in 2015, more consultations in hospitals than in 2015, more surgeries in hospitals than in 2015, i.e. the National Health Service is caring for and treating more people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u184	But it's all worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u185	We are doing this with 25 % less moderate rates; we are doing this with a better working time for nurses, who recovered the 35 hours that had been withdrawn from them, in fact, we even extended the 35 hours to nurses who, having been hired with individual employment contracts, had never had this time,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] ... and to whom we have rejected the specialty allowance, which had also been withdrawn, in the same way that we have rejected salaries, in the same way that they were able to benefit from the reduction of overtax, in the same way that we are investing in the creation of new USF(family health units), to reach the goal that we have set ourselves, from 100 new USF until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u186	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u187	I shall now conclude, Mr President. last year, we reduced the delay in payments in hospitals by 48 % and, as you know, we are planning this year for 11 hospitals a new management model.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u188	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u189	It is a more autonomous, more accountable model that enables us to be more efficient, and whose development we follow with great attention and much expectation that it can contribute to a more agile management of our National Health Service, so that we continue to improve the quality of Portuguese health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group, so you have the floor to ask questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u191	Mr President, Prime Minister, I apologize for insisting, but the New Bank has made a further loss of EUR 1400 million and announced that it will once again turn to the Resolution Fund to ask for more than EUR 1100 million, over EUR 4000 million spent by the Portuguese State in the resolution of the BES and the EUR 2000 million requested by the New Bank, already after its sale to Lone Star. But this is also the result, once again, of the European Commission's taxes, which PS, PSD and CDS have accepted, from the Resolution of BES to the sale of the New Bank to Lone Star. This is the result of a management made in accordance with the interests of Lone Star. At the time of the presentation of the results in 2017, the CFP alerted to the risks of its sale, compromising public resources—and now, here, the charges of the Box should always be considered, which are of course public resources—to ensure the viability of a bank held by a transnational economic group. The question I want to ask you is whether it is not time to stop this process and integrate the Bank into the public sphere, as the CFP had already proposed at the BES Resolution and again in April 2017. For us, there is a clear question: if the State pays the Bank, the State must manage the Bank at the service of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u193	Moratorium of 30 years, Prime Minister? Possibly at the time, no one will remember that anymore. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u194	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u195	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the moment that BES was managed in the way it was, from the time that the State decided to proceed to its resolution in 2014, from there we had only risks, any path was risky. The question raised in 2017 was how to reduce the risks to the State and to taxpayers. First hypothesis: if the sale was to fail again, the Bank would have to be liquidated. The Bank's liquidation called into question a large part of the depositors, the workers' jobs, the relations that the Bank had with our business fabric and, in particular, with small and medium-sized enterprises, and also caused great damage to the stability of our financial system. It would be an excessive risk. Second hypothesis: nationalization. The hypothesis of nationalisation would mean that the State would take all the risk of capital needs, not only those we are meeting through loan, but all those that would have to be satisfied and that at the moment would certainly be close to EUR 9 billion. Now, we'd be talking in the background of more than EUR 9900 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u196	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u197	...that we would not recover and receive no interest, and keep a bank in hand with this huge burden of trouble. It was an excessive risk that we shouldn't run. [[Protests by the MP of PCP Paulo Sá and the MP of BE Mariana Mortágua.]] Yes, we should concentrate our efforts to do what we have done, which was the full capitalisation of the General Deposit Box to ensure it as a public bank, as it has always been. That's what we did. And there is no moratorium on banks, 30 years for repayment of the loan in 30 annual benefits. It's not a moratorium, they won't be 30 years waiting to pay. Every year they will have to pay with their contributions and these contributions must come to the State to recover the loan we made and to get taxpayers to recover the money that was lent by the State. This is what happens, there is no moratorium and the risk is less than any other alternative solution. That's why, because we're talking about risks, because we're talking about the risk reduction, which you've never heard me say the solution was good or bad. The expression I used was « balanced solution », because it was the one that, in the context of the resolution initiated in 2014, better protected bank workers, bank customers, bank depositors, the stability of our financial system. If we notice the evolution of the interest rate, which we all paid, which the Republic pays for public debt, we must verify how this alienation from the Bank was absolutely decisive for the recovery of our rating and for the sustained reduction of the interest rate, which at the time was above 4 % and which today is around 1, 3 %. This means releasing many billions of euros from our debt service in order to be able to invest where necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u198	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am not exactly an artist in economics, but there is one thing I understand: in the middle of this, all that will be saved is the transnational, Lone Star, which always has the future guaranteed. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in the 15th October debate, we have brought here six months the problem of the enormous lack of human resources that are present in social security and the unacceptable waiting times and delays to the various demands of workers, including requests for pensions. He told us, then, that this would be solved. Today he repeated the promise. At the time, we found that there were workers and their families who waited 10, 11 and up to 12 months to obtain a response to a request for reform, a request for death or supplement of dependence and also months to obtain a response to a simple requirement and even for a simple service. Today, six months ago, the situation remains. at that time, measures were announced, but, as we said, they would not solve the problem and reality is in sight. At the time, 1500 workers were missing in social security, such was the situation that led us to the policy of disinvestment of successive governments. What is planned and announced — the recruitment of 200 workers, of the 70 to the National Pension Fund, which lost 240 workers between 2010 and 2016 — is a drop of water in the ocean. Mr Prime Minister, when can the Portuguese be satisfied with their requests within a reasonable period of time — not more than three months provided for in the Law? Are you considering other measures? Mr. Prime Minister will tell me that, in the meantime, they will be resuscitated with retroactives. And yet people live for what? Do you live from the air, Prime Minister? This is a very serious question on which we would like to hear your opinion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u200	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a very serious matter, it is about those most people who put us directly on the street, as long as they are waiting, because people don't live as retroactives, they live from the money they receive every month to meet their needs. The contest for the 200 new employees is ongoing and, as you know, it takes time. I have already mentioned several of the measures that have been taken, some of the simplification of lines that have taken care of, but also of strengthening the number of people by means of temporary contracts, through internal mobility, through the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the precarious links in the Public Administration ). I'm going to say a number, I know it's risky, but that's what was provided to me by the Ministry of Labour, and therefore we have a shared risk. By answering your question about when we will have the reasonable 90-day deadline, the information I have is that, at the end of the first semester of this year, 2019, we will be able to recover for 90-day response time to these requests for reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u202	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u203	So, Prime Minister, that's how you get along and let's see if that happens then! Mr. Prime Minister, I did not want to make it clear, in this debate, a remarkable event and, for us, very relevant to what it represents in the lives of the populations of the metropolitan areas and what it means for the CFP to achieve an objective for which, for years, it has fought practically alone. This is about valuing and expanding the intermodal pass, a measure of positive social impact that has become a reality with the contribution and intervention of the CFP, which is very proud of us and will result in a significant reduction in costs with the use of public transport to hundreds of thousands of users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u205	Maximum €40 for the pass valid throughout the metropolitan area and €30 for the pass valid in each municipality, pass for students and, in the future, pass familiar, free use for children up to 12 years and pass for people over 65 years of age, beyond the additional bonus, constitute a huge advance in the living conditions of families and in stimulating the use of public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u207	A measure that also crowns the struggle of these users of public transport services for years. It is necessary, Mr Prime Minister, and I would like you to register, to move ahead more decisively with the increase in rail, river and road supply, strengthening investment, and realising the enlargement to the entire country of tariff reduction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u208	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u209	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, the measure is for the whole country, for all inter-municipal communities and for both metropolitan areas. Of course, it has more impact where there are more transport and more transport users and less impact in areas where there are fewer transport and fewer users. That is why the programme provides for two modalities: at least 60 % have to be used for the reduction and 40 % can be used for the extension of the network, because there are many areas in the country where the enlargement of the network is decisive. I give you two examples of the enormous impact this measure will have. A couple who live in Setúbal, come daily to Lisbon, and have a child with the pass sub23, today pay the amount of 443 € monthly for the three passes, but it will pay 80 €, which means a saving of 363 € per month for this family. The couple with a child, and this one with the pass sub23, if coming from Mafra, today pays 493 € monthly, but it will pay 80 €, which means a saving of 413 € monthly. This is one of the measures with greater impact on the increase in the available income of families, the result of the productive work between central administration, metropolitan areas, municipalities and CIM (intermunicipal communities), and will effectively allow a great improvement in the quality of life of all families. This is very positive and means that we must continue to extend the supply not only to the metropolitan areas, but above all to the rest of the country, so that more Portuguese can benefit, year by year, this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u210	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u211	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to respond ; in any case, I would like to say the following: in the last few weeks and in a framework of great offense against the National Health Service ( SNS ), some of the large private groups and healthcare providers have initiated a blackmail operation on ADSE, whose contours go far beyond the obligation to return the 38 million euros illegally invoiced. We are facing a blackmail operation of those who make Portuguese health a business and that is why they look at the National Health Service as a competitor who matters to devalue and reduce their activity, until their extinction, or use to transfer public money to accumulate in their profits. What I would like to ask is whether or not the Government is available for everything to be done — in particular, by strengthening the SNS or, even, by requesting the services of these groups, if necessary — to ensure care for the ADSE beneficiaries and not give in to blackmail of these groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u212	Mr. Prime Minister has no time to answer. The question remains. You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u213	Mr President, Prime Minister, according to the European Anti-Poverty Network, the year 2017 was marked by an improvement in indicators of poverty and social exclusion, with a decrease in the rate of risk of exclusion, the rate of risk of monetary poverty and severe material deprivation. however, the positive evolution of living conditions does not affect all groups in the same way. In our country, 24 % of women are at risk of poverty or social exclusion — more than 1, 3 million women, Prime Minister — 18 % are at risk of monetary poverty and 7 % are in severe material deprivation. Women remain in a situation of greater vulnerability, with higher values than the male population in all — all — indicators. Women are the largest proportion of people earning the minimum wage and the largest number of beneficiaries of social income for inclusion and solidarity for the elderly. Women are the face of poverty, and so they will continue if nothing is done. Mr. Prime Minister, tomorrow thousands of people will march throughout the country to mark Women's International Day for the end of inequalities and violence against all women. I ask you, Prime Minister: what have you done, and what are you doing, the government to ensure more equality and the removal of these people from the red line of poverty and social exclusion?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u214	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u215	Mr President, Mr André Silva, it is important that these manifestations exist and that people come to the streets and march, because this is a sign that we are not available to continue to tolerate either violence, gender inequality or wage inequality. We're not available and we can't accept it! That is why I myself, as a citizen, will also manifest myself on the street tomorrow, because I think it is essential that we all be on the street to prevent this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that it is essential to combat this inequality, because poverty reduction has also existed in women, but less than in the general population, and severe material deprivation has also been reduced in women, but less in the general population. The minimum wage has been increasing and women are the ones who benefit most from this increase due to the high prevalence of the minimum wage. But that is why it was absolutely essential that we have approved at the Assembly of the Republic, on the initiative of the Government, a bill that was published last month, which aims to create mechanisms to combat wage inequality, because this is absolutely essential to create better conditions so that there is eradication of poverty, but also greater equality in its eradication. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u216	Mr André Silva, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u217	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, in December 2016, the NAP submitted Bill No. 353 / XIII / 2. which, among other amendments, provided for the immediate communication of the indictment order for the domestic violence crime of the court where the trial is tried for the family court and minors, where the process of regulating parental responsibilities is found, since the chances of children and young people being also victims are very high. There was no parliamentary majority to accept this proposal. I wonder if, in view of the current joint venture, Mr. Prime Minister believes that the conditions for further implementation of this measure are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u218	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u219	Mr President, Member, this obligation is provided for in Law No 112 / 2009 and in the recent amendment, already in this Parliament, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 24 / 2017. This communication was expressly planned so that the family courts, when regulating the paternal power, have the necessary information by criminal courts. however, in the reflection that we have to make about the judicial linkage in the treatment of the issue of domestic violence, this is a central issue that needs to be considered and that will also be the subject of discussion at the meeting that I will have to follow to see how we can improve the mechanisms of interconnection in all institutions, i.e., we have reliable, consolidated and shared information by all, so that, in the intersection of lack of information, there are no decisions that tragically are not taken in time and time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-07.u220	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and other members of the Government and, of course, all Members of Parliament and all Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, 8 March, beginning at 10 a.m. at point one, we will have the current debate about International Women's Day. of point 2 is the joint discussion, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caretaker and drafts of Law Nos 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of Informational Caregivers and sets out measures to support caretakers and their caregivers ( Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons ), 1127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements and disciplines the Family Care regime, 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Status of the Informal Caregiver and 1135 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, strengthening the measures to support caregivers and dependents. In point three, the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4 is followed. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Labour Procedure Code by adapting it to the Civil Procedure Code. of point 4 is the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — authorises the Government to approve a legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying Portuguese flag and crossing high-risk areas of piracy. in point 5, we will generally appreciate Law Proposal No 177 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens the fight against tax evasion practices by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164. Finally, in point six, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our work today, I wish everyone a very good afternoon. The plenary meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
