ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Today's session has as its sole point the Interpellation to Government No. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — About the health situation in Portugal. There is a stage of openness, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone remembers how at the beginning of the year the former Minister of Socialist Health Correia de Campos warned of what all Portuguese already felt, and I quote: « The SNS (National Health Service), unfortunately, is very close to a serious crisis». The Government and the majority who have supported it over these years have stubbornly denied this reality. They said the SNS had never produced better results in its 40 years of existence, but then the elections came and everything changed. It was the epiphany! [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] The President of the Socialist Party, Carlos César, gave the motto with a strong reprimand to the Executive, saying, and I quote the following: « Either the Government resolves these issues with the reversal of this trend of degradation of the National Health Service or it will be complicated to justify itself to the Portuguese. This sense of urgency is understood because the state of degradation of the SNS is in such a dire way that it is impossible to disguise, at the point of the President of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, who has come to the ground to admit, and I quote: « I have every day reports of failures in the SNS. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u3	What about the rest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u4	You've got a tone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u5	It's funny how these complaints didn't reach you before the elections. Adding to this chorus of indignation came the Left Block, with Mrs Catarina Martins admitting, in an interview, and I quote, that «health is from the weakest sectors of government ». This after the Block, the PCP and the ENP have approved and enabled four budgets followed in this Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] This after four years of complicit action between PS, PCP, Block and ENP in the discharge of our health. If health is fragile, it is also because of your irresponsibility and blind ambition for power. [[PSD applause.]] Power only by power cannot exist. Power must exist only if it is to serve the people and you have violated this social contract with the Portuguese, leaving them increasingly to their own fate. The recent data, bearing in mind that the middle and low classes are the ones that hire new health insurance, are an eloquent example of this abandonment to which left-wings voted the most disadvantaged Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u7	Moreover, the government divides Portuguese into first- and second-generation citizens. This is the case with dentists, who continue to be available only for children attending public schools. Children who attend private education or social institutions are not entitled to the most elementary oral health responses. It's equality to the socialist map. It is a left that superimposes ideology to the interests of people, forgetting that they are always the people who suffer the most. Unfortunately, all our past warnings about the risks of the destructive path that the government is imposing on the SNS are being carried out at an alarming speed. Previously seen as a social equalizer, it was under socialist governance that the National Health Service became the most grueling mirror of the inequalities in our country. Those who have money solve their health problems, who do not simply endure, suffer or die. There are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u8	Demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u9	Furthermore, the latest OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) alerts that more than half of Portuguese people do not access the health care they need in a timely manner, even delaying these health care due to situations of financial disability. It is more than 50% of Portuguese, Mrs. Members, in contrast to an OECD average of 17 %. See what's going on with the waiting lists. The Minister of Health promised last March that all patients on the waiting list who had been waiting for more than one year for consultation or surgery would see their situation resolved by the end of 2019. One month is missing by the end of the year and the patients continue and will continue to wait. Another electoral promise the socialists will not fulfill, and the patients they endure. But the most serious thing is that they are not even worried about the government. Yesterday, in the 15th-year debate, Mr. Prime Minister announced, as if it were a good thing, that the patients of the Hospital Center of the Thames and Sousa have to wait 593 days for a cardiology consultation. That is, it's almost two years of waiting for a heart patient and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, enthusiasticly, beat palms as if it were something acceptable. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Worse: the Prime Minister's numbers were false. It's over 800 days of waiting! More than 800 days of waiting, I repeat, for patients with heart disease who have no other means. This is the reality! Who can, resolve by resorting to private, but those who have no such resources can do anything but endure, suffer or die. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A state that fails in front of the most vulnerable is a state that fails in front of the whole country. It is therefore absolutely unacceptable that we have a Prime Minister who considers this to be normal and that he does not have the humility of even recognizing that he has failed in health. Einstein already said that insanity is to continue to do the same thing and expect different results, but that's what this government is doing. Unable to recognize his mistakes, he is also unable to change his course. We must end this madness before it destroys the National Health Service at once. With the governance of the Socialist Party, we have had years of absence of strategy for health, combined with budget cuts through captivating, and an absolute inability to solve the real problems of citizens facing increasing difficulties in access to health. In the past, I warned that this government had let the devil in and that it had settled in the National Health Service, but you denied any difficulties, did nothing and changed nothing. They left the devil loose and now the National Health Service is transformed into an authentic hell. [[PS protests.]] Those who say so are health professionals who thus describe the country's emergency services, comparing them to war theatres. There are hospitals that can't scale for lack of staff, services provided by non-specialist professionals and administrations without any other solution but completely closing the doors to emergency services. A broken SNS! Today, in effective terms, we have less availability of professionals than we had in the time of the crisis. Not all contracts made so far have been sufficient to complete the 35-hour effect. There is an absolutely irresponsible management of the human capital of the SNS, but the government now blames health professionals for the lack of results, professionals who often work in miserable conditions and without which the SNS would have already collapsed. [[PSD applause.]] Physicians, nurses, pharmacists, health technicians and auxiliaries to work without recognition of guardianship, feeling that no one values whether they are doing right or wrong. This has to change! The worst thing is that the government does not know who the professionals work in the SNS, nor does it know what the needs are present and future. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Thus, there is no planning possible and the conversation about the exclusivity of doctors is no more than one curtain of smoke. The question they should ask is: why do the doctors that the government wants, by force, to force them to stay in the SNS, after all, want to leave? If you want to listen to professionals, the answer is simple. These highly qualified professionals do not have career prospects, are poorly paid, do not see any strategic vision for the SNS and the most serious of all is that they do not have minimum conditions to exercise their profession with dignity. It is not by chance that hundreds of people are multiplied by requests for refusal of responsibility from doctors. In practical terms, these doctors are telling the country that they do not stop working because this is their ethical obligation, but that the lack of means is so serious that the care provided is beyond the actual needs of the patients, and they are at risk. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u10	What a lack of conviction!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u11	This is the state of health in Portugal: unacceptable waiting times, with the number of patients on waiting lists constantly increasing; despite promises of universal coverage, more than 600,000 Portuguese have no family physician assigned; degradation of maternal-child health indicators; irrational investment in continuous care; almost absolute absence of palliative care responses; nor was a hospital equipment built in your years of governance. And despite all these signs of de-investment, they also succeed in the attempt not to pay suppliers, with the consequent increase in debts and late payments. Nor was there a response to the challenges of aging, the needs of autonomy of management, technological advances or humanization. Nothing! They just failed. It is time to reverse the way, and for that, the government has to blame me. The Prime Minister has to recognize the disorientation in health and must assume that it is now available to make the structural changes that the SNS needs. The Social Democratic Party is available to reform health in Portugal and we know the way to save the National Health Service. Therefore, it is not worth speaking in regime agreements or other agreements other than to reform the system from top to bottom. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] If the Socialist Party wants to continue negotiating State budgets as if a mercenary were to be dealt with, then continue to go to the management supermarket. To continue everything as it is, don't count on us! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u12	That was funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u13	Even at the opening stage, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The beginning of a new government cycle naturally calls for action, but there is a moment before action.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u15	Is this the beginning? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u16	Before we start walking again, something we refuse to stop doing, it is inevitable to look at the beginning of the journey and the path. Four years have passed earlier on the start of the previous Government's duties. I recall that in December 2015 there were more than 1 million Portuguese people without a family doctor in the SNS ; primary health care care activities had suffered a 7% drop since 2011 ; the value of consultation in primary health care was €5 and there were moderate fees in consultations and complementary acts related to some screenings; in the provision of long-term and continuous health care, such as the treatment of cancer patients and haemodialysed patients, non-emergency user transportation was subject to duplication. In December 2015, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the SNS had 119 000 workers and its normal working time was 40 hours. Those who had the lowest monthly salary received 505 € and those who had the highest monthly salary received 5211 €. For a normal 12 hour shift of work, from 20 Saturday to 8 Sunday hours, a graduate assistant doctor, last step, received 171 € for uncomfortable hours. [[PSD protests.]] In December 2015 the SNS had a revenue budget of EUR 8, EUR 6 billion and the weight of public expenditure on health was 66, 1 %. Now in November 2019 there are 6 % more citizens with a family doctor assigned to the SNS. Primary health care care activities increased by 2, 3 % between 2015 and 2018 ; the moderate rates have reduced and extended the dispensations of payment to all the activity inherent to population-based screenings and surveys promoted by the Directorate-General for Health. The non-emergency transport of patients has been eliminated and the number of such transports has increased by 16 %. In November 2019 there are 14 784 workers in the National Health Service and their normal working time is, as a rule, 35 hours. Those who have the lowest monthly salary receive 635 € and those who have the highest monthly salary receive 5664 €. For a normal shift of 12 hours, between 20 hours on Saturday and 8 hours on Sunday, a graduate assistant doctor, last step, now receives €357 for the uncomfortable hours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And more, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in November 2019, the SNS has an initial revenue budget of EUR 10 111 million and the public expenditure weight is 66 %. It is quite different, therefore, the starting point where we are at this beginning of legislation. They are more than 600,000 Portuguese with a family doctor, in addition to 100 new family health units ( USF ), of 80% of groups of health centres with oral health responses, of 78% with responses from clinical analyses, of 65% with radiology responses and of 60% with child health screenings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u17	A lot of work!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u18	There are more than 14,800 workers in the National Health Service, in addition to a normal period of 35 hours for those who have never had it – as is the case with 31 000 professionals with health contracts – of incentives for the establishment of doctors in deprived geographical areas, which today cover 467 jobs, the creation of pharmaceutical careers, higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and pre-hospital emergency technicians, among other aspects. There are more 1, 4 billion euros of growth in the SNS revenue budget, in addition to capital increases, which also amount to 1, 4 billion euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, we are a little more than one month from the end of 2019, an important year for the SNS, because they have celebrated 40 years on the date of its creation and because a new Health Bases Act has been approved. There have been two important aspects, of course, but the best way to give them coherence is to continue a government action to improve the economic and social conditions of the country. It's the social determinants of health, gentlemen. Members, they are not rhetorical, are the improvement of guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration, housing at bearable costs, quality public school and the democratization of access to higher education. The best way to give consistency to the commemoration of the 40 years of the SNS and the approval of a new Health Bases Act is to pursue a consistent government improvement action of the National Health Service. We know that SNS is not a perfect system, but we do not want to replace it with a public insurance system; we want to improve it. I would like, on my own behalf, to apologize to Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP, insofar as I was the one who inadvertently misled Mr Prime Minister about the number of patients and days of waiting for a consultation in the cardiology speciality of the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u19	In fact, it was halved, not the number of days, because these were 800, but the number of patients waiting for a consultation. We want to improve the SNS, I said. There are so many good examples of things that have already improved and some do not want to hear. I remember oral health in primary health care. Since 2016, 45 of the 55 groups of health centres, i.e. 82 %, have already installed oral health responses. There are dozens of dental chairs, in most cases installed in partnership with municipalities, with the support of dentists and hygiene technicians hired by regional health administrations. With them, it was possible to give access to oral health care to more than 72,000 SNS users. The reports of the professionals involved point out that, for some Portuguese, it was the first way to the dentist in a lifetime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember home hospitalization. Since September 2018, 23 hospitals have already joined the program that involves caring for patients at home in the acute phase of the disease and in the exacerbation of the chronic disease. Until October, about 3000 users were treated in this regime. It is as if we had built a medium-sized hospital — the one who accuses us of not building! — in a little more than one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u21	I remember the mental health and the responses of the National Network of Continued Care Integrated through the pilot experiences initiated in 2017, with about 200 places. They are not only hospitalization responses, but also support by home teams for people with severe, stabilized mental illness that result in psychosocial disability. They are answers that have met the specific need of people and have added to the 1400 beds with which the National Network of Integrated Continued Care has also been strengthened in the last four years. I also recall the pilot project to promote physical activity in the SNS, which includes a consultation of physical activity in primary health care, already implemented in 10 of the 13 pilot units, such a relevant aspect at a time when it has special meaning the impact of sedentaryism on many of the diseases that affect the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few months, we have done some things that many feared to say we would not be able. Do you remember the new Health Bases Act? We are preparing your regulations. Remember the Integrated Paediatric Hospital at the University Hospital Center of São João? It's going to gain foundations, week after week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Do you remember surgery postponed by a surgical strike? They were done. And the care activity of the SNS in October has more than 4% of surgeries than in the same period. Do you remember the 100 new USF? The hundredth was created on June 30th. The transformation of 20 USF model A into USF model B will take place on the next day of December 1. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have 20 new USF model A that can be realized this year, in what is the first step towards the generalization of this model. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u22	Mrs. Members, despite the difficulties, we will soon also have to be able to say that SNS hospitals have no patients waiting for another year, because we are working with our institutions in this regard, we have confidence in the capacity of the SNS, in the brightness of its health professionals and in the support of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] We in the Ministry of Health are here every day, we will be here every day, to continue this path. We know it's very difficult, but we don't give up on health that doesn't leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u23	Three honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, and Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite will answer together. For the first request for clarification, Mrs Joana Lima of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u24	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PSD intervention we have just heard, by his voice, allows the Portuguese to realize that there is a very clear and very distinct line to separate two ways of doing and being in politics. [[PSD protests.]] On the one hand, as we have just heard, there is a pamphlet speech, a bottom-down speech, an insistence on social alarmism instead of seeking solutions, in an attempt to deny one of the most important instruments of social cohesion — the SNS, Member of the Commission! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They demonstrate a latent theimosia in claiming for reforms, when, in essence, Mr Deputy, as was well stated in his speech, what they want most is to privatize and grant. Therefore, Mr President, as far as you are concerned, we are talking. On the other hand, the Socialist Party is aware that the National Health Service is experiencing difficulties, also the fruit of your governance... [[PSD laughter.]] ...and new challenges. This cannot demobilize us from wanting to intervene, promote their sustainability and seek new management models, which, as long as they try to convince us otherwise, are possible and we will achieve them, as the Minister said, and with the PSD or without the PSD. We want to do this by recalling the differences, Mr President, because they are too obvious. Let's imagine that the PS had significantly increased the moderate rates. You did it, we took them down. Let's imagine he cut off the transport of non-emergency patients. You did it, we reject it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's imagine that he had reduced the number of professionals affected by the SNS. You did it, we reject it. Let's imagine he'd applied cuts in pay. You did it, we repel them. Let's imagine he'd frozen careers. You did it. Let's imagine he had reduced the value of extraordinary hours. You did it. Let us imagine that it had unilaterally increased the weekly working time. You did it. [[PSD protests.]] Mr, this is all we inherited from VV. Ex. of your government, and it was with great effort of this government and of all health professionals that it was possible to make the SNS more efficient and humanized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is much more to say, Mr, but unfortunately my time has come to an end. All this is your health policy, it is the PSD policy. They are convinced of the following: a lie, because it is said too often, does not pass the truth, and the Portuguese know - it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u25	Well, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u26	The Portuguese know very well what you have done and what this government is doing. I would like to ask you a question, Mr President: what are your proposals? You can't just throw it down! What is the way you want to get all Portuguese to understand what the PSD wants for the SNS? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u27	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I have listened very carefully to you, but I have to make a repair. The honourable Member has forgotten a very important element in the analysis he has made and this element is the responsibility of the PSD for the current situation in which the health area is located.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u30	And I'll tell you why. Mr President, I do not think it is necessary to carry out a major impact study to assess the effects and consequences that the health policies of the PSD/CDS Government are still having. Do you know what the problem is, sir? The problem is that, despite the PSD and the CDS have left the government, the jaws and the consequences have remained. That's the problem! If it is true that the current government, and we recognize it, is beginning to delay taking measures to give effective response to all of these health problems, it is also true that PSD and CDS policies have played an absolutely central role...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u31	Central? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u32	... for its aggravation, having also contributed much to the situation of rupture that we are living today and to the situation in which we are in relation to health professionals. So, Mr President, what we believe is that, in order to make an objective and, above all, honest analysis of the current health situation, we cannot ignore certain elements. We cannot, of course, ignore the closure of health services throughout the country and the reduction in the number of beds and health professionals promoted by the PSD/CDS Government during those four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u33	It's extraordinary! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u34	Yeah, yeah! It's extraordinary, but it's true! We even had a Health Minister who said that he was closing health services to improve Portuguese access to health care!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u35	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u36	But I'm still going to mention one more element. It is also necessary to take into account the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals, which has reached all limits with the PSD/CDS Government. [[Rice from PSD member Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] I don't know if this will be funny as well, but I will have to remember that, by the hand of the PSD/CDS government, health has lost 7000 professionals, which, of course, has aggravated the response capacity of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u37	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u38	That is why, Mr President, I ask you: do you not think that if the PSD/CDS government had not made cuts in the area of health, as you will recognize, the PSD/CDS government has cut at least at moderate rates, inflationing them, the situation today would not be so bad? If the PSD/CDS government had not closed the health services that ended throughout the country, could things today be better or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u39	They could... or they wouldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u40	Finally, Mr President, I ask you: do you not think that if the PSD/CDS government, instead of providing 7000 health professionals, had hired health professionals who had been hired in the last four years, the situation would be better today? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u41	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PSD, in yesterday's 15-year debate, brought, in the voice of its President and bank leader, in this case and at this time the same person, a situation that certainly touches the whole country and that has to do with those poor people who cannot live on capital incomes. [[PS laughter.]] Indeed, they deserve a deep reflection in Parliament and certainly need support lines. And that's exactly what the PSD wants to do about health: a line of support to anyone who wants to live or from capital income or state income. We got it. For the PSD, the problem is identified—there are some people here who liked to speculate a little more, but, according to some, they cannot — and there is also the identified solution: "What if we used the 10 billion euros of the National Health Service for a giant income for these groups? » We understand! And that is why we realize that, in the PSD Elections Programme, which was defended by Mr Deputies in the election campaign, certainly, of the seven health priorities, four are for private funding. It begins with the use of public-private partnerships — first priority of the PSD for the health sector. Third priority: issuing vouchers, checks, etc. , for consultations — high priority! Fourth priority: the contractualization of private sector family doctors—of course, it could only be private sector! Then: enlargement of the network of continuous and palliative care—but through public response? No, of course! Through a conventional response!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u43	Just for the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u44	So here is: the great solution of the PSD is to use this EUR 10 billion cake,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u45	It's not for public health, it's for private health!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u46	... which is the budget of the National Health Service, not to invest in the National Health Service, but to ensure the financing of the private. So when you say that the PSD thinks that it is necessary to reverse the path, you think that structural changes are needed, you think that health reform is necessary, we say: "We have seen all this and we don't want any more! » We've seen all this between 2011 and 2015, we've seen many of these things before there's the National Health Service and we don't want any more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u47	The honourable Member has not been born yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u48	Mr. Deputy, the question is very simple: when does the book of Isabel Vaz cease to be in the header table and come to have the book that defends the National Health Service? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] from the PSD, we have never heard, for example, proposals to increase the number of professionals, to strengthen the budget of the National Health Service itself, to increase public responses. We understand that this would be a deep rupture with the PSD itself. But you know what? That's what the country needs! [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Cristina Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u49	In reply, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the government team and the Members. Members Joana Lima, José Luís Ferreira and Moses Ferreira, to whom I thank for the questions. It is very interesting to hear the questions of the three parties, because they all go on a coherent line. First, none of them spoke of this government. I understand that, because if I were on your side, I would also be ashamed to talk about this government! Open... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] There is another common feature, which is the idea that the PSD defends the private. But what's very curious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the facts, at the facts, at the reality, at what you deny and where you do not want to look, the privates have never grown as much in this country as with your governance! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u51	You've shut down the services!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u52	The privates have never grown so much! And you know why? Because you failed in the public health response. This is the basic question! [[Mr. Álvaro Almeida's compliments.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u53	You've shut down the services!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u54	Who is studying the Bible of Isabel Vaz and all other private groups, Mr. Moses Ferreira, are you. That's what's present! Of course, you cannot speak of anything but the troika. The Ecological Party Member said « The Greens »: « If they had not been the time cuts of the troika...» If you remember, they happened because of a bankruptcy of the Socialist Party, which had come there...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u55	Yeah, but the bank showed up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u56	I know you don't want to talk about this, but let me finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u57	Oh, I do, I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u58	As you remember, there was a Memorandum and a bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u59	Those are the reasons!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u60	of the cuts that occurred, 70% were made by the PSD/CDS government to the pharmaceutical industry, those cuts that still benefit the government today. [[PSD applause.]] That's something you don't talk about, because you don't have the courage to face the real powers installed in this country. Mr. Minister of Health, the curious thing is that in his speech—and he spoke for 10 minutes—I did not hear a word about people. He looked more like the Minister of Public Administration than the Minister of Health! [[PSD applause.]] What shocks me is that you can't understand that many of the health professionals who leave the public sector to work in the private sector will earn less than they earn in the public sector, because they're going to work for a place that gives them career expectations and recognition of their work. You don't talk to people and therefore you don't understand the reality of the difficulties you feel every day. At the level of primary health care, with an effective need for response, this government has opened less USF than in troika time. And is Mrs. Minister coming to apologize to the CDS? Oh, my God! I should have been apologizing to the country and the Portuguese for this situation! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u61	And the CDS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u62	Mrs. Minister of Health, the Socialist Party campaigned to say that it was going to do more and better. In the case of health, we were grateful that they did something! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u63	A number of requests for clarification to the Government are now followed — « several» is a way of saying, because they are 18. In the meantime, the Minister informed the Bureau that she would jointly respond to the first seven requests for clarification, one of each parliamentary group, and that she would then see how the rest of the time was organized. For clarifications, Mr. Alberto Machado, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ms. Minister of Health, the official data of the Ministry of Health have shown the increase in the average waiting times of the users of the National Health Service for consultations and surgeries. After the serious failure of the Prime Minister at yesterday's session, regarding the waiting time for cardiology consultation at the Hospital Padre Américo, in the Vale do Sousa, I present to you today another example among many at national level. At the Hospital de São João, the waiting time for an ophthalmology consultation increased from 361 days at the end of 2017 to 460 days in August 2019. It's almost 10,000 people waiting for a consultation. How does the Minister explain this brutal increase in waiting times in the SNS? In addition, in March 2019, the Minister of Health assures this Parliament that "all users with normal priority who have been waiting for more than 12 months will have their consultation or surgery by the end of the year". Well, we are one month from the end of the year and the question is whether the users who were waiting for more than 12 months ago will see their consultations or surgeries by the end of this year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u65	Ms. Minister of Health, the Ministry that has been guardian for more than half a year without updating the website of the average response times for first consultations and surgeries. Has it been the pre-election Azafama or will the Minister seek to hide from the Portuguese the government's lack of capacity to manage the SNS? In conclusion, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, knowing these results, I can only say that your Ministry is, as it was said on the land of my grandparents, "without a king or a rock", simply drifting away. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u66	To request clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD on the opportunity of this inquiry on health policies. This is, in fact, a subject that tells Portuguese a lot, and it is also an opportunity for the government to explain the priorities of governance in the field of health. But, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, don't take it hard to tell you that the tone with which they do it reveals a bad loss,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u68	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u69	... reveals an inconsolable resentment. It's time for the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, leave that Azedum behind! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this resentment, to exist, is with the Portuguese people. Maybe a constructive opposition ends the Azedum at once...! Mrs. Minister, let's go to the point. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] Mr. Deputies, take it easy! For the first time, 9, 5 million Portuguese have family doctor assigned. This, yes, is a victory that we must celebrate, because of the government's efforts, the professionals and users as well. The merit, that, must be distributed with justice. But the Government, Mrs Minister, cannot even hide the problems. And I know you don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u70	It's not possible! Well, try!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u71	For them, solutions should be found. Therefore, in view of the experience already shown that the reform of primary health care and the creation of family health units have already translated into more and better health care for the entire population, with regard to proximity care, what measures has the Ministry prepared to dynamize this reform? Finally, while concrete and urgent measures are also needed to overcome constraints in hospital units, what measures does the Minister face to create intermediate levels of management in these units, such as the cases of integrated responsibility centres, the famous ‘CRI’? to the Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members I remember that the comparison parameter is the centre of Prof. Manuel Antunes, in Coimbra — we will all agree, of course — thus strengthening the technical-scientific hierarchy and the role of the service directors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u72	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u73	Mr President, I welcome the Minister and, with particular attention — I would like to apologize to her — the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. State Secretaries, at this beginning of duties. I would also like to say that in the CDS we recorded Mrs. Minister's care in recognizing yesterday's error. The subject which I wanted to bring today is on an internal order — I say that it is internal, because I did not find it published in the Journal of the Republic — signed by Mr. Secretary of State Antonio Sales, which says that health sector entities, hospitals in particular, « should not increase the number of workers, compared to the register in 2019, except in exceptional situations evaluated and approved, on a case-by-case basis, by protection ». Mr. Secretary of State was a Member of the former Parliament and, by chance, belonged to the working group from which Act No. 87 / 2019 of the Assembly of the Republic resulted, a Law which arises following a CDS initiative and which concerns the strengthening of SNS entities for contracting purposes, precisely. Article 3. this law states that the board of directors of the SNS entities are endowed with autonomy to, after an effective survey and demonstration of the need, contract human resources, without having to pass through the finances and only with a ratification by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u74	Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u75	This Law No 87 / 2019, of the Assembly of the Republic, which will enter into force with the next State Budget, is in complete contradiction with its internal office. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take this opportunity to ask — and the Minister will, of course, reply to me — what is happening, after all. In principle, as I know, a law of the Assembly of the Republic obliges citizens, as well as the government, to comply with it. Unless the Government understands itself above what has been said by the Assembly of the Republic, when preparing the State budget, it is Law No 87 / 2019, which results from an initiative of the CDS, strengthening, which must be fulfilled. I would therefore like to know what the government is going to do. It will be above the Assembly of the Republic, through an internal order, or it will comply with what Mr. Have Members approved, with the vote against the PS, I know, but with the vote in favour of the remaining seats? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u76	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u77	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Health, Mr President. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, there are, in fact, pillars and areas of health activity in Portugal that require urgent action. Health in Portugal has supported most of its intervention at the level of treatment and rehabilitation of the sick person, with a minimum weight in the areas of prevention and reintegration of people. Two clear examples of this are the low percentage allocated in successive State budgets to the area of prevention. Yesterday, we had the pleasure of having in this House the very coordinator of the National Mental Health Program, Dr. Miguel Xavier, who warned us that the goals established until 2016 need to be extended and it is necessary to regain lost time. Ms. Minister, the issues we bring to you today are related to this introduction that I have made and are resulting from an analysis of the picture of health in Portugal, prepared by the Ministry of Health itself. From now on, I would move forward with two questions. One of them relates to the inevitability of aging and the government's responsibilities towards older people. According to this report, in the indicator concerning the number of healthy years of life lived after 65 years, we are one of the least healthy years of life after this age. The truth is that you live more, but with more difficulties and more comorbidity. According to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), including 40% of the elderly belong to the group of the poorest 20 % who cannot access or have to delay access to health care for financial reasons. On the one hand, if it is clear the ageing of the Portuguese population and, on the other hand, if it is also clear the difficulties of access to health by many elderly people, who have no way of paying home support, what answers are provided for access to health and decent treatment for our elderly people? How will the health structures, particularly those of proximity, be effectively prepared to deal with dementia? And the national plan of dementia is really going to be implemented? How long? The second question concerns the avoidability of chronic diseases if there is political will. There has been a significant increase in chronic diseases and a high number of people with multiple diseases. As we all know, chronic diseases are responsible for 80% of mortality in European countries. In fact, in Portugal, the main risk factors at the origin of most diseases that cause death or loss of quality of life are overweight, inadequate eating habits, sedentaryism, smoking and alcoholism. We also know that 68% of the Portuguese population over the age of 15 is overweight or obese, that 3 in 10 Portuguese have arterial hypertension, and sedentaryism is another risk factor. This combination of factors leads to a negative leadership position in what are brain vascular accidents (CVA), as far as Portugal is concerned. We also know that people with a higher educational level have a lower propensity to suffer from chronic diseases. In the middle of this, the good news is that these data can be modified and avoided and therefore the NAP has brought here the focus on prevention. Mrs. Minister, we are talking about the death of people, of treatments, of unnecessary processes and costs, of human resources wear that could be avoided. We all realize that the investment in prevention is not entirely enough and we know that it is not because there are no plans, because they exist and are many, what is missing is more implementation and greater consistency. Therefore, Mrs Minister, we ask what commitments the Government has made with a view to having a real commitment to the prevention and reversal of this data. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u78	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Madam Minister, the CFP defends the National Health Service for the benefit of the populations and health care they receive, contrary to the PSD and successive governments—where the PS also has heavy responsibilities—which defend the SNS to serve as funding to the economic groups living at the expense of the disease business. The decredibility of the SNS is part of the strategy of those who defend their privatization and pass through the restriction to the quantity and appreciation of their professionals. It is that without the necessary health professionals, response capacity is reduced, waiting times are increased, and as a result, services reduce operating hours or close down. Therefore, when the PCP speaks of the urgency of investing in the National Health Service, we speak in a very particular way in strengthening health professionals and their appreciation, without which it is not possible to guarantee quality and safety in the service provided to the populations. Ms. Minister, visiting the IPO (English Institute of Oncology ), the PCP found that no licensing is possible for more radiotherapy treatment rooms due to lack of professional ratio, which leads the Institute to use the private. In the Imagiology Service of the Hospital Center Lisboa Norte, since October, in the evening, there are no radiologists in the emergency service, so the hospital has to resort to teleradiology. In Beja more than half a hundred doctors are missing to respond to current needs, resulting in the temporary closure of hospital maternity emergency. In primary health care, the lack of doctors and family nurses is, at the moment, very worrying, a shocking situation. When health professionals are not recognized, feel devalued and demotivated and end up leaving the SNS, going to private or abroad. Mr. Minister, the SNS is still a service we are proud of and need to be strengthened. Only with more professionals will we have more SNS. I wonder if the Minister accompanies the CFP in the need for career development, training, progress towards the exclusive dedication of health professionals, guaranteeing their rights to fix them in the SNS, providing the services with the necessary and sufficient health professionals? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u80	You now have the floor by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u81	Mr President, Minister, health is, as we know, one of the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. But the situation in which many of the National Health Service services are located is unfortunately not recommended, because many of these services are in a situation that even threatens to break up. We well know that the problem is not today, and we well know that the current situation is also the result of structural insufficiency. In fact, if today's lack of response from the SNS is more than visible, it is also evident that this lack of response is largely due to the political options of several governments that over the decades have finally consolidated and raised the underfunding of the SNS almost to the condition of established rule, a situation that, in fact, has been greatly aggravated by the PSD-CDS/PP government, which has left health more fragile than ever. Today we have more health professionals, it is true, but it is also true that they are still insufficient. This lack of human resources is seriously challenging the provision of health care and further weakening the capacity to respond to the needs of Portuguese by the National Health Service. For this reason, the Greens consider that strengthening the hiring of health professionals is absolutely essential for the survival of the SNS itself with the standard that Portuguese deserve and the one they are entitled to. It is that if the National Health Service represents a lot for Portuguese people, it is too important to continue on this path of fragility. If through the National Health Service we can substantially improve health indicators in Portugal, if we can improve the health and quality of life of Portuguese people, their strengthening must be at the top of political priorities. In any case, Mrs. Minister, we have no doubt that the situation in terms of health is better at all levels when compared to the situation left by the PSD/CDS government. [[PSD and CDS-PP Member Protests Ana Rita Bessa.]] It happens that the comparison cannot be made with the PSD/CDS government policies. And it can't be done why? Because on health the PSD/CDS government had only a petty accounting notion, being unable to see in a patient anything more than a source of expenditure and waste. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Therefore, the comparison cannot be made with the PSD/CDS government policies. The comparison must be made with what the Portuguese have the right—and there, Mrs Minister, there is a lot to do, because when we look at emergency services today, for example, we take our hands to the head. Therefore, Mr Minister, it was important for you to tell us what plans the Government has to respond to all these problems. Finally, I ask you to clarify very concretely, which is the following: the Barreiro Montijo Hospital Center is already a few months ago without Occupational Medicine or Occupational Medicine. Mrs. Minister, I would like you to tell us how this situation justifies in a hospital with the importance of the Barreiro Montijo Hospital Center and whether this situation is about to be resolved in the short term.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u82	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u83	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, on 12 November, Mr Secretary of State signed an order in which the entities are prohibited from increasing their number of workers vis-à-vis the register in 2019 and that any authorisation is exceptional and must be approved by the guardianship. This order not only violates a law that strengthens the autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service as it also comes in contrast to the law of bases we passed in the previous legislation, because the law of bases obliges the State to ensure the resources that are necessary for the realization of the direct to health protection. But more than that, this order goes against the expectations of the population. The first order of a new government should be an order to strengthen professionals, to strengthen the National Health Service, and not an order to put pressure on the need to hire professionals for the National Health Service. I therefore believe that the Minister should take advantage of being present here in the plenary to say that this office is buried, that there is no one, that it will not produce effects, that there will be no kind of limitation on recruitment, provided that the need for institutions is demonstrated. The Minister should take advantage to say that it will, yes, strengthen and deepen the autonomy of the institutions, and, indeed, that is the question which the Left Block leaves here. I would also like to remind you that, in the previous legislature, a long and sometimes difficult way to strengthen the National Health Service has been made. Long and difficult as we saw, for example, in the law of bases, with many advances and retreats, particularly by the Socialist Party, but which was possible, and still well. However, we cannot let any new directives or guidelines go beyond everything that has been done. So the question is very specific: will the government bury this office? Yes or no? Will the government allow the autonomy of the contracting institutions? Yes or no? I would also like to ask you two questions that relate to the State Budget for 2019. In the State Budget for 2019, we, Block Left, included an article for the creation of mental health pilot teams in the community. We know that, by the program, this work is done, we know that by ACSS (Central Health System Administration, I.P. ) , the budget work is done, but still yesterday the programme director said that there is a need for someone to say yes - and that someone will obviously be the government - and someone to hire, and that one is also the government. And that has to happen this year of 2019. So I also ask you why you have not moved forward and what you will do until December 31, 2019 to advance with these pilot teams. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u84	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Machado asked me about the lack of guidance and lack of answers to the plan for the recovery of waiting lists and improving access. I want to tell you that we have been working with the management teams of the various hospitals since the beginning of the year, on a work base of great proximity, mainly intensified in the last two, three months, and that at this time hospitals such as Barreiro Montijo, Setúbal, Médio Tejo, Médio Ave, Barcelos, the Local Health Unit of Upper Minho and the Hospital Center of Porto no longer have situations of patients waiting for more than a year for consultations of hospital specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to tell you that there is a great chance that we will not be able to achieve the objectives that we have proposed — I say so frankly. But we also say with all honesty that we will continue to work. In fact, the circumstances of the numbers of the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa were held yesterday in this Chamber is only a reflection of our concern about these numbers and the fact that the lists are being constantly discussed and worked by hospitals. With regard to this hospital, I would like to stress that the commitment of the board of directors is that, in fact, at the end of this year, there are no cardiology users waiting for another year for an external consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any case, I also want to tell them very clearly that we care about people and therefore do not prevent us from resorting to the private sector when they need answers. That's what we do in various circumstances and that's what we've been trying to do, for example, to ensure pediatric urgency at Garcia de Orta Hospital. Concern about people is always the priority and we have, in fact, tried to have answers, both with pediatricians from private hospitals and with pediatricians from the social sector. Unfortunately, they were not and were not effectively shown to be possible in these circumstances. But I also want to tell you that Portuguese believe in the National Health Service. The rate of seizure of surgical valleys and the circumstance of it being only 20 % shows exactly that Portuguese and Portuguese, contrary to what so many and so many say, unfortunately insisting on denigrating... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... one of the strongest foundations of our democracy and our social state, they believe in the National Health Service. Fortunately, as Minister, I have good examples of this when I move to health services. I would also like to tell you, Mrs Maria Antónia Almeida Santos, that primary health care is, in fact, the pillar of our work, and they will continue to be, as in the previous legislation, unlike what happened before, when primary health care, as seen, decreased by 7 % in terms of medical consultations. I believe that the paradigmatic example of the limitation that existed in access to Portuguese primary health care, through various forms, is this decline that occurred in the years 2011 to 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where are primary health care going? They go to the generalization of the model of the family health units ( USF ). Therefore, we have made a few references to the processing and creation of more than 20 USF this year, so we are betting on the resolution of primary health care and on complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, such as radiology or clinical analysis, which are already available, and complementary responses of psychology, nutrition, oral health are also being made available. The aim, as you know, is to increase decentralized consultations, ensuring a better link between hospital care and primary health care, because we do not want a ‘supermarket health’, we do not want an act-based health. For us, health is not a product, so it is not sold in any establishment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Health is something integrated and that is why we believe that primary health care must be the basis of our work. With regard to intermediate levels of management, of course our Government Programme is working on this. We believe that intermediate levels of management are absolutely fundamental to strengthen the hospital model. It was the autonomy of the family health units that allowed primary health care to have given the jump that hospital care is still on the way. Therefore, support for integrated responsibility centres will also be a reality, with the analysis of the forms of organization of the work of the service directors. Another aspect that seems very relevant to me is, in fact, the continuation of the strengthening of home hospitalization and the link between various networks, including social and civil society. That's where we're going to keep working. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, on behalf of the Bureau of the Secretary of State — and I am also sorry to mention, in this regard, Mr Musa Musa Ferreira's intervention — which has brought there to remain no doubt, and I believe that this time I have not been wrong, I must say that there have been previous orders exactly the same since 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u86	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u87	... by Mr. Secretary of State Manuel Teixeira, later Mr. Secretary of State Manuel Delgado, later Mr. Secretary of State Fernando Araújo, later Ms. Secretary of State Rosa Valente de Matos. The question is that what the office refers to is that, for the purposes of budgeting, hospitals must adhere to the same number of human resources they have available, except in duly substantiated situations. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] That is to say, it was with an order of this kind that we have carried out the hiring of 15 000 workers over the past four years and nothing prevents us from, in conjunction with hospitals—because we articulate with hospitals, discuss with them the contracts and move forward when they are necessary—making new contracts. Regarding the issue of autonomy for contracts, it is worth stressing that, in the past legislature and since the beginning of this year, hospitals have already autonomy for the direct hiring of several professional groups. We are working to ensure that this autonomy exists for all professional groups, but, of course, this is a path that we want to deepen. Obviously, the laws of this House are to comply and, therefore, in the 2020 Budget we will be here to respect it, without doubt and with particular commitment...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u88	I hope so!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u89	...because we also think that strengthening autonomy hospitals is the right way. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, on the issue of the low percentage of expenditure for the promotion, prevention and public health in general, it is worth stressing that Portugal has above all a problem of identifying this expenditure. The most typical case is that of vaccines, which do not appear associated with this expenditure in our international comparisons. In other words, the way we register expenditure is something that we want to improve, in fact, regardless of the need that we also feel to affect more money in these areas and to strengthen them. I believe that no government has ever wagered as much in public health as the former Executive. They were programs such as the promotion of physical exercise, which I referred to, and the promotion of healthy food; they were aspects related to the whole area of lifestyles and literacy for health, a work with the representative associations of the users and even with the support of the National Health Council. So this is clearly a work that we are going to do in depth. I would like to tell you that, as mentioned in our Government Programme, and we hope that by 2020 we will have signs of this in the Budget we are preparing, there is clear support for the care of older people, particularly for people with dementia problems, so we have adopted a plan in this area and we will now implement it. Contact with vulnerable people will be carried out by extending a program that we already have telephone contact with people in isolation. It is something we want to continue to develop in the same way that we continue to consider that primary health care is the best door to this relationship, because there is no such thing as the doctor or family nurse in support of these people. I was told by Mr. João Dias that doctors are missing in various entities of the National Health Service. There is probably a need to continue the strengthening of human resources in the National Health Service. In any case, I cannot help but underline, and we all know, although often asked where they were, that in the previous legislation entered 3909 doctors in the National Health Service. There are few institutions that have not had an increase in doctors in the last four years, and these doctors are distributed between 2761 specialists and 1148 interns, who do their training in the National Health Service. Also at the level of nurses there are today more 6262 and the remaining increase is distributed by the other professional groups. I would like to tell you that it is clear that support for health professionals is vital for the functioning of the National Health Service and we understand this very well. But we have no doubt that this support has to be balanced with the answers to the citizens, which will always be our priority when we have to make some choice. I am virtually finishing, but I would like to tell Mr. José Luís Ferreira that, in the second epoch competition of 2019 which will now open for the placement of new specialists, is a vacancy for occupational health exactly for the Barreiro-Montijo Hospital Center. Mr. Moisés Ferreira wanted to say that the Community mental health teams, which are provided for in the 2019 Budget, will be ready to begin their duties at the beginning of 2020. It is not guaranteed that the competitive procedures that we need to develop with some ARS are all complete for this year, but we are working to complete as many as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u90	Mr Minister, the Bureau records many entries of Members, more precisely 13, to request clarifications. To initiate requests for clarification, I will give the floor to Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms. Minister, the state of the National Health Service in Aveiro district is absolutely chaotic. In Luso, Mealhada municipality, in the health extension, which is until recently, rains in medical offices, the electric picture fires and there is no safety conditions for users, nor for doctors. In Águeda, the health center has even closed for the same reasons: it rains through the lamps and the electric frame no longer works. Throughout the district, Ms.Minister, there is a lack of medical, technical, administrative staff, lack of staff, which has led, in fact, to the closure of the Maceda health extension, in Ovar Town Hall, inaugurated only in 2016. [[PS protests.]] Already in Hotelria-a-Velha the health center is completely abandoned. It rains in there, the air conditioning doesn't work, pladur plates fall and even closed at the end of October and from there until now little or nothing has been done. At Aveiro Hospital, Mrs. Minister, the situation is inhuman and outraged. The news of the last month that is accompanied by more recent news this week indicates patients piled up, at dozens, in monkeys. Ms. Minister, Portugal needs a Minister of Health. [[PSD applause.]] What I'm here to ask you is whether Dr. Marta Temido will continue to "swim aside" or whether she will assume her responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u92	I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, the debate we have today started yesterday, since several benches had the opportunity to ask Mr Prime Minister questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u94	And he didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u95	Today we have the Minister here, and I once again take the opportunity to clarify Parliament's health policy. I confess that when I hear, quite slightly speaking, some of the representatives of the benches that intervened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u96	Can it be more specific?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u97	... presenting solutions to our health problems, they make me think that they make these decisions with the leviance that we often make the renewal of our home appliances at any promotion of Black Friday. But, in fact, it's not Friday, it's Thursday,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... and indeed, health issues are serious, refer to the lives of Portuguese and deserve all of us respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, we all deserve respect and seriousness in the way we approach them. I do not want to make this debate a sort of « mud fight», nor do I want to contribute to it, otherwise I would remember titles of the genre: two years later, Passos Coelho will close almost 2000 public services, some of them of the health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u99	...and they could have chosen not to do so, or then the government will close cancer services. This is not the discussion I want. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u100	Oh, yes! It hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u101	I want to take this opportunity to address a word of encouragement and encouragement to all SNS professionals and in particular to those of Garcia de Orta. Recently, this unit has been very much mentioned about the closure of the pediatric urgency, its reorganization, but I would like to remind you — and I regret that this is news, as it is logical, and the Socialist Party and its Parliamentary Group are following up on the situation — which, for example, that unit is a great reference in outpatient care. Mrs. Minister, I wanted to ask you about the National Oral Health Programme. For years and years, oral health, it can't even be said that he was the poor relative, he was not related, nor was he poor, because there was no public offer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was decided, well, to invest in this area and the results begin to appear: more dental checks issued and used; extension of supply to more groups of the population; more attended users; greater number of consultations conducted and more health units with dental medical consultations. However, we still have no answer in all councils. The question I would like to ask you, taking advantage of the fact that you are here, is how the Minister looks forward to the enlargement of this network in the next Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u102	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, would like to ask very specific questions about the Port district, not turning off the reality that lives in the Port district and the answers that exist in the district of what is the reality of effective de-investment in the National Health Service and the lack of response to the needs of the populations that took place in successive governments. The PCP Parliamentary Group visited Pedro Hispano Hospital in Matosinhos. We have been confronted with the shortage of professionals in this hospital - doctors, nurses and especially medical action assistants - and we have also been asked the question of the underfinancing of the Pedro Hispano Hospital in the face of the needs and answers that this institution needs to ensure to the entire population serving. We were also asked the question of the replacement of health equipment to be done slowly, which causes many tests to be done outside this hospital, not ensuring the answers that could be guaranteed internally if there were the conditions and the funding needed for these health equipment to be replaced early and not only when they reach the end of their useful time of life. Mrs Minister, we need to give a response to the users of this hospital in solving these very specific problems. It was also necessary to provide a response to the lack of assistants at the Magalhães Lemos Hospital, which the PCP Parliamentary Group also visited, but above all and in conjunction with other ministries, to ensure a response to users who have very specific needs, as well as their families, in particular in the follow-up to the post-alt, thus avoiding that many of these users have to return to the hospital because there are no conditions for social monitoring or other responses to these users. Mrs. Minister, we cannot fail to ask questions about the Hospital de Santo Tirso, which needs to be strengthened, providing valences to serve the needs of the population and also strengthening the number of its professionals, we also need to know the situation of the works of recovery of the Hospital de Santo Tirso, in Porto. Regarding health centres in this same municipality there is a lack of professionals, which means that users wait a long time for their consultations, having to be in the health center hours before they can access consultations in the health centers of the municipality of Santo Tirso. Ms. Minister, the defense of the National Health Service is inseparable from strengthening funding, strengthening responses to populations and also valuing the professionals of the National Health Service. It is therefore necessary to respond to the population of the port district on these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u104	Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, where we have seen, where health care is provided by excellent professionals, we see, hear and read and we cannot ignore what is happening in Coimbra. I don't want to talk here about psychiatry, which is a matter that eventually we'll talk about one of these days, but I want to talk about what's going on with the new maternity that, after all, walks, doesn't go away. To be more concrete, I bring you the case of orthopaedics, which was first-page news this week, Mrs. Minister, news where it is said that the orthopaedics of the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra, in Cellas, has inundated facilities, walls full of bubbles, conditions of third world, which are cause of indignation. The news is fresh, but fresh, fresh is reality, because professionals have to use chickens, because the cold that passes there requires it. What Portugal needs is not a minister of the disease; what Portugal needs is a minister of the patients, because behind each pain, of every affliction, of every announced end, is a person who suffers and who is not an unsalted number in the statistics of which you so much speak. Madam Minister, in health it is urgent to return compassion, in politics it is urgent to return to the truth,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u106	... while the Portuguese still believe that two plus two is four. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u107	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I would like to bring here an issue which has not resulted in any precipitation, because difficulties have long been identified, particularly as regards the number of pediatricians at Garcia de Orta Hospital. I would like to say that what happened with regard to the closure of these pediatric emergencies means a 30-year backwardness for the population covered by this hospital...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u110	... and it means a strong penalty for these children and young people with regard to access to health. The Minister does not say that extending the time of health centres is a solution, because she knows as well as we do not. What happened at Garcia de Orta Hospital is not only the result of the disinvestment but also the result of the failure to adopt concrete measures for the resolution of this problem, which has long been identified and should have been taken for a long time. But, Madam Minister, in addition to the need to solve the problem and to ensure the functioning of pediatric emergencies, I would also like to ask you another question, because yesterday, Mr Prime Minister did not answer and we hope that today the Minister will respond: whether or not the Government intends to concentrate the functioning of pediatric emergencies in the night in a single hospital on the Setubal peninsula? If so, this means not only not only not solving the problem but also concentrating and reducing valences and thus creating difficulties for children and young people in this region. Mrs. Minister, I am now referring to more situations resulting from the lack of measures taken in the National Health Service, giving her concrete examples: the Miranda do Corvo Family Health Unit in Coimbra was closed yesterday because of the lack of technical assistants and only reopened today at 12 hours, having to relocate two technical assistants so that this unit could function; there are great concerns about the functioning of the Pediatric and Neonatology Services of the Queen's Caldas Hospital and the White Castle Matternity; the concentration of pneumology admission at the HUC (Université de Coimbra Hospital) is ongoing, losing the Covõ Hospital this valence and also losing a multidisciplinary team of highly valued professionals. Ms. Minister, we are talking about concrete situations that occur a little across the country, revealing that there is a need to invest in the National Health Service and that there is a need to hire more professionals and to regain the capacity of the National Health Service. But we can say more: there are health centers and hospitals that work in facilities with very bad conditions. This is an example of the Figueira da Foz Hospital, where since the storm Leslie has worsened the infiltrations, where there are consultations that have been given in containers for more than 20 years and that when it rains, they have to be relocated to other places, because there is a risk of short circuit. But we can also mention the various commitments which have been made by this government and for which, over the past four years, little or nothing has been done to achieve them, which are an example of the construction of the hospitals of Seixal and Évora, or also the intervention in the Santarém operating bloc, which is still awaiting completion. There are obsolete equipment in the National Health Service and I think it's paradigmatic that...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u111	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. ... during the orthopedic consultations at Santa Maria Hospital, X-ray equipment has been running for 41 years. So, what is required, here, Mrs. Minister is...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u113	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u114	... concrete responses and measures to solve these problems, hiring more professionals and implementing more investment for modernization in the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u115	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u116	Mr President, I welcome the Bureau, the Minister, the ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Minister, I'd like to ask you for quick clarification. First of all: on page 16 of the draft budget plan which the Government sent to Brussels a few weeks ago, it refers to the existence of, and I quote, « an extensive report by the Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the Health Budget Programme. » What does this report say and where? Second clarification: in the spring report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems it is reported that Portugal takes more than 500 days than Germany to approve medicines and Portugal is on this list the third worst country in Europe. Why, Mrs. Minister? Third clarification: in 2016, the weekly hours of most SNS professionals were reduced by 12, 5 %, i.e. from 40 to 35 hours and a recent estimate showed that, among the professionals who were already hired, those who had now retired and those who still needed to complete the services, the balance was about 13 000 professionals, curiously close to 12, 5 % of the time reduction. After all, did this reduction for 35 hours always cost? Fourth clarification: We were recently surprised, Mrs. Minister, with the idea of decreeing the requirement of stay in the SNS of newly trained doctors. After binding the users to the waiting lines, does the government now want to tie the doctors to the SNS? Fifth clarification: in 2016, the LAC (Free Access and Circulation) system was introduced in some primary health units, which allows the family doctor to refer the patient to a hospital of the SNS to the choice of the patient. Can you share with the plenary the evaluation you make today of this system? Sixth, and this request for clarification is no longer so short: we look at the National Health Service and we see that there are hospitals with obvious lack of staff and services closed; there are weekly breaks of medicines in pharmacy and hospitals; there are 700 000 people without access to the family doctor; there are false emergencies in hospitals due to lack of family doctors; there are times of waiting in consultations and surgeries that are inhuman; the snowball of doctors that, desperate with lack of means, ask for civil liability; 20 % of surgeries are carried out outside of recommended clinical time; the SNS records successive losses and, in 2018, these losses were 2, 5 times higher than those found in 2017; the rates of infant and maternal mortality, in 2018, have risen; there are works that do not leave the paper despite release, with pump, time after time. This is the portrait of a system in implosion and, while we are witnessing the implosion of the system, there are numerous studies, reports and evidence showing that freedom of choice in health works for the benefit of patients and public history. Moreover, the Prime Minister himself said yesterday. here, and I quote, «I am even a defender of freedom of choice and therefore I want universal public services», i.e. the Prime Minister himself does not confuse public services with State services. For all this, it is urgent to ask: when is a real reform that ensures everyone, and not only those who can afford, a comprehensive and effective universal health service? By the time I finally accept that the patient's freedom of choice must be the center of any health system? By the time, Madam Minister, will you agree to discuss with the Liberal Initiative the proposals that we have for the sector and that such good results have produced in the countries where they have been applied?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u117	To request clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, in Portugal the mental illness is the second responsible for the global burden of disease immediately following cardiovascular diseases. The results of the study on the prevalence of mental diseases in the Portuguese adult population should leave us all quite concerned. With higher prevalence rates in the disorders of depression and anxiety and the need for professionals in primary health care, the basic response often falls into the excessive prescription of psychopharmaceuticals, with high costs for families and for the state and not ensuring the proper and comprehensive treatment of many of these diseases. Ms. Minister, according to the Report of the Evaluation of the National Mental Health Plan and priority proposals for the extension 2020, last year the Portuguese bought 20 million psychopharmaceutical packages, and Portuguese and Portuguese continue to have limited access to psychologists and other health professionals in the National Health Service, in ADSE and in other subsystems and health insurance. Moreover, there is also a high asymmetry in the geographical distribution of services, which clearly generates inequalities in access to services. This situation is even worse when we think about the mental health of children and young people. Is the Government therefore prepared to create conditions for a genuine national agenda, with the proper and effective priority for health prevention in Portugal? According to Dr. Miguel Xavier, a budgetary value of around EUR 10 million will be required for the development of Community mental health services. Is the Government therefore available to assume the commitment to include this money in the State budget, thereby filling one of the health needs? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u119	It's Mr. André Ventura's turn from arrive. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u120	Mr President, Minister, today a report by the Health Regulatory Authority has been known to indicate serious deficiencies in the functioning of health care. We would like to know, being a report of the Regulatory Entity itself, what you intend to do about it, especially because the head of the PS parliamentary board, which is here today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u121	I'm always here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u122	... said, and I quote: "Every day there are messages of failures in the National Health Service", which we recognize as truth. Therefore, the fact that the PS today comes here to say that it is all right and that they do not understand the reason for this debate and that the honourable Member says that every day she receives messages on how the system is not working, of two, one: or the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party has already lost confidence in itself—I do not know whether this is the case— or explain what will be done to avoid these failures of the national health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u123	Don't go that way, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u124	But above all, I wonder what you are going to do in a country where all reports and complaints point to a brutal lack of drugs for very serious diseases, which continues to increase steadily over the past few months. We can talk about black Friday and laugh, we can enjoy the situation, but when the Portuguese come to the pharmacy and there are no medicines, no one can laugh. Not black Fridays, not black Mondays! You don't talk, you don't say, you don't hide. It's a shame! I would like to ask you, Minister, about the pediatric wing of the Hospital São João. Shamefully, in an election campaign, the works were announced and the yard was mounted for the works, but the hospital did not respond to the request of the Arrival—and I think that no one else—about how the works are going. Mrs. Minister, you're not running and that's the problem! About the nurses, they come here today to talk about their careers. When she received the nurses in March — Mrs. Minister has a nice look, I understand — she said: "I like to see you, although with pity, because I haven't yet managed to get you to rest in peace." Mrs. Minister, it's been seven months! Where can nurses rest in peace today? Where can they rest in peace? What did you do for nurses' careers and what will you continue to do? It is very funny to hear the questions put to you by the Left Block and the Communist Party, because they criticize, they say it's a shame, they say they haven't done anything in four years, but the Minister doesn't mind. And you know why you don't care? Because in the State Budget they will be here to give you your hand, because if they were consistent with what they defend in the State Budget they would pass red cards to the government. As they're never gonna do, we're going to be another four years to stop this, and the Portuguese are going to be another four years to stop this health policy. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u125	It's all a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u126	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 February this year, before the elections, the Minister stated that it was not necessary to close the « such unit » — as the Socialist Party's Member said — that it was the pediatric urgency of Garcia da Orta Hospital (HGO )...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u128	From the garden are the fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u129	... during the night. A little longer a week ago, that is, after the elections, the Minister came to do the opposite than she had ever assumed with the Portuguese, which is no longer new and is no longer the first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u131	That is, he came to say — the words are exactly those of the Minister — that at this moment we see ourselves in the contingency of, in the evening period, closing the night urgency of the Garcia de Orta Hospital. I ask you, Minister: how was this possible? How was it possible for the Minister, in February, before the elections, to say that she was out of the question to close the pediatric urgency of Garcia de Orta and, in November, after the elections, to close those same emergencies? Mr. Minister, this is unacceptable, it is unwise, and the families of the south bank were deprived of nocturnal pediatric care on the account of this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, it was this government, the government that you support, which closed the pediatric urgency of Garcia de Orta Hospital, on the south bank. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u132	It was PSD, CDS and PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u133	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, in health, when there is a diagnosis and the therapies fail due to lack of resources and resources, we clearly have that the government is not fully fulfilling its role. It is the case of the health problem in the Algarve, a theme that is really undisturbed. Despite the fallacious promises of the socialist government, the truth is that the construction of the central hospital of the Algarve has been successively postponed. In politics, seriousness is required and commitment is required for people...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u135	As in everything in life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u136	... and the socialist governments have missed the truth and respect of the population of the Algarve. Mr Minister, will your Government prioritize this fundamental work and launch its implementation during its term of office?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u137	Something the PSD didn't do!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u138	Will the Minister, even to the construction of this work, by the algarves, provide the human and material means to ensure better access to health or will we have to wait longer and pay the bill for this neglect by the government, with the life and health of people? Mrs. Minister, I still have one more question for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u139	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u140	How is it possible for a patient in the Algarve to wait one year for surgery and four years for a specialist consultation? You must be unacceptable! Madam Minister, I conclude by recalling that everyone has a right to health—is in the Constitution of the Republic—or do the algae deserve a different treatment, because they do not live in the major urban centres of our country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u141	It is the time of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, also of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the new Madeira hospital, are you in this budget? This is the question that the Madeirans and the Portuguese people want to see answered after the meeting between the two governments, the Republic and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u143	Your government didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u144	And they want this question to be answered, because over the past four years your Government has not been available to clarify the funding of 50% of Madeira's new hospital and to answer the numerous questions we have raised in this House, which, it seems, now, the Prime Minister finally wants to clarify and answer. That is why Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Members, that Madeira expects this time to be different; that this time the co-financing of this important infrastructure for Madeira is finally clarified and clarified; that the 50 % promised are indeed 50 % and not 50 % without VAT (value added tax) or subject to the deduction of the value of hospitals Nelio Mendonça and Marmeleiros;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u146	What about the other 50? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u147	... and that, already in the next State Budget, the 50 % promised by your Government are duly clarified so that Madeira can finally move forward with the new hospital and continue the work done in behalf of all Madeirans and port-saintenses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u148	Similarly to the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristóvão Norte now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, it is a pain of soul to see the degradation of the National Health Service and, in particular, to confront us with the inability and incompetence of an omission government, which looks and sees hospitals without money to pay to their suppliers, to purchase medicines, to repair failures of diagnostic means, only having money to pay wages. In 2018, the National Health Service had the worst ever result, with losses in the order of 850 million euros. But what reflection does this have on people's lives? We could say: "Well, services are being provided, there are no people in the corridors, there are no waiting lists, so there is only one accumulation of debt that does not reflect on the health care provided to users." Nothing more wrong, Mrs. Minister! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u150	What we see are two things: first, when you don't pay in time and time, what happens? In fact, those who have the chance to go there, don't go, because suppliers charge interest and these interest is a parcel that we are withdrawing from absolutely vital things for the National Health Service. But move on, Minister! For example, those who are in the established programs and who, when the maximum waiting times are not fulfilled, have to resort to the conventional hospitals, to private hospitals, taking the surgical valley into their hands, after having been waiting months, punching their faces at the door. Hit the face at the door, at many points in the country, from north to south. There's a lot of news from these guys who've been coming out. For example, in June, there was news about Lisbon hospitals — some of these hospitals have a very significant debt — in which it was said that doctors threatened to do no more surgeries. In the hospitals of the Algarve, for example, I have knowledge of cases of people who had to be sent to hospitals 500 or 600 km away, people in fragile situation, very old. But when they got there, they said to them: "No! They have no right to health here! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Adjourned health is denied health. Madam Minister, you have to make the commitment, and this commitment must be firm and unwavering: that all these people who are fragile, who have no financial means to run the private have access to dignity, have access to health! Having access to health, they are not trapped in this humanity trap, which is a government that ignores them and that no longer moves with this tragedy that we witness in the National Health Service in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u151	I want to talk about another point, to conclude, Minister. Six months ago, I confronted her with the case in the Algarve of people with already diagnosed cancer who had no access to therapy. At the time, they said it was a minor, residual thing that had no meaning. Yesterday, we were aware of the result of the Health Regulatory Entity. You know what they said, Minister? They said something very simple, they said that cases are likely to happen right now as serious as those that cost people their lives. What I want to know is what the Minister will do to solve them and who will assume responsibility for these heinous cases that have the brand of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u152	For a final request for clarification, Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Assembly of the Portuguese, but it is also the Assembly of the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u154	They're Portuguese too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u155	In the Azores we have a regional government unable to solve the health problems of the Azores. It's been like that for 23 years! There are 12 500 Azorians on the waiting list for surgery. In the largest Azores hospital, waiting time is five times higher than the national average. Unfortunately, we are in the first places of neonatal and perinatal mortality. In the Azores, you live on average less than three years than in the rest of the country. It is true that we are going to have regional elections in 2020 and it is imperative to change government, but the question before there is how the problem is solved. And that is the question for the Government of the Republic: how will it help the Azorians, since the regional government cannot solve this problem? The Azorians are being considered Portuguese second! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u156	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bruno Coimbra, I know the region that refers to and I know particularly well the Down Vouga Hospital Center, because I have already worked there. [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] So I'm like your party leader, I don't rush. I've been in this for many years, I know this reality well, it's not a reality that suddenly emerged. Unfortunately, this job of recuperation of offices, lack of staff, improvement of air conditioning also involves the administrations that work there. It is with them that we are working and it was with them that we managed to put more 58 doctors in this Hospital Center, plus 26 inmates, plus 91 nurses, plus 21 TSDT (higher technical diagnosis and therapy)... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And we don't whistle on the side, we always assume our responsibilities. Mr Paulo Marques, on the question of extending the oral health care network, of course, is one of our priorities. We will continue with this aspect of this policy. As I told them, it was very comforting to hear people who had never had access to a dentist, to hear health professionals who told us it had been very good to contribute so that others could smile, eat, have a normal job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Local Health Unit of Upper Minho has 37 more doctors, 14 interns and 80 nurses. In terms of the budgetary reinforcement of this unit, during the last legislation, 13 % grew. In Santo Tirso, there is a work in progress and has five months of execution. Mr Maló de Abreu, with regard to the new motherhood of Coimbra, as it is known, the only issue that prevents the government from moving forward with this project is the undefined location. We have already received the final studies on this subject and, therefore, the decision will now be taken. Regarding the question of orthopaedic service in CHUC (Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra ) and the conditions that have been photographed, the information we have is that it is a wing that has been disabled. With regard to the humanization of our hospitals, I recommended that you consult the one who was our commitment to all hospitals of the National Health Service, which was signed in the first days of September. Mrs Paula Santos, on the question of Garcia de Orta Hospital, what happened was that we expected that two pediatrician competitions, open to seven vacancies, would have been accepted. Unfortunately, this did not happen either, and so we have seen ourselves in the immediate vicinity of taking this measure, which, I insist again, is only temporary. Regarding Miranda do Corvo unit, there are new 13 AT, technical assistants, in the Regional Health Administration of the Centre. The unit was closed only during the morning and was reopened. With regard to the motherhood of Castelo Branco, as informed by the President of the Board of Directors, it was possible to find already two colleagues who will help solve the problem of this maternity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the hospital of Santarém, I would like to tell you that we were visiting the work somewhere in the first semester and that the work of the block will finally be ready in this month of December. If you want to go visit her with us, you're welcome. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, with regard to the Report of the Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the Health Budget Programme, will now be made available when the new form of this Mission Structure is also worked. With regard to the question of days of delay in the approval of medicines, I would like to tell you that there is a difference between Portugal and Germany: that Germany also produces medicines, and this could explain some of these questions. In any case, drug approvals are made by technical structures and the Ministry of Health did not interfere in technical aspects, as was well demonstrated with that which was the recommendation raised for the granting of the medicine, perhaps the most expensive so far purchased by the National Health Service, for some children, to which we did not raise any objection, precisely because there was a technical opinion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as time reductions and their costs are concerned, I would just like to highlight something that often seems to be forgotten, which is the fact that workers whose price/hour is higher in the National Health Service, who are doctors, have not had any time reduction and therefore there are no costs associated with this dimension. With regard to the "cling" of doctors to the National Health Service, they are disappointed, Mrs. Members, because doctors are not « tied» to the National Health Service, they struggle for a vacancy to do specialized training in the National Health Service. Our problem is to ensure more vacancies for specialized training. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u158	And what happens when they finish specialization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u159	This is what we are betting on, against the shadows that sometimes put around this theme, ensuring that we achieve an extraordinary contest, as recommended by this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u160	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u161	This year. As I was saying, this is what we are betting on, also ensuring that more doctors access specialized training and that this becomes a completely transparent process. As regards the evaluation of the Free Access and Movement of Users in SNS ( LAC), we have around 10 % users to choose to use free access and movement in the National Health Service. Your sixth question is so long, Mr President, that I do not really have time to answer it right now. I'm sorry. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, regarding access to mental health, concerns us - the issue of excessive use of psychotropic drugs and we are working in this regard with the Directorate-General for Health. Mr. André Ventura, regarding the Hospital Center of São João, recommended that he could see...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u162	The works? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u163	Yes, and as I was saying, I would recommend that you see the reports that the Management Board of the Hospital Centre of Saint John sends for social communication every week on Friday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u164	What about the works? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u165	Regarding the career of nurses, today it has three categories that did not exist one year ago, one of which recognizes the specialized nurses. Therefore, we are probably dissatisfied with the number of nurses we have in our National Health Service, it is an aspect for which international organizations have long recommended that the country make an effort towards its enlargement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u166	A long time ago, did you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u167	...so we will continue this path, as we have done with the admission of more 6000 nurses in the last four years. Mrs Sandra Pereira, the closure of the HGO did not happen before, not because of a political issue, but because, in fact, the doctors " held up the tips" until the last tender for the admission of young specialists failed. But I have something new to give them: in fact, it was possible to hire two new specialists, from those who have now finished...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u168	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u169	Exactly! So this is the good news and I am happy, because everyone is happy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding the issue of the construction of the new Algarve hospital, Mr Rui Cristina, it was not me who left PPP (public-private partnership) in the drawer, it was not this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] With regard to the new central hospital in Madeira, Mrs Sara Madruga, the national funding component of the payment of the new central hospital in Madeira will cover 50 % of the construction, equipment and supervision of the work under the State budget for 2020. Mr Cristovão Norte, I have already mentioned that we have 1, 4 billion additional euros and also 1, 4 million euros of reinforcements. As for surgical valleys, it is not the patients who knock on the door, on the contrary, often the patients who do not want to go to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u170	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u171	There is no humanity trap here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a period of intervention. To that end, you have the floor first by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Health and Mrs. Members of the Government: What is left of this debate? First: PSD is not exactly concerned with health, in fact, brought a number of cards, but the truth is that today it has not presented solutions nor even in its Election Program and much less in recent years. I can give you an example. I know you are. Members and Members of the PSD have some difficulty in returning to that period from 2011 to 2015 — I understand, it is of the worst memory for the Members. Ladies and gentlemen —... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u174	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u175	...so I'm going to a little more recent for a while. In past legislation, we presented a parliamentary assessment to review the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, ensuring them a decent career, accounting for all the time of service, etc. It was the PSD and CDS-PP that ultimately betrayed professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u176	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u177	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u178	Therefore, we know that now, when they do such a debate, it is not because of the professionals, it is not because of the SNS (National Health Service), it is not because of the health of people, it is because of something else that, for you and women, is a much higher value, which is the health of the business of some economic groups. I know it's a higher value, but it's not that value we're dealing with here. 'They do not count on us' — this is how Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite finished his first speech. We already knew that, actually, it wasn't great news. We do not have the PSD nor do we have the remaining right for the National Health Service, as is obvious. In fact, the PSD has already shown that it has no proposal, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative compete here a little bit to see who is able to first replace the National Health Service with any insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u179	It's done great!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u180	Great results you have had in many other countries, Mr President! Great results! Open... Well, then, there are those who argue in their program that the functions of the State, at the level of the National Health Service, should go to a status of mere residuality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u181	Guilt a PS! It's the PS that's in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u182	So, all you say here is actually a fight against the National Health Service, and that, to be very sincere, is not the debate we want. The most important and interesting debate is about solutions for the National Health Service, and that is what the Left Block wants to do, is that we are obviously interested in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u183	Talk to the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u184	That is why, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done from here, knowing that there has been a path that has been made, particularly with the Health Basics Act? Oh, my God! We must combat the subordination of the National Health Service and we must combat mismanagement, which begins in the government. It is that when we have a Ministry of Finance that does not allow contracts, when we have a Ministry of Finance that does not allow sufficient appropriations for the SNS, there is poor management. It has nothing to do with professionals, it does not have to do with administrations, it has to do with poor management, which comes from bad political options. If professionals are not hired in sufficient numbers, then much more will be spent on worse service. This was seen in the report of the social balance sheet of the 2018 Ministry of Health. It was 260 million euros in extraordinary hours and 105 million euros in jobs, when it gave to hire thousands of professionals, and it would be much better to hire these thousands of professionals to have a better National Health Service. But more is needed than that, and that is why the issue of office is important. It is that no limitations can be placed on hiring when it is necessary. Much more is needed than that, a multiannual investment plan is also needed. There is old technology in the National Health Service, obsolescence in the National Health Service and technology has to be renewed because, if not, what will happen is that, from year to year, you will spend more and more, with conventions, in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, users have worse service and the National Health Service spends much more with the private. Therefore, the solutions that really interest, and which certainly do not come from the right-wing benches, but that also does not matter to the debate, are those that the Block here leaves: to combat the subordination, by strengthening the budget of the National Health Service; to implement a multiannual investment plan; to exclusivity, associated with incentives for the establishment of professionals; and to review the status of the National Health Service, which is, in fact, provided for in the Health Bases Act, to ensure that the SNS has public management. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u185	The Bureau records Mrs Telma Guerreiro's registration for clarification, but Mr Moisés Ferreira cannot answer, because he does not have time. I don't know if the honourable Member still wants to ask for clarification...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u186	I intend, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u187	So please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u188	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, in the Health Committee, the PSD Member classified mental health as the "poor relative" of the national health system. Prof. Miguel Xavier, director of the national programme, agreed, but reminded the honourable Member that, recently, this theme was only "poor", now happily it is already "relative". [[PS deputy Maria Antónia Almeida Santos' laughs.]] This is clearly very symptomatic of what happened at the time the teams were extinct, including those of mental health programs, which we cannot forget. at this time, it slowed down, not to say that it was interrupted, all the work in the area of mental health and today, again, we realized here that mental health had no word on the part of the PSD. Today, I am pleased, yes, Mrs Minister, for being the first person to talk about mental health in this debate. He spoke of deinstitutionalization, a process that should pride us all, particularly the socialist governments; he took up by 2020 the implementation of the national plan for dementia; he spoke of the measures to promote well-being for all Portuguese and all Portuguese; and he committed himself to the start of the community mental health teams, in response to a question raised here by our colleague Moses Ferreira, our colleague Moses Ferreira. In conclusion, and because Mr Moses will not have time to answer, I just meant, continuing with the words of Prof. Miguel Xavier, that mental health at the moment is a relative who wants stable solutions and who wants to be included in the media and political agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we thank you very much for helping us, putting this theme as a media theme. And because on the political agenda of the Socialist Party this issue is a priority, today, we have come out of here confident, for what the Minister told us and brought us. We, as a parliamentary group, are confident and the challenge I leave to the Left Block is that it clearly accompanies us and maintains its focus in the area of mental health promotion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u189	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u190	Mr President, Mrs Telma Guerreiro, first of all, fled her mouth to the truth when she said "our Mr Moses Ferreira". In fact, you were right, it is your Mr. Moses Ferreira. He has fled his mouth to the truth — we understand — but, as he cannot answer me, I will not go on either. Ms. Minister, I would like to make a point: whoever left this PPP in the drawer was the famous government of Eng. José Socrates and not the PSD government. Let me finish and tell you just this: the nurses are so well that they have just announced that they will make a new fight, using crowdfunding. I don't know if you're going to see how they get, how they don't get, because that's what's important. Solving nurses' problems, that's to forget. Do you know what is the greatest symbol of this government, Minister? That's what's here! [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a photocopy of a document.]] He's a 90-year-old man whose consultation was postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u191	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. He's a 90-year-old man whose consultation went from 2020 to 2021!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u193	It's a good sign to have reached 90!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u194	It is the greatest symbol of this government's medical misfortune!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u195	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last week, I was quite surprised when I heard in the TSF Mr. President of the PS, Carlos César — former Member Carlos César — that something urgent about the degradation of the SNS was being done. I even went to the dictionary to be sure, and I checked that « degradation» means « act of deterioration ». Mr. President of the PS is concerned about what happened with the deterioration of the SNS. It says « or the government solves this situation with the reversal of the trend of SNS degradation, or it will be complicated to justify itself to the Portuguese ». I was thinking about what would have happened to President Carlos César, former Member, that, having left the Hemicycle, change such ideas, because while he was here he was a great defender of the politics of this government. So I remembered that he, perhaps, had gone to talk to those friends, remember? Oh, my God! — whom he has told us several times here in Parliament in the past Parliament. Do You Remember? They were Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, João, grandfather of André and Hugo. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] I thought maybe Dr. Carlos César was going to talk to them. And then I also went to talk to them to see what was going on. The Nuno, who had come out of a poverty situation, feels, today, very poor, because he needs to make an ophthalmology consultation but only 52% of these consultations are carried out within the time of response. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Therefore, Nuno joined the 709,000 Portuguese who, by the end of 2018, were still waiting for a consultation, at that time, more than one year ago. Mariana — do you remember Mariana? — which earned the national minimum wage — did not gain much, said Dr. Carlos César,, needs a surgery, which cannot be marked in the National Health Service. And therefore joins the other 245 000 users of the SNS who are waiting for marking. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] She even tried to mark through the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery ), something she had heard about, but it happens that, as this government has, more than a year ago, bills late to pay to private and social hospitals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u198	... cannot solve the situation there either. Augusta... Now Augusta, said Dr. Carlos César, had two children—who are now in the 7th. o and no 10. the years, because, however, we changed from year to year—and they were all very happy because of social passes. It's true! Augusta lives in Almada and has given much use to social passes, since her son, which is in 7. the year, she has asthma and she tried to go to the pediatric emergency at Garcia de Orta Hospital and was closed. Then, he caught a train and two buses, an hour and a half of his trip to Santa Maria, whose urgency is congested.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u199	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u200	Of course, on the way back, having to catch two buses and a train, they arrived late home and the day after Augusta was down for family assistance and he could not go to work. John, as Mr. Carlos César said, at the time, was going to study inwards. It's true! He went to study at the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, in a higher degree. He was very happy, but had a small accident with a tractor, something machined, and asked for an ambulance to INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ). Well, what happened? As the Hospital of São Teotónio, which serves the Viseu area, has no monkeys, ambulances are stopped at the hospital door waiting for the patients to leave. Therefore, John's wretched man has been waiting for hours for an ambulance and is no longer so happy to have gone inside. André's grandfather is a more complicated case because, unfortunately, he is with a dementia, which is something that, as we know, could happen to many Portuguese people. Since he has a low pension, he does not get a place in a private residence, but his grandson, André, went looking for a solution. What's going on? They live in the Alentejo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u201	Ah! I'll see you soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u202	... and André recalled that in 2017 the government had announced two pilot care projects continued in the Alentejo. He's been looking for them, but these are all on paper. So André has a big problem to solve, because he doesn't know what to do to grandpa in this situation. Finally, we have Hugo. Hugo, remember — Dr. Carlos César explained to us — he had mounted a startup.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u203	Who missed Carlos César and killed them now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u204	Now, it's full of sleeping problems and you even thought it was because of the company. But, after all, it has sleep apnea. As Hugo lives in Gaia, he went to the hospital in Gaia / Espinho, to try to arrange a consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u205	Whoa, where he's been!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u206	What's the matter? It's none! He arranged a consultation, it was spectacular; he even received the letter! The question is that he was there on October 21, 2019 and the consultation is marked on September 23, 2020! So if he had any other solution, I assure you he wouldn't wait a year without sleeping. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the first consultation could be held where there is capacity, whether in the public, private or social; if ADSE was extended to all people, regardless of their work link,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u207	Ah! I told you what was coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u208	It's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u209	... for example, workers on behalf of another or even on their own account; if the SNS were the target of policies promoting efficiency and autonomy of the hiring, following these efficiency policies, as suggested by the law triggered by the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u210	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if the SNS were the target of policies promoting the efficiency and autonomy of the contract, following these efficiency policies, as suggested by Law No. 87 / 2019; if funding was made by results and gains of health, I am sure, with all this that the CDS proposes, that President Carlos César would now again trust the PS government and its friends and all of us, citizens—which is the most important thing...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u212	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u213	I'm done now, Mr. President. He said that, with all this proposed by the CDS, citizens could have access to health care in time and time, that the State does not have to provide, but has an obligation to guarantee. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u214	It's not to invest in the SNS, it's to send to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u215	Mrs Deputy, you have signed up to request clarification from a Member. Having no time to answer, I think that the request for clarification can be turned into intervention. [[Pause.]] Since there is no opposition, Mr José Rui Cruz has the floor for this purpose of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u216	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: After attending here this great journey of the CDS through the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u217	Thanks to Dr. Carlos César!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u218	...I dare say that you will have the opportunity to add some more episodes to this long journey of persecution to former Deputy Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u219	And add some friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u220	You can also add some ideas, which I will give you and which certainly did not have the opportunity to mention. The Ministry of Health recently signed protocols for the renewal of ambulances affected by medical emergency posts — the honourable Member has forgotten to mention — which may be used to transport some of the people who mentioned the emergencies, in particular, from the Viseu hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This was done a few days ago for 75 ambulances. And between 2018 and 2021 more than 200 ambulances will be renewed because this protocol involves more than EUR 3, EUR 5 million aimed at improving the operational conditions of the Integrated Medical Emergency System and strengthening its capacity to respond to aid applications received through the European emergency number 112. The CDS has been distracted, not aware of this good news! Currently, INEM has established 340 medical emergency posts, which make these ambulances present a need for renewal, as I mentioned above. Gradually, we will, until 2021, renew 240 of these ambulances. Another very important measure for the interior and that Mrs Deputy, in this course for the country, has forgotten to mention—and on which she will no longer have an opportunity to answer me, because she has wasted her time—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u221	If you give me time, I'll answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u222	... but for which it is important to clarify the country, it concerns the participation by the SNS of thermal treatments. The former PSD/CDS-PP government suspended the participation of medical treatments in thermal establishments in 2011, limiting the access of the most deprived populations to these treatments—it has forgotten to pass through the thermal baths, in its return to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u223	Don't! I'd love to go to the thermals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u224	In the previous legislation, the PS government resumed the participation of these treatments through a portal published in 2018. The participations cover several diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, rhinitis, asthma, diabetes, anemia or venous failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to remind the honourable Member that we can state that this measure has produced a double positive result, either from the health point of view of the users of the National Health Service, or also for the territories and local economies, where most of the thermal establishments are, by the way, mostly territories within the country, being also an important measure of territorial cohesion. It was just to add to your script, Your Honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u225	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira, of the Free, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u226	Mr President, Minister : It is obvious that the National Health Service is not necessarily good. It is obvious that there are hours and hours of waiting every day in hospitals. It's obvious that we've been waiting for months, months, months in which we're waiting for the appointment of consultations. It is obvious that real budgetary investment is needed there. But it is also obvious that if it is not great and if there are immense individuals to go there, it is because the National Health Service is absolutely fundamental. And if it is absolutely fundamental for citizens, it is ironic that some parties still think it is time to invest in an area that is still one of the only ones that gives some courage and some security. I would, of course, like to strengthen the need to resolve the successive closures of the emergencies of the Garcia de Orta Hospital and also mention the absence of radiology services during the night in most central hospitals. I would also like to know whether or not there is an objective and whether there is a budget for the hiring of psychologists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u227	Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The left likes to attribute the guilt of all evils to the PSD/CDS government, which has already abandoned power four years ago. But it must be remembered that in the last 25 years, 18 of these years have been ruled by the Socialist Party, including the last four. [[PSD applause.]] Take your responsibility! The Socialist Party wanted to draw attention to the importance of primary care in this debate — it did very well! — having called attention to the creation of 100 USF (family health units). Do you know how many USF PSD/CDS government created? It created 129, more than the 100 created by the PS government. The PS drew attention to the assignment of a family doctor to users who did not. Do you know how many users had a family doctor in the time of the PSD government / CDS? 800,000, twice the 400,000 you've attributed! The responsibility of the SNS state is that of the Socialist Party and of all who support the governments of the Socialist Party. Take your responsibilities! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u229	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Health. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two names to tell you: Matilde and Natalia. They are two children who can tell success stories of the National Health Service, the one who will not give up improving, even though some think that less state better state and what remains that comes to us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will continue to defend the National Health Service and work for it. We are at the beginning of a legislature, at the beginning of four years of much work to modernize the SNS, to strengthen investment in the SNS, to improve the working conditions of health professionals and to improve the health of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Álvaro Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u231	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u233	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u234	Mr President, I am sorry, but I was registered to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u235	Madam Member, that is not the information I have, but I admit it is wrong. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u236	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State: We will all agree that it is necessary to provide the best health care to our fellow citizens. And I want to include even the right-wing benches, despite what we heard today, because, in fact, the PSD, with this interpellation, wanted to give the idea of chaos, to forget the chaos we have experienced during its previous governance, and that is not serious, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We must definitely place the citizen at the heart of public policies, and therefore of all responsibility to contribute to improving a service that is desired by all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As the Minister said, this service is loved by all Portuguese, because the National Health Service is still the best national health service we all know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that this is not a proclaiming issue. Just talk to Portuguese people who have been abroad and have had to use other national health services, just talk to foreigners who go to our National Health Service and just talk to all Portuguese people who use it daily to see it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not deny the problems of the SNS, sirs. Members, but it is not enough to resort to a number of cases, certainly all of them important and to which we all have an obligation to present solutions to help solve them. Those who manage have daily problems, of course, but all of us in the Assembly of the Republic have a duty to contribute to solutions. We must all do this daily and we do not simply have a destructive attitude of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We, the Socialist Party, are here to defend the National Health Service, because we know that this is the best way for Portuguese people, who better meet and ensure universal health care and tend to be free of charge, that better meet the sustainability of the National Health Service, which so promoter of cohesion must be. Nor can we confuse the tree with the forest — Portuguese know that well. Therefore, we do not admit that we are attempting to make cases on the spot the complete X-ray of the National Health Service. We are here to defend it, and the Government has already put forward measures for this and the Socialist Party too. The Basics Law is a way, but daily we have to carry it out. This reveals the difference with the past, in which there were cuts and more cuts: budget cuts, cuts in the number of doctors, cuts in the number of nurses. And now we have what? We have another 15 000 professionals working in the National Health Service. It was this commitment that the Minister here today made and was that commitment that Mr. Prime Minister left us yesterday, i.e. that priority is the National Health Service, and this will be reflected in the next State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can only say that this is the way, the best way to serve Portuguese: investment in more professionals, so that we can have more professionals motivated, and better service for all Portuguese, not only those who are served by large hospitals, but also those who are served within the country by small units and health centers, in primary care, that we have talked about so much and that it is something to develop. With the new specialties that the Minister has announced, we have no doubt that this is the way. Mrs. Minister, all experts say that it is in prevention that we have to bet to solve the problems of the National Health Service. If we do not, in fact, the problems will remain. I am sure that this attention will be given by the current government, and here we will be to help contribute to the provision of the best health care to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u237	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the conclusion of this debate. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ms. Minister of Health and other members of the Government : This appeal to the Government, required by the PSD, made it clear that the governance of the Socialist Party caused serious damage to the National Health Service. in this debate, we presented some of the many signs of degradation of the SNS, these signs that allow us to conclude that the National Health Service is worse today than when the previous socialist government took possession, in 2015, and that the degradation of health services has been accentuated in the recent past. Until the October elections this year, the Government and the Socialist Party have rejected the problems of the SNS, but recently they have changed their attitude. They now recognize that there are problems, but they try to get the idea that the problems of the SNS always existed and that the socialist government does not have much responsibility for this degradation of health to unbearable levels. This mistification strategy has three aspects. Firstly, the Government recognises the financial problems, admitting that there is subordination of the SNS, but suggesting that this is an old problem and that will be resolved in the next State budget. The key phrase has been: « We are working, we are working ». They've been in government for four years, but now they're working! Is that what you're talking about? The subordination of the SNS is in fact a problem that already comes from previous socialist governments, but what this government does not say is that the financial problem of the SNS has never been as serious as it is now. The loss of SNS, EUR 848 million in 2018, is the biggest ever. Not even in the years of the PS government led by José Socrates we had as much damage as this one. In 2010 it walked close to 800 million euros, but it didn't get there. The worsening of the deficit in the first ten months of 2019, which was known two days ago, makes the worst fear for this year. At this rate it is possible that the damage to the SNS will amount to about EUR 1000 million. EUR 1 billion is not a small problem that will be solved by more than 1 % or 2 % in the State budget for next year. EUR 1 billion of deficit, with a liability to suppliers of more than EUR 3 billion, translates a financial imbalance similar to what existed when the troika was called by the Socialist Party in 2011. The second aspect of the Government's mistification strategy is to convince us that the SNS will not be so bad because there are a few more thousands of consultations and surgeries. What the Government does not say is that this increase of thousands of surgeries and consultations represents only a 1 % increase per year. What the Government does not say, but knows, is that demographic and technological developments cause a steady increase in the population's health needs, which in Portugal is estimated at about 4 to 5 % per year. When health services increase their response by 1 % per year, but the needs of the population grow by 4 % or 5 % per year, this means that every year Portuguese loses 3% of access to health care. It's 3 % per year when they get worse. [[PSD applause.]] In four years of socialist government, this means a 12 % loss of access, and that is what explains the chaos in health services, which is clear to all right now. The third and final aspect of the Government's mistification strategy is to try to convince us that there is an effective strengthening of the human resources of the SNS. They advance with numbers of thousands of hired professionals, numbers that are changing every day, but do not say what impact this contract has on the effective working capacity available in health services. In this regard, let me quote a 2018 report from the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory: « The nominal increase of nurses, about 3000, and senior technicians (...) did not reflect the actual increase in work». And later on, he says: « These data seem to translate the need to strengthen the rate of recruitment of all professional groups, except for doctors, into a context of increasing demand for care». It is true that, after the publication of this study, there were more contracts, but it is also true that professionals with individual employment contracts saw the changed working hours for 35 hours per week, exacerbating the problem. currently, in terms of working capacity, the available human resources of the SNS, with the exception of doctors, are less than those that existed when the socialist government took possession. What these specialists at the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems remind us is that the ability to hire SNS did not increase the response capacity. And the government and the Minister of Health know that, until Dr. Marta Temido was one of the authors of the study I quoted. [[PSD applause.]] The problem is that the Minister of Health does not manage the SNS. The Minister of Health came here today full of good intentions, full of willingness to work—I do not doubt that she has! — but the problem is that, in the Socialist Government, whoever runs the SNS is the Minister of Finance, through the State budget. It is from the State budget that results in the subordination of the SNS and the lack of human resources. It is from the State budget that results in the limitations on recruitment and the lack of professionals. After four budgets of the socialist state that have degraded the SNS, the health of the Portuguese requires the government to change course.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u239	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u240	I'm done now, Mr. President. The fifth budget of the Socialist State must be different. The Government must move from words to acts and present a State Budget that effectively contributes to a better National Health Service. For the sake of Portugal and the health of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u241	You have the floor to close this debate, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2020, which comes here, will mark the beginning of a new political cycle. It will be a cycle of consolidation and recovery of the country and of strengthening investment in the quality of public services, in which the commitment to the National Health Service, a National Health Service, which best responds to the needs of the population, was clearly assumed in terms of Government Program. It is worth stressing that, as in all developed countries, government action in the area of health, as we all agree, will continue to face two major challenges: demand pressure, the result of demographic and epidemiological changes and a more developed and clarified society, and increasing costs, resulting from increased prices of production factors and technological innovation. It is therefore, in this context, in view of our political options, assumed, in particular, in the new Health Bases Act, that we will focus our action on measures aimed at people, to develop around three vertices: qualification of access, motivation of health professionals and investment in the National Health Service network. Today, I highlight only the qualification of access and also only in two or three dimensions. The qualification of access in the areas of the provision of adequate care in volume, time and quality is the first priority of government action. I stress that between 2015 and 2018 the number of applications registered for first hospital specialty consultation by the reference system « Time and Time Consultation » and the number of applications entered in the surgical waiting list increased by 5 % and 7 % respectively. In addition, the number of citizens registered in the National Register of Users increased by about 200,000 users between 2015 and 2019. the increase in the volume of demand for health care is the well-known multimorbidities, which the National Health Survey has recently revealed, when it says that more than half of the Portuguese live with at least one chronic disease. All these factors generated the need for more care, but especially generated the need for better integration of care and development of new models of organization of care activity. Access qualification will touch all these dimensions, as it will touch all these dimensions the absolute necessity of being more efficient and productive in the National Health Service. Therefore, in 2020, the Government will continue to invest in strengthening the coverage and productive capacity of primary health care through the allocation of family health teams to more Portuguese; in the creation of new family health units; in the extension of oral health responses in collaboration with municipalities; in the increase of the provision of psychological care and nutrition in each group of health centres; in the creation of community mental health teams by the Regional Health Administration; and, at the level of hospital care, in the improvement of access to the planned activity, in particular to the first consultations and to the surgical activity; in the offer of hours of care scheduled for Saturday and on schedule with marked time, in addition to the conduct of decentralized consultations and the strengthening of home hospitalization. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the new Health Bases Act, recently approved, was undoubtedly a good way to sign the 40 years of the National Health Service, insofar as it is a law that strengthens and modernizes the National Health Service and focuses on health policy in people. But, despite the relevance of the journey and its conquests, the most important way to commemorate 40. the anniversary of the National Health Service will actually prepare it for the future. However, the ability to overcome the challenges that the SNS faces today involves the commitment of all actors. in the same way that in order to adopt a new law of health bases it was essential the ability to work together, to generate understanding, to be persistent, to improve the quality of access, to strengthen the pride and brightness of health professionals, to plan and invest rigorously will require dialogue and transparency on what moves us. It is important to remove veils that cover strictly personal logic, strictly corporate, and conflicts of interest. We will probably not agree, everyone, above all, but it is certainly very much what unites us. The future of the National Health Service, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not, for us, in the Ministry of Health, a distant place. It passes through each of us, and if it is true that the year 2019 is an important year, a step of a journey that started four decades ago, it will be as relevant as we know how to concentrate essentially. For us, the unequivocal statement of a simple idea is at stake: that the SNS is not only a health care provider. It is an instrument to combat inequalities and to strengthen social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the generous idea that António Arnaut spoke to us, referring to the genesis of the National Health Service, has natural imperfections. But it is for men and women today that it is important not to give up on improving. And we won't give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u243	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the inquiry debate to the Government on the health situation in Portugal. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda, with a thematic debate required by the CFP Parliamentary Group on support for the arts. Before we close our work, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to account for several legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following bills: No 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Seventy-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, in order to clarify that the court may determine the alternate residence of the child with each parent where such corresponds to the best interest of the child, which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of the alternative residence of minors in the event of divorce of judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 114 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Civil Code, providing for the alternative residence regime of the child in regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 116 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes measures to promote ecological design and to increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 119 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the guarantee period for the sale of mobile consumer goods ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April 2003 ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant, which falls to 3. the Commission ; point 124 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revokes the residence authorisation programme for investment activity and establishes the need for an assessment of its impact ( proceeds from the seventh amendment of Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 125 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Terminates the legal deadlines for the proposed investigation of paternity and maternity ( the Septuagint first amendment to the Civil Code ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; and No 126 / XIV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following draft resolutions: No 91 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Allocation of risk allowance to security forces professionals, which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 92 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the sustainability of ADSE, which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 9. the Commission ; No 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government make public the list of buildings where public services are provided containing asbestos and the complete schedule for removal, which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission ; No 98 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the sustainability of the olive tree in sebe, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 103 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the allocation ratio and the urgent recruitment of operational assistants and technical assistants necessary for the operation of ungrouped groups and schools, which falls to 8. the Commission ; point 104 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Effective promotion of collective transport throughout the national territory, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 107 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government study and develop conditions for increased deductions of transport charges to taxpayers resident in the territories of the interior, which falls to 5. the Commission ; point 108 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the quality of the universal public postal service, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 109 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to take measures to eliminate any remaining constraints in the processing of pensions, which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 110 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the framework of the strategy to be presented to the European Union with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, the introduction of a line making asbestos removal operations eligible in public buildings down to 11. the Commission in connection with the 4. a and 6. a Commission ; No 115 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a Rural World Consultative Council, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 116 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By modernizing and electrifying the entire Alentejo Line and reactivating the Aljustrel Railway Branch, which drops to 6. the Commission ; point 117 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensure access for all elderly persons to one of geriatric residences, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 118 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of the status of a rapid wear occupation and the risk allowance to the security forces, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 119 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By strengthening investment and valuing security forces, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 120 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take the defence measures of the river Tejo, which falls to 11. the Commission ; and No 121 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225, which falls to 6. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 141 / 2019 of 19 September establishing the special career regime of sectoral inspections, and Draft Deliberation No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the international parliamentary organizations in the XIV Legislation. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-28.u245	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: in the first item, a thematic debate, required by the CFP Parliamentary Group, on support for the arts; a second point is followed, to which no discussion time has been allocated, which is contained in the Draft of Deliberation No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the international parliamentary organizations in the XIV legislature ; in the end, there will be legislative votes. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 51 minutes.]]
