ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. We shall begin our plenary session, for what I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Pedro Alves, to give us an account of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1081 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional regime for the National Health Service under the Law of Commitments and Late Payments ( Act No 8 / 2012, of 21 February ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1082 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates Family Health Units from Model C — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August 2007 establishing the legal regime for the organization and operation of family health units ( USF ) and the incentive scheme to assign to all elements that constitute them, as well as the remuneration to be attributed to elements that integrate the Model B USFs which fall to 9. the Commission, 1083 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Multi-annual investment programming law for SNS establishments, which falls to 5. the Commission, with connection to 9. the Commission, and 1084 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August, in order to confer on environmental health technicians competences for the collection of samples of water and biofilms in the field of epidemiological research ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ), which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u3	Mrs. Members, the first point on our agenda today corresponds to an up-to-date debate on the General Deposit Box required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the proposed party opens the debate, i.e. the CDS-PP. Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate today, but it is also a debate of need and responsibility. It is a current debate, because, again, the country is called upon to discuss the situation of the General Deposit Box ; it is current, because Portuguese continue to demand the responsibilities they think must be assigned ; and it is also current, because the Government has been very absent in all matters related to the General Deposit Box. But as I said, it is also a debate of necessity: the need to clarify many facts, the need to clear up many responsibilities and the need to determine many consequences. Finally, it is also a debate in this context to know why the inequalities that have existed, and there are, in the General Deposit Box, why there have been approved credits and renewal of these same credits, without the proper approval process having complied with the rules in force. Credits approved and renewal of these credits, despite negative opinions; credits and renewal of approved appropriations, without assessment of the feasibility of the projects on their base; credits and renewal of approved credits, without the proper provision of guarantees. It is also an important debate, because there are still inequalities caused by administrations that have not only fulfilled all the obligations in relation to the operations they have approved, as they have still received bonuses for their actions; because there is still a need to clarify the responsibilities of taking power in a private bank leveraged by the public bank and made by some, without realizing why they were chosen by the public bank to take power in a private bank; because there is also the need to clarify the evident promiscuity between the political agenda of a particular government, of the Government of José Socrates, and those that were the most catastrophic projects of the General Deposit Box. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We remember very well the openings; we remember very well the first stones; we remember very well those who were in those openings and those first stones and, without surprise, we find them now on the list of those who caused the greatest damage to the Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u6	This is also a debate of responsibility, from the point of view of Parliament's responsibility. We must be the first to respond to the Portuguese because of the responsibility we also have as their representatives. And there the CDS makes it very clear: together with the PSD, we were the first to demand an audit of the General Deposit Box and all these processes that generated the need for recapitalization of the public bank with money from the Portuguese taxpayers. We have, together with the PSD, been the ones that we may require the existence of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to ascertain facts, responsibilities and allow for the allocation of consequences. We introduced a bill to amend the Banking Seal Act and we were in that majority who formed to approve an amendment to the Banking Seal Act, so that from there to the front, what was not known could be and there would be greater transparency. And today we are marking this debate because we believe that the issue can only be discussed here in Parliament. But responsibility is also for supervisors, who once again failed and once again were inconsequential in their activity. It is also the responsibility of justice, which at this time has to have a great deal of attention to avoid prescribing processes which would incomprehensiblely prescribe in the eyes of all Portuguese. But it is also the responsibility of the government, a government that, in relation to the Box, does not know, does not want to know and does not let it know. The government does not know, strangely, because being the most left-wing government of our democracy is the government that has most exempted itself from playing the role of shareholder of the public bank, of the state bank. Strange contradiction! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u7	That's actually wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u8	He doesn't want to know why he started by denying the audit. He took the countergost audit, he had been months without ordering the General Deposit Box to do this audit and when the audit went on to report that he would not want to know about its results.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u10	But it's also a government that doesn't let it know. When the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry asked for information, it denied Parliament information; when Parliament appealed to the courts, and it was right, the Government appealed against Parliament and the courts, denying the information that they asked and others confirmed as right. But in this role, you have had accomplices within this Parliament and this cannot fail to be pointed out. When the Government no longer had resources to do, the Left Block, the PCP and the PS sought to close the Inquiry Committee so that the courts could not be met and this Parliament could not know what is now being known. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the responsibility of the government is great and serious. The government is responsible for the distance it has always kept from the public bank at such a decisive time and from such serious matters. The Government is responsible for the total lack of appearance in the defence of taxpayers, who are called to pay 'holes' of the responsibility of the State and do not see sufficient force in their Government to demand the responsibilities to be assigned. The government is responsible for failing to comply with the commitment it made in the first months of government, to review the supervisory legislation, and is responsible for keeping everything as it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u12	I ask you to conclude, Mr President, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u13	I will finish, Mr. President. In conclusion, the Government chose the path of alienation and concealment. The consequence is that the facts continue to be clear, the perpetrators continue to identify and the consequences continue to be attributed. It would have been the government's choice, but it was a wrong choice. On the contrary, the choice should have been that of an affirmative government in the role of the General Deposit Box, leading in the clearance of responsibilities and above all implacable in the demand for consequences. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u14	I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno, to congratulate the members of the Government present on their bench. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important here to remember that it was not today that this government began to look at the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u16	Not yet today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u17	contrary to some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not today that this Government took the measures it considered necessary to safeguard and strengthen the public bank. It was not today that this Government gave instructions to the Administration of the Box for a special audit of management and credits granted between 2000 and 2015. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It was a lot longer, sirs. Members, who have done what no other government has done in the last 20 years: eight finance ministers and seven governments have never done so, not even during the adjustment programme, when the government then decided to inject EUR 1650 million into the public bank. The CDS, which today calls for this debate, was part of that government, but would not have asked what was at the root of the capital losses in Caixa. If he did, he had no answer. [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] The General Deposit Box was kept subcapitalized, with an unrealistic business plan that no one questioned. As we know, however, for the CDS, the bank is synonymous with beach. [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] Contrary to the past, this Government has recapitalised the Box under market conditions and, in parallel, has defined a new corporate governance model, strengthened internal control and risk assessment mechanisms and increased transparency in the assessment and remuneration of its managers. [[PSD protests.]] But, above all, the government wanted to know the origin of the losses. I had the responsibility and the duty to do. To this end, we have commissioned the Administration of the Box to conduct an independent audit and to deliver it to the Bank of Portugal, the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and the competent authorities. The government's decision was taken seriously, not an exercise of populist voyeurism. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u18	They do not count on us to violate duties of secret or to embark on a campaign that harms the bank, which is of all Portuguese, and puts it at a disadvantage against the competitors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is not the first time that there is this attempt, but they will count on our determination to safeguard the bank that not everyone wants to be public. The Government has maintained close and regular monitoring of the entire proceedings as the voice of the shareholder, but has neither requested nor had access to information reserved for the administration and supervisors nor to information subject to secrecy. It is important to understand who is responsible for doing what. The clearance of criminal responsibilities lies with the courts and therefore we have long been instructing the administration of the General Deposit Box to refer the report to the Attorney-General of the Republic. Deployment of counter-ordering responsibilities rests with Banco de Portugal. For this reason, we also instruct the administration of the CGD to refer the audit report to the supervisor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u19	And what's the clearance that's up to us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u20	After requesting the administration of the CGD and my guidance to request this audit, the supervisor also considered that it would exorbate its powers and powers. the Government must provide strategic guidance to the CGD in order to act in defence of the interests of the company and taxpayers. That is why the Government instructed the Administration of the Box to establish civil responsibilities and protect the estate of the public bank and its shareholder. [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] The Government has also indicated that the Fund should be an assistant in the case with the Attorney-General of the Republic in order to have an active participation and closely monitor the ongoing investigation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We are focused on the present and future of the Caixa, through close monitoring of the implementation of the strategic plan to ensure that the Caixa performs its function of financing the Portuguese economy. The Government has received a bank at risk of financial collapse. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The Box is now properly capitalized, robust and capable of financing the economy. Today, the Box provides profit and the Portuguese and companies have recovered confidence in a bank that is of all and so must continue. This Government will continue to fulfil its duty towards the Portuguese, with determination and competence, in the best interests of Box and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u21	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the General Deposit Box. And in order to do so, we do not even need to resort to the leak of information that has motivated the CDS to mark this debate, use the information that is already public and we discuss without surprise. We started with the megalomanian adventure in Spain: in three years the credits granted increased 250 % and in 2015 the losses were up to EUR 500 million. We ask who were responsible and where they are now: Carlos Costa was administrator of Caixa, but was led to the Governor of Banco Portugal, and Faria de Oliveira, former PSD minister, was promoted to the President of Caixa and is now President of the Portuguese Banking Association. We also speak of Vale do Lobo and denounce the irresponsibility of a real estate adventure in which the Box entered without justification or guarantees. We speak of Armando Vara, former PS Minister, who all indicates being the principal responsible for this operation. But let us not stop wondering where the rest of the administration was—where we also found CDS figures like Celeste Cardona— which allowed successive restructurings and debt losses to shareholders of Vale do Lobo. And now, we want to know who these shareholders are: Rui Horta and Costa, for example, until a long time ago he was administrator of the privatized CTTs; Luís Horta and Costa and Hélder Bataglia, partners of the Escom, the same company that bought the submarines in the times of Santana and Gates and that distributed through the clan the commission paid by the German builders. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We are talking about the Summit and the decisions that destroyed it after its privatisation. We wonder why the Box, under the command of Santos Ferreira, was involved in an actionist war between Manuel Fino and Teixeira Duarte and why Faria de Oliveira agreed to buy the shares of Fino at a discount. But let's go further: we want to know what was the involvement of the Box in the wars of the BCP, which opposed Jardim Gonçalves to the men of « Compromise Portugal », among them Joe Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u23	"Compromisso Portugal"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u24	And since we're making accounts in the past, let's remember when Bagão Félix went to the Box to look for the Pension Fund to meet the goals of the deficit. We also assess how much you lost the public bank with the sale of Fidelity, one third of all insurances from Portugal, already in the Government of Passos and Portas. We want to know everything! We're not hiding anything! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But we are aware that the past of Caixa is Socrates and is Vara, but it is also Holy Spirit and BCP, it is PSD and it is CDS, it is construction and it is real estate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The past of the Box is the past of the Portuguese economy, the past of the Box is the rotating door between business and politics that we have always denounced!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u25	All right, all right! Don't take it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is committed to knowing what happened, because we believe that the institution is greater than the political and party interests that dominated it in the past. There's nothing we'd rather not tell! And we're not here to ship anyone! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let's try it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we forced the cash management to submit their income statement to the Constitutional Court, even if this caused the resignation of those managers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We want to make this debate seriously and consequently,... [[PSD protests.]] ...but we know that, on many occasions, the Box's problems have been transformed into a weapon of shooting. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, many of the criticisms they make in the past of Caixa, the Socialist Party, Socrates and Armando Vara are true and fair, but the opportunism and leviancy with which they chose to see only a few pages of this dossier are also in themselves a form of political instrumentation. It is opportunism, because you have hidden your responsibilities in this process. Why just now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Why is it that only now has the bug of transparency bit you? [[Congratulations from BE and the honourable Member who did not register Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Why did you never ask for an audit, sir? Ladies and gentlemen? Why, when they recapitalized the Box, didn't they want to know about the inequalities and their perpetrators? But it's light, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because you didn't look at the means. The Commission has been in operation for one year and it is not true that it has not reached conclusions. The Block concluded that the Box favored the BCP, that the Box obeyed the political pressures of the Socialist Party and that it was poorly capitalized in 2012. But the PSD and the CDS needed no conclusions from the Commission so that one more year could be kept in operation, waiting for an audit that we anticipated would not be sent by secret problems of justice. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The goal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't the information, it was the maneuver: or they kept the Box under pressure from an inquiry during half a legislature...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u27	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua has already exceeded her time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u28	Mr President, I call for due tolerance, taking into account the difficult conditions under which I am making this speech. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the aim was not the information, it was the maneuver: either they kept the Box under pressure from the inquiry during half of the legislature or they could spend the rest of the time saying that transparency was blocked by the majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u29	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u30	It was all a trick!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u31	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u32	And they never wanted to know about bullying and the public impact on the General Deposit Box. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that the PSD goal was to privatize Box and we well know the contempt they have for the public property of Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u33	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u34	Finally, I would like to say that the Left Block wants to know everything that has happened. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u35	Before, I didn't want to, and now, you want to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u36	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u37	Mr President, I do not want to leave here without the PSD and CDS Members knowing that, as in the past, we will do everything to get this audit to the Assembly of the Republic and that this House of the Republic can seriously discuss what happened in the Box, protecting the public bank, which is what the PSD does not want to do. [[Congratulations from BE and the honourable Member who did not register Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u38	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u39	I bet no one's gonna make noise now! Now take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u40	I would ask the honourable Member to begin his speech only when he understands that he has the conditions to do so. I would also like to ask the honourable Members. Members of the various benches which allow Mr António Leitão Amaro to begin his intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we learned this week about the audit of the General Deposit Box is both regrettable and serious. Sad and serious, yes, are the practices of ruinous credit management, of political interference in the Box, confirmed by the audit now partially revealed. Today, we know that it was essentially between 2005 and 2010 that the Box was struck by a ruinous credit management, by a promiscuity and political interference and a very bad allocation of resources, which cost the Portuguese economy and taxpayers a lot. But also regrettable and very serious was the covering up of those practices, that the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u43	...the PS, the PCP and the Left Block did along this legislature. [[PSD applause.]] We do not forget when, on June 22, 2016, the Left Block, the PCP and the PS dropped our proposal for an independent external audit. Then, in the face of the country's cry, you realized that this breach was not accepted...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u44	You don't understand anything about the country's cry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u45	...and, thank you, they agreed to do an audit there. But, not content and satisfied with the cover-up, today you know why, when the Committee of Inquiry started, the government and the left did everything to hide it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u47	The Government has not sent the documents and even Parliament has resorted to making the information not available here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u49	The left have done everything to ensure that, when the court gave instructions and authorization for these documents to arrive here, the Commission 'died' without knowing what happened. [[PSD applause.]] Today, with this audit, we realized what you were afraid to know and what you wanted to hide.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u50	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u51	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, there is another serious failure which is beginning to become increasingly evident. Mr. João Almeida said that the Minister for Finance and the Government have been absent and Mr. Minister for Finance said: "No, we are not absent". In fact, the Minister of Finance was present to put 5 billion of the taxpayers, but disappeared when he touched on responsibility, fled and hid so that he did not know what had happened. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, they did the audit, thanks to the country, tried to boycott the Committee of Inquiry and closed it in a hurry so that nothing could be known.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u53	But, Mr. Minister of Finance, as serious as that was your answer when the audit was completed. We asked you about her and what did you say? You repeated here: "The audit is there, but I don't want to know! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u54	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u55	The shareholder, the bank owner realizes that there is something serious and, even when the country realizes it's serious, what does it say? “ I don’t want to know! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] The Portuguese know today that you have a minister here who puts 5 billion of their money and says you don't want to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u56	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u57	Mr Minister, there are three reasons why the shareholder, the government needs to know the result of the audit. The first reason is because it does not involve so much money from the Portuguese without knowing the causes, why, what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u58	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u59	What a civilized left!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u60	Secondly, you need to know why the government needs to define the model of governance, mission and strategic lines. Therefore, a government with a minimum responsibility, without negligence, would have analyzed the audit, understood what had happened and, in the governance model, would have improved in practices and strategic lines what would have improved. But Mr. Minister doesn't want to improve! As has been customary, this government does not want to know what concerns the Portuguese, just to know what matters to its political image and therefore washed its hands as if it were not with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u62	Finally, Minister, there is a third reason why the Government has to know: civil responsibility is also the competence of the shareholder.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u63	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u64	Yes, with failures of this dimension, there is probably a field and space for civil accountability of administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u65	The string! The string!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u66	And who is responsible for exercising it? The owner of the shareholder function, the government, you! But you don't want to know! Open... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u67	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. The government should want to know and we today know that it does not want, because of both, or even both: either it is concerned only with its interest and its political image or it does not want to act the civil responsibility of the administrators, for fear that the answer from them will be...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u69	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. This socialist government does not want to act on the civil responsibility of the administrators, because it fears that they respond that what they did was by political guidance from another government and that this government was socialist. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u71	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In the last decade and a half, the Portuguese have seen a succession of scandals in the bank, all accompanied by large bills for taxpayers to pay. Years and years of management at the service of large private interests and, in some cases even criminal management, have resulted in losses of billions of euros to the public record. For example, there is the case of BPN, a small private bank, whose hole already exceeds EUR 4 billion and not to grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u73	As much as Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u74	Or the case of BES, which, at the service of the interests of a private economic group and the family that controlled it, cost taxpayers in the first phase of EUR 4900 million and could still cost more EUR 3900 million. In the face of this escalation of the private management of the bank, the General Deposit Box, as a public bank, instead of giving the example, was also taken to the turbilion by successive board of directors appointed by PS governments, PSD and CDS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : A preliminary version of the audit report to the Management of the General Deposit Box between 2000 and 2015 has recently been published, and the Assembly of the Republic, through the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, requested access to the final version. While it is still necessary to confirm some advanced elements in the preliminary report, the need for the full realization of the personal responsibilities of all those who were involved in the management of the Box between 2000 and 2015, of those who, by incompetence, with pain or mere inaction, were responsible for management acts that led to massive losses of billions of euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u76	Such clearance must be made by the Box itself, without prejudice to any criminal responsibilities, whose clearance will obviously compete with the courts. Without prejudice to this finding, it is already possible to conclude the correct assessment made by the PCP previously, in particular in the two Commissions of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box. It is now possible to conclude that as a result of the wrong political guidelines of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, who wanted to align the public bank with private sector practices, the Box went on to promote the interests of private economic groups to the detriment of the public interest. And both the CDS, as well as PSD and PS will have to assume their responsibilities by the managers who have appointed to the Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u78	As in private banks, Caixa adopted speculative approaches, looking only at private and market interests, which removed her from the fundamental mission of a public bank. Large sums have been lost with credit concession for failed projects and ruinous businesses. Private economic groups were exceptionally benefited. And ask yourself, have the administrators appointed by the CDS ever called into question these business?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u79	What!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u80	The political responsibility for these Box options was clear in the Commissions of Inquiry carried out in the meantime: this responsibility is for successive PS governments, PSD and CDS and the policy guidelines with which they decided to align the public bank with private sector practices, preventing the institution from fulfilling and realising its potential as a public instrument, i.e. to put itself at the service of the national interest. The current Board of Directors continues to follow this direction and to act as if Box were a private bank. The PCP rejects this option and reaffirms that the General Deposit Box should have another orientation. Despite the existing problems and the bad political orientation over the decades, the Box has continued and continues to play a key role in financing the economy and families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u82	... having constituted an anchor of the national financial system, at times when the crisis was more intense. The Fund should have a bearing on strengthening its role in the national economy, extending its territorial coverage, supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, reducing the costs of banking services, combating financial speculation and favouring monopoly groups. It is absolutely necessary to learn from past mistakes in order not to repeat them in the present and in the future. The General Deposit Box is a public bank and must act as such, always but always at the service of national interest. This option requires, in the view of the CFP, the rejection of the European Union's taxes — which favour banking concentration in megabanks and withdraw national decision-making capacity — and the implementation of measures which lead to the public control of the national bank in the long term. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u83	Mr João Paulo Correia spoke for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u84	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If this debate takes place today it is because an external and independent audit of the General Deposit Box has been determined.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u86	And this audit was determined by this Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u87	After you've been sucking one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u88	More: this audit was determined by this Government of the Socialist Party even before Parliament passed an audit to the General Deposit Board, audit, which did not have the PSD's favorable vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u89	Exactly! No CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u90	Not this government, there would have been an external and independent audit and the General Deposit Box. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u91	That's to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u92	The PS does not receive or have reason to receive moral lessons from the Left Block or any other party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] On this issue, the position of the Socialist Party is clear and well-winned: that the responsibilities and those responsible for mismanagement and harmful management in the General Deposit Box will be learned as soon as possible. This audit covers a time period beginning in 2000 and ending in 2015. Through various governments and various administrations. Therefore, whoever throws stones should be careful, because they make ricochetes and can fall into the head of who is always throwing them to the same. Let it be clear that this position, to claim accountability and responsibilities, is not only before the Banco de Portugal, it is not only before the work of the Public Prosecutor, who represents the Portuguese people, it is also before the current administration of the General Deposit Box, which must ascertain the civil and criminal responsibility of the administrators and managers who participated in this mismanagement or in any harmful management. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to know the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u93	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u94	But the truth of what happened in all banks, because the right always has the will to know what happens only in the Box. But besides knowing what's going on in the box, you need to know what's going on in the other banks. It is that when no one lent money to the private bank, such as the BCP and the BPI, it was the state that lent money to the BCP and the BPI. But you, the CDS and the PSD, don't want to know what happened to these banks too, who were saved by the money borrowed by the Portuguese State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u95	And they paid with interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u96	The General Deposit Box began to damage 2011. The inequalities recorded in the General Deposit Box at the end of 2013... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u97	What about the old bad business? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, because this is very important for your individual consciousness examination. As I said, the disparities recorded in the General Deposit Box at the end of 2013 amounted to EUR 4500 million. But from 2013 to the end of 2015, in two years, the inequalities fired at EUR 5200 million. Where did the previous PSD/CDS-PP government go? Where have you been? Deputies João Pinho de Almeida and António Leitão Amaro, who belonged to this government and who now beat his chest against the Box, but, when they were rulers, did not want to know what was going on in the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And you know why you didn't want to know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u99	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u100	It's very simple: they didn't want to know, because the worse the Box gets, the better for your privatisation strategy of the General Deposit Box. What mattered was privatizing the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u101	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u102	Mr Minister, what would you say to a government that was accused by the Court of Auditors of lack of control in the General Deposit Box? It would be a very serious charge! Well, I'll read the headline of a newspaper in 2016, which says the following : Court of Auditors accuses Finances... — Ministry led by today's Deputy Maria Luís Albuquerque —... of "lack of control" in the General Deposit Box between 2013 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u103	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u104	I will read again the title, Mr. Member : Court of Auditors accuses finances of « lack of control » in the General Deposit Box between 2013 and 2015. He also said: « Ministry of Finance, which during most of that period was guarded by Maria Luís Albuquerque, should have exercised greater control over the public bank, defend the Court of Auditors ». He further states: « The Court of Auditors accuses the Ministry of Finance of ‘lack of control’ in the General Deposit Box ( CGD ), between 2013 and 2015 (... ) ». That's the truth! This is the position of the Socialist Party, for the sake of truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u105	You have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to recall a few facts. We asked for the audit...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u107	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u108	What about you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u109	...and that then we indicate that the same audit was taken to the last consequences. [[CDS-PP protests.]] [[Which ones?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u110	It is false, it is totally false that the government has not followed the procedure. Over a year and a half, from 23 June 2016 to 28 December 2018, we gave all the indications necessary for the Board of Directors of the General Deposit Box to safeguard the interest of the shareholder, of the Portuguese. [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] Your dream—of the PSD and CDS—was that the Box was solved and sold. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u111	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u112	Once again, one does not realize: either the government gives many indications, or the government gives few indications to the Box, because it has previously given many and now it has little. But if we look at the period included in the audit, when you were in the government, we know two things: the first is that you injected EUR 1650 million into the General Deposit Box and there was no audit. But there was an adjustment program going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u113	Mr Minister, he has already exceeded his time, even with what was handed over to him by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u114	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, there was an adjustment program to be carried out and this adjustment program had quarterly reports on the General Deposit Box. So Mr António Leitão Amaro, if you would like to know about these reports — and I have already said this here once — ask Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque because she has read them all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u115	To close the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u116	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: This is a debate about the responsibilities of the past and the consequences that must be taken into account in the present. And on these, Mr Minister said: let's go to the final consequences. Mr Minister, not the last, not the first! Consequences haven't seen any yet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u117	He's got a capitalized box!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u118	...in fact, we haven't seen the report yet. This is still a debate on the right that the Portuguese have to know what has been done on their behalf. As for the first argument I have heard here, that if it wasn't for the government and the PS, nothing was known, it must be said here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u119	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u120	...that if it were not the PS, most of these credits would never have been granted and therefore there would be nothing to know or account to pay. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u121	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u122	And it is precisely to conceal the responsibility of the PS governments in these credits, to conceal the responsibilities of the members of the Socialist Party, that you do not want the report to be known and want to make it a secret.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u123	A PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u124	And moreover, Mr. Minister here expressed a rather curious notion of the function of the State as a shareholder of the Caixa, which is the following: if there are criminal issues, they are with the Public Prosecutor ; if there are matters of counter-ordination, they are with the Banco de Portugal ; if there are questions of administration, they are with the administration of the Caixa. This close of counters, commissions, paper from Box in the market, help to companies, all this is with the administration of Box. For you, the only role of the State is the role of the Portuguese: it is to pass the check with the money of all of us. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]] For you, the Minister of Finance and the fact that Box is a public bank means that the only right Portuguese have is to pay the bill. It is that we do not have the right to know who were responsible for the decisions, we do not have the right to know who were the beneficiaries of these claims,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u125	They're your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u126	They're more of yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u127	...we only have the right to know the account. On the other hand, as I heard very indignant speeches there in the rostrum, I would like to tell the Left Block that, sometimes, indignation is a trick to hide shame and embarrassment—and I understood it well. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] And you know why, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua? Because, in this matter and in the case of Box, the Left Block was the blocking party — Left Block, The Blocker. First of all, he tried to block the Committee of Inquiry : the Block saw no reason for a Committee of Inquiry in the Box. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u128	Then, when the Committee of Inquiry wanted to make a report and have an audit that was independent of this audit that they want to hide us, do you know what Mr. Moisés Ferreira said? He said: 'The PSD proposes that this Parliamentary Commission entrust an audit by mimicking the object of the Commission itself'. So they voted against, they didn't want the audit! They've blocked the audit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u129	We locked up, how? Oh, my God! Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u130	More: when it was possible to hear people know the truth of what had happened in the Box, do you know what the Left Block did? He's stuck! He blocked the hearings that they themselves had requested in July 2016. For example, in the case of Armando Vara, they blocked your hearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u131	The frame, the frame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u132	Then, at the end of the day, when they had nothing left to block, they blocked the Committee of Inquiry themselves and closed it, before they knew the truth. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member says, "I didn't make any freight". Madam Member, I do not know whether they were cargoes or not, but there they were fundamental to blocking the truth and the knowledge of the truth in Parliament, they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u133	A whole year of Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u134	The Left Block was the blocker of truth with regard to Box — against facts, there are no arguments! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : I conclude by saying that what is at issue here, yes, is the function of the Box as a public bank. I know that when you want to hide unpleasant truths, especially those concerning the Socialist Party, you come with the ghost of box privatization. Now, the best way to defend the Box as a public bank is precisely telling the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u136	It was EUR 2000 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u137	The Portuguese, who pay, have the right to know who originated the account and who benefited from it. This is not called populism, because it is precisely the denial of it as a serene right of representatives of the Portuguese people, which causes all populism to rise around this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u138	Mr Minister, I do not see you defending that the Box has a different role from the other banks in helping companies; I do not think it should have the same role; I do not see you claim that the Box should have commissions and market practices other than the other banks; I do not see you defending a balcony policy in places where they are necessary, other than the other banks; what I hear is that the Box should be exactly like a private bank, except in the role it reserves for itself, because, if there is a problem, an injury, Mr. Minister there is, with his pen, to pass the check, with the money of all of us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u139	What about the others? Oh, my God! Let's get to the others, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u140	...and tell us that we have no right to know anything. We have a right to know! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We now move on to the second point, which is the assessment of the draft resolution No 1807 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the role of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, together with the general assessment of draft Laws Nos 1059 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008, of 14 January ( regulates entry into the judiciary, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), incorporating an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child and 1064 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. To open the debate, and to present its drafts, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact is that the discussion on this subject has already begun in a number of legislative initiatives which the various parliamentary groups have presented, paying attention to the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, and which have always come to alert Portugal to the need to define and adopt a clear national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to the need to monitor it. Solving this gap is not a very important detail. Portugal has been eager to ratify the Convention, but the truth is that it is still far from fulfilling all its obligations regarding the realization of the rights of children enshrined in this Convention. The Social Democratic Party therefore once again brings this issue to debate and presents its draft resolution, which specifically recommends to the Government that the Ombudsman be given the role of coordinating and monitoring this Convention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in Portugal, there is an entity with constitutional consecration, in whose powers, without doubt, are responsible for this assignment. The Ombudsman has a core that integrates the issue of the rights of the child. For the PSD, the Ombudsman's Office is the place of natural vocation to receive this assignment, providing it, yes, that is what is missing and that is what needs to be addressed, the human and technical means appropriate to the exercise of this noble function. Already existing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an institution with these powers and with this ability, it is not justified, in our view, to create any other body, to add to the many existing public bodies, in order to assign this function to it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also bring to the discussion, and we present - it - another of the recommendations made by the United Nations Committee, which is also concerned with some needs, in particular with the need for the application of the principles and values of the Convention in our case-law. To this end, we argue that, in the course of training for entry into the courts, there is a legal component that really affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is in this sense that we are also moving forward with this initiative, pointing out the importance that this issue must take on the level of continuing training actions of the Members. Judges, proposing amendments to the law governing entry into the judiciary, training and nature, the structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ( CEJ ). This is the step that the Democratic Social Party is proposing today to this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to invent any more problems with this matter, but we are going to find a solution and leave redundancy. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u143	To present your bill, Mr. André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal, based on non-discrimination, in the priority consideration of the best interests of the child in all actions that concern him and equal opportunities, represents an important step in the promotion of children's rights. Consequently, for its relevance, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended that Portugal establish mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the Convention in order to ensure its effective implementation. This is not a consensual issue, we believe that the entity responsible for this monitoring should be the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, given that it already assumes, among other relevant tasks in this regard, the allocation of planning, monitoring and evaluation of a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Therefore, by accepting several opinions issued, we intend, with this initiative, to strengthen the competences of the National Commission by creating, in this entity, an observatory for monitoring the implementation of the Convention, which will allow for increased technical knowledge on this subject, enabling the definition of more effective public policies to promote the rights and protection of children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have been discussing issues of child protection in an abundant way in this legislature, and in recent months in particular, whether in the perspective of child protection at risk, or in the view of monitoring and implementing the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In fact, there are a set of projects that are in a working group of 1. the Commission and others who are now joining in this discussion, which reveal the centrality of these issues and the importance they have in our society. Here in this Parliament, of course, the debate is relevant, by political imperative, constitutional and, I will say, even by ethical imperative. As we have come to say in all these discussions, we understand that the effective defense of children's rights is, of course, a constitutional imperative and is one of the most relevant struggles of our time. As we have mentioned, in this fight, we need an integrated, coordinated and articulated work, because the effectiveness of social intervention in childhood is not done in a clumsy way, with partial initiatives or points, but in a framework of comprehensive articulation, with a specific strategy of intervention that calls for social security, health, justice and education. In the Socialist Party, we have defended and are implementing a permanent agenda for the defence of children's rights. When we strengthen school social action, we are strengthening the protection of our children; when we restore income to families, we deepen the justice of the distribution of these incomes; when we increase pensions and all social benefits, we update and strengthen, successively, in all State budgets, the family allowance, now, for children between 12 and 36 months. We have this concern about a permanent and steady fight against child poverty, also creating the reversal of social exclusion, which, as we know, has increased exponentially with right-wing governance. This has been our path, the path of inversion, the replacement and the strengthening of the protection of the rights of the child, because we understand that this is the right path. With regard to the proposals which are currently under discussion here, in particular the draft resolution of the PSD — which has been rejected at the previous legislative session and is now opposed — which aims to give the Ombudsman the role of monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as we stated earlier, we believe that such monitoring and allocation to the Ombudsman does not seem to make sense to us, since according to the law and the legal regime of 2015, it is up to the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor this same protection and application. And this is very clearly and clearly established: planning, monitoring and evaluating a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and drawing up a multi-annual national plan for the promotion and protection of these rights. In other words, the 2015 legal regime is clear and unequivocal in relation to the allocation of these powers to the National Commission. What we have to do is strengthen the means, resources of the National Commission, avoid duplication and, above all, as we proposed in the last legislative session, create an observatory that can monitor and qualify for its action. We therefore see ourselves in the NAP project, which, in fact, follows the initiative of the Socialist Party of the previous session.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u147	Madam Member, be careful with the time, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u148	Mr. President, I shall finish next. As regards Draft Law No 1059 / XIII / 4. the PSD, on the inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the judiciary and in the training of judges, amending the 2008 law, we believe that in the ECJ study plan ( Centre for Judicial Studies ), in the training of 1. the cycle, already includes the Convention on the Rights of the Child and is also included in continuing training. The system therefore responds to these concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u149	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u150	We also ask the PSD whether we should specify a convention, to the detriment of others, since there are other conventions with this universal dimension. They count on the Socialist Party, to continue to affirm the defense of the rights of the child, their participation and their proper auscultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u151	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to congratulate the Democratic Social Party on this agenda. It brings us two initiatives, one of which we have already had the opportunity to vote in the previous legislative session, and the CDS has accompanied it. Starting with this initiative, the draft resolution that recommends to the Government that the Ombudsman be given the role of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, I would first of all like to say the following: practically all parties have initiatives of this nature or on matters related to this reality. In other words, it is recognised as important, but not a priority, to monitor, monitor, monitor the Convention and there are several situations related to the implementation of the protection and promotion of the rights of children who advise that such monitoring is carried out. Therefore, the first perplexity on the part of the CDS — which already had the opportunity to express, at the time of the discussion and vote of the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, which is now very closely accompanied by the NAP initiative — is to know how, in relation to an absolutely essential matter concerning children, a supra-partitionary matter, which does not have any connotation, in which the fulfilment of international obligations is concerned, there is no effort to consensualize the final solution. As it is, in this matter of importance and scope, parties in the House are not able to consensualize a solution. This is strange, even because, moreover, it also concerns the fulfilment of international obligations. That is why the CDS has always been available, either in relation to this initiative, which we follow closely—and we will already say why—and in relation to others. What we find essential is that the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, like what happens, for example, with the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, should preferably be ensured by an independent body with autonomy vis-à-vis the Government. It seems to me that this solution that is brought by the PSD has this advantage in relation to that which is played by other parties. Regardless of this or not, the essential thing is to consensualize a solution and, in our view, it should be ensured, preferably, by those who have independence from the government. Mrs. Susana Amador said that the PS solution is already in the law, but the perplexity is that the PS solution is in some way already in the law, because the Ombudsman also has this competence. That's ridiculous and we should have the ability to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u153	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u154	Finally, Mr President, on the draft law on entry into the judiciary, namely the formation of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ( CEJ ), incorporating a chair on this nature, of course we accompany it. I believe that it is of the greatest importance and therefore we also associate ourselves with the PSD initiatives at this point. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u155	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u156	Mr President, on this matter — an important and relevant issue, because legislative solutions are at stake about safeguarding and promoting children's rights — we do not follow the proposals that the PSD here makes for disagreement with the solutions presented. Not that the results of your approval were bad—no, they wouldn't! — but, in fact, these are not solutions we recommend. One of the PSD proposals is to enter into the law the obligation of the Judicial Studies Centre to incorporate an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Children. Now, it seems to us that this represents a certain decrease in what is the Center for Judicial Studies, because it does not pass by the head of anyone that this Centre does not incorporate this area into its formations. That is not the case, as is the report of 1. the Commission, either in its legislation or in its own study plan of the Centre for Judicial Studies for the last course in the training of judges, is expressly enshrined in this training area. Therefore, we see no need to be making the law redundant when this matter is already a concern of the Center for Judicial Studies, as it could not fail to be. On the other hand, to enshrine in the law that the Centre for Judicial Studies should give particular attention to this Convention on the Rights of the Children... Well, because we cannot say the same about the conventions on combating corruption, or about conventions on combating domestic violence, or on violent crime... that is, there are immense conventions to which, of course, the ECJ will give its importance, as it does to the Convention on the Rights of the Children. It therefore seems to us that this initiative is redundancy, unnecessary. With regard to the allocation to the Ombudsman of the competence proposed at the PSD initiative on the promotion of children's rights, the CFP has the following position: neither do we advocate the existence of partial providers on various matters—we believe that the Ombudsman is only one and that he should hold the competences in matters of supply in relation to the area he is responsible for— nor do we advocate that the Ombudsman should be weakened with powers. And this has already been done, i.e., there has already been a certain temptation to assign new powers to the Ombudsman who may be able to make it difficult to carry out their duties. It happens that there is already an entity that has all the logic that this matter is attributed to, the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u157	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. He wants us to feel that it does not make much sense and that it is not very appropriate, although it would not be bad for the world if it were the Ombudsman to have that competence. What we believe is that since this competence has already been attributed to an entity and has this logical allocation, it does not make sense to withdraw it from that entity to confer it on the Ombudsman. Mr President, even to conclude, the NAP initiative has to do with others who are already under discussion in the Commission and, as such, he wants us to believe that it should be incorporated into this discussion so that an appropriate solution can be found. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u159	Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : Indeed, the Convention on the Rights of the Child was a fundamental step towards the promotion of a wide range of children's rights and the assumption that they constitute a maximum responsibility for democracy. However, the role of reality goes a long way away and we must ensure that this Convention and these rights are implemented. The Left Block has already spoken on this issue during the discussion of other initiatives presented here, specifically aimed at monitoring the implementation of this Convention. At the time we mentioned that the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has warned that there is no national strategy and coordination for the implementation of children's rights in Portugal and that the Portuguese Committee for UNICEF recommends the creation of an independent entity for the issues of children and youth to coordinate and monitor the implementation of this Convention. At the time we considered that, despite the reconfiguration of the now so-called National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, given its genesis directed — and well! — the protection of children and young people in danger, the latter is not entitled to proactive action in all areas within the scope of this Convention. We are well aware that CPCJs (protection committees for children and young people) have never and continue to lack, at least, the resources and means necessary to the strict powers of protection, especially for everything else. We are well aware that enlargement of competence will not come out of the way. We also believe that assigning coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the Convention to the Ombudsman is not an efficient solution. The Assistant Provider does not only deal with children, but also with elderly and disabled people, and his performance is not proactive— nor does he have the form of being! — but, yes, reactive in specific matters, particularly in the face of specific complaints. The Left Block defends, in fact, several international and European bodies, the creation of the Children's Providence, as it has already existed in some 70 countries since 1979. A number of European and international bodies — the UN, the Council of Europe — recommend to States the creation of the Children's Province, with guarantees of independence of political and economic power and with the mission to promote the fulfilment of the rights and interests of children and young people proactively, with competences — in addition to the competence to defend children in the face of specific complaints — to monitor, for the conduct of studies and diagnoses, for the preparation of proposals to political decision-makers, for the dissemination, awareness-raising and training. As a result of the absence in our country of a protective figure that protects it, the Portuguese child has been treated with unacceptable injustice in relation to the other European children. Therefore, the Left Block will propose, within 1. the Commission, the creation of a working group with a view to the study, analysis and development of the status of the child's supply, with the participation of children and young people and specialists with competence in children and youth. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u161	To close the debate, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the debate, it seems to me that there are some notes to be withdrawn. The truth is that the parliamentary groups cannot reach consensus on such a simple matter and that it is only about monitoring the Convention on the Rights of the Child. As for this goal, we all know, we have all been alert to this need and we all have this consciousness. The PSD Parliamentary Group must only regret — that is the disagreement we have, I regret — that we cannot achieve this objective in practice and realize that the Ombudsman is an independent body, with constitutional consecration, in whose powers I have already pointed out, without doubt, this realization of the monitoring of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mr António Filipe, who recently mentioned that he attributed this competence to the Ombudsman, gives the idea that we are enfracting it with more powers, I would like to recall that the previous Ombudsman also showed that he accepted this indemnity, rejecting, moreover, that it could be attributed to another entity which was created for this purpose. The left, in this Parliament, what it wants is the duplication of functions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u163	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u164	... duplication of organisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u166	More: when the current Ombudsman was questioned on this matter, in hearing in 1. the Commission and during the discussion in a working group, it also argued that the Ombudsman is the natural place of vocation to receive this allocation. He said, yes, and we also say that we should provide the Ombudsman with the necessary technical and human resources to this end. Therefore, the PSD maintains this position, because it understands that it is the most reasonable one. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u167	Mrs. Members, together with the joint assessment of draft resolution No 1807 / XIII / 4. a and the projects of lein.os 1059 and 1064 / XIII / 4. the, we move on to the next item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No. 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network. To present the bill, Mr. Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State provides a National Health Service for the entire population, whether rich or poor. It also ensures a public school for all children and young people, they live where they live in our territory. It also provides a system of pensions and reforms for those who have had a working life or for those who need support in more vulnerable situations. To this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we call social state, social and territorial cohesion. From Bragança to Sagres, including archipelagos, no one stays out. To this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we call social status. Take public services seriously is this: to ensure that constitutional rights are not dead letters, they are effective in the daily lives of each and every one of us, they are part of our collective existence and articulate individuals from a logic of solidarity. We need that in culture, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Why does the right to cultural creation and fruitfulness continue, in many parts of the country, as mere fiction? The network of theaters and cinemas that the Block proposes is a step in this direction. It can be a pillar of this culture service that we want to build. Guaranteeing regular programming throughout the territory is, however, a social right. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do we agree or not with that principle? Do we agree or not with the existence of a programming network that ensures that there are no exceptions to the right, creation and cultural use of any citizen? Do we want or do we not want to give life to theaters and cinemas that exist physically through this country but that do not often guarantee this programming? We want it or not, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to ensure a service of culture that, in conjunction with the art and the living culture of these territories, of the municipalities, affirms that culture exists, that is not dead letter and that is alive in our councils, our districts and our territories? Yes, sir. Members, then, let us follow up on this proposal from the Block. It is a first step to ensure that theaters and cinemas actually begin not only to go through fiction, but to pass through what is the country's living culture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u169	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Conceição Loureiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u170	Mr President, in my first speech, I would like to extend a special greeting to the whole plenary in the person of Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today the bill of the Block of Left, which aims to create the network of Portuguese theatres and cinematrators. If we talk today about concepts such as democratization, decentralization, internationalization or professionalization of culture, we can well remember the XIII Constitutional Government, Antonio Guterres, and its Government Programme. We remember, too, that it was following this Government Programme that, for the pursuit of these policies, was built or rehabilitated, through shared investment between central power, authorities and community frameworks, most of the equipment that so far constitute the infrastructure fabric of the cultural activities of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u174	It was also in this perspective that in 1999 the PS government launched the idea and bases of the theatre and cinema network.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policy pursued by this Government with regard to theatres and cinemas in Portugal, which mostly belong to the municipal sphere, is that of its valorisation as cultural dissemination poles throughout the territory, particularly in the fields of performing arts and cinema. The Socialist Party does not ignore and recognise the good intention of this bill, which emerges as a reflection of the need to implement more public policies that democratize access to culture. This is our intention, but we are particularly interested in having its discussion expanded and deepened by the various reservations it presents, for example, with regard to the financing model and the various dimensions of accreditation of these spaces. Moreover, in the current context of a strong commitment to the decentralization policy carried out by this Government, with the consensus reached with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, it does not seem beneficial to legislate in a matter of strong local incidence without the necessary consensus on solutions in such a relevant and broad social impact. The creation of a network of this nature can also not forget the necessary link with the future national plan of the arts and must ensure the obvious inclusion of theaters and theaters in the autonomous regions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u178	... whose dimensions necessarily connect with the work to be developed in these spaces. The Government is working on this issue and has been working on identifying these infrastructures as well as on programming perspectives for the different equipment spread across the national territory. at this time, this is the priority: to identify spaces, content and programming that can be taken to this type of cultural spaces and equipment. We stress, however, and again, that we are open to a wider and deeper discussion in the field of specialty, if the Left Block so understands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u179	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank the Left Block for the opportunity we have to talk about culture today. The CFP, as it is known, defends the deepening of the role of the State and more specifically the central administration in the structuring of a true public service that responds to the constitutional design of the right to culture. We have therefore put the urgency of the increase in public investment towards 1% of the State budget for culture to build public service of culture, especially where it does not exist, but also to provide the means needed at material, financial and human level. The public service of the central administration at the level of culture is much and much needed by workers. With regard to the initiative in particular, we agree with several principles which it sets out, in particular the principle of greater accountability in relation to the building, equipment and the dynamization of activities in theatres and cinemas. In fact, it seems to us that, in this proposal, we would need a little more of the concrete measure of central government funding accountability, and it will have a very relevant position at the level of this diploma. We also agree with the principle of cultural decentralization, but not in the sense that it was presented here by the Socialist Party, in the perspective, which has now been debated, of the charges, but not precisely of the means necessary for things to run well then, in this process of decentralization to the local power of the powers of the central administration. What we are defending is a completely different process of cultural decentralization, that is, precisely in the view of assuming the responsibilities of the State and the Government to ensure that everyone has access to cultural exploitation and creation at any point in the country. Therefore, for the CFP, cultural decentralization cannot be reduced to programming and circulation requirements. It is, above all, the creation and dynamization of the local and regional cultural and artistic fabric that we can achieve. Otherwise, the risk of creating networks to which it is difficult to access and which work in closed circuits is real, and we believe that this is not the desired way. To place the focus of the dynamization of theaters and cinematalls in the programming, if it is something poorly oriented and poorly executed in the concrete, can lead to pressure that eventually falls mainly on the market, leading to commercialization phenomena that we do not consider positive, and also to produce the undesirable effect of ending up to narrowing cultural and artistic diversity. Therefore, if we follow in essence the project of the Left Block, we consider that it can and should be densityed, in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u181	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of the theatre and cinema network has two dimensions — the physical dimension, the size of the spaces, and the size of its programming. What happened in the 2000s was development and investment in the physical network with the clear aim of having at least one of these spaces in each district. This development was clearly asymmetrical. If some of these spaces were able, with the central role of the authorities, to create a network, to compete even with the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) and with Community support to develop this network and, even after the end of these Community support, to add other spaces to that network, others could not have this development. Therefore, the relevance of the project of the Left Block exists, we could not say otherwise, until in the Electoral Programme of the PSD and the CDS a proposal was included to support these networks in relation to programming, making the networks in cases where they did not exist and enhancing the networks in case they already exist, with a national and international dimension. And on this issue it seems relevant to us to say that the framework that the Left Block does is not entirely accurate. It is not true that there is no legal or financial framework for this type of network. It exists, it is at the level of the authorities, and it is asymmetric. On this, we agree: there is no global vision. On the other hand, it is very important, especially in the formation of publics and even in the capture of publics, the inclusion of national theatres and the itinerance of national theatres, but this also exists, although nothing is detrimental to the fact that there can be more in reality than in the role. We're in full agreement. It is also important to say that, with regard to itinerance of national theatres, the CDS presented, in fact, the only proposal it presented in the State budget in this area, a proposal for an increase in funds so that this route could be more significant than the one that exists at the moment. It is unfortunate that this proposal has been plunged, because it would be a great contribution to the realization of the project of the Left Block if it could now be done. On the other hand, programme contracts are still needed, but they are also needed in national theatres themselves and in the programming of national theatres themselves. This type of financing is important, but cannot exclude financing for artistic creation, which, as we know, has been a problem. The Secretary of State for Culture, if I remember two years ago, said that financing of this kind of network was almost coming out. Not only did this funding go out, as funding for creation has not yet. So what we say is that we are fully available to discuss this project in the specialty, we think it is relevant, but it cannot serve to cover other failures that exist, other priorities that exist and that unfortunately are not yet realized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u183	Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate on the creation of the Portuguese theatre and cinema network, it will be necessary to begin by setting up the subject and recall that, from the end of the 1980s and throughout the next decade, the Country has sought to structure and give coherence to the infrastructures which, essentially at the initiative of the authorities, were created a little throughout the territory — from the National Network of Performing Rooms to the National Network of Theatres and Cinematriums, created in the late 1990s, in fact, exactly with the name of this network that is now intended to recreate, with the central administration and the authorities to develop and share over the decades an important effort, also of financial order, in this field. Several reasons, however, led to failures in this design of building a network. On the one hand, the process of building or recovering the impressive set of cultural infrastructures, which has been witnessed a little throughout the country, has assumed — as it were necessarily in the face of the circumstances — a essentially voluntary character, without obedience to a whole vision, without logics of territorial articulation. On the other hand, budgetary insufficiency has always been an obstacle to the continuity of programming, the hiring and maintenance of technical teams, and the sustainability of their cultural projects and their network operation. What happens to this bill today under discussion is that, of course, on budgetary matters says « zero». It does not say anything about the origin of the funds that will be affected by the creation of the network, in which amounts, if they come out of money for the support of the arts, if the financing for the arts is strengthened, if they are taken from the other side and from other projects. Nothing about it. in this framework, it will also be necessary to question the temporal opportunity, because the presentation of this bill arises after four State budgets approved by the current parliamentary majority, without then alarming the budgetary framework to which it is now proposed without a budget. As you know, to be approved, this bill could only come into force with a new State budget and, therefore, with another government. From this point of view, it is said that the opportunity of the initiative is obvious, yes, as a metaphor for the failure of cultural policy in this legislature, and it is recalled that, also in this particular matter, despite making announcements, the Ministry of Culture has not taken a single step.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u186	Having said this, the PSD looks at the essence of the assumptions and objectives of the bill, so in our view this opportunity for debate should not be wasted. The bill deserves to be discussed in the field of expertise and, in this process, the PSD will not fail to make its contribution, to seek to contribute to the improvement of the diploma, in the name of cultural decentralization, the correction of asymmetries and possibly more generalized access to cultural goods and activities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u187	To close the debate, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of closure, it seems important to me to say three essential things. The first of these is whether the project presented by the Left Block does not serve to hide the weaknesses that exist, today, in the budget of culture, in the programs for culture... None of this, on the contrary! In fact, the Assembly of the Republic has done, and well, a review of the DGArts competition (Directorate General of the Arts) and the often bureaucratic difficulty of this process. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members can rest, therefore, on the side of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, this project does not serve to hide any of these weaknesses, but, precisely, to give more robustness to a State's ability to guarantee cultural creation and use throughout the country. Secondly, on the issue of national theatres and municipal cinemas or theatres, if it is true that we have to rethink budgets and plans for national theatres, we also need to create a territorial cohesion network. Therefore, the project we present is an important step for this, an important step to ensure that we are also fighting asymmetries that are often serious, acute, when we speak in territorial cohesion and in the different realities that exist in the country. Finally, what is the opening of the Left Block to discuss this? Everything, as always! As to the relevance of the project presentation, this question was also raised when we presented it in 2009, in 2010, in 2011 and it was plummeted. So, yes, Mr. Member, we are making this debate late, not because of the Left Block, but because the project was previously plunged by other parliamentary majorities in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u189	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u190	I will finish, Mr. President. If there is an opening to vote favourably this bill tomorrow, and if, as I said, on the side of the Left Block, there is a total opening for, in the field of specialty, to improve this same bill, then, we make this way, because culture, cultural agents and the country need it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u191	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government redequate the construction project of the Alvito dam in a multi-use logic of the water, and 1124 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust a feasibility study of the Alvito dam as a use of multiple purposes, including the hypothesis of its construction in its maximum quota. To present the CDS initiative, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a draft resolution proposing to the Government that reassess the project to build the Alvito dam. Why are we presenting this project? Because the barrier of Alvito, not only in our perspective but also in many specialists, is essential to ensure the regularization of the river Tejo and to mitigate the effects, not only those already present but also the future, of climate change. It happens that the current government decided to cancel the construction of the Alvito dam in 2016, within the framework of the revision of the National Plan of Potential Hidroelectric High Barrages. The barrier of Alvito has been designed and planned since the 1950s, from the first Development Plan, and initially even designed for agricultural use, only then it was thought to be hydroelectric. at that time, Mr. Members, the dams were not thought of a multiple-use logic, either they were hydroelectric dams or they were hydro-agricultural dams, but today's reality, almost 70 years ago, is quite different. In the 1950s, it was not even known what were climate change and the only renewable energy was water. Today, we have other renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, which we have already used in the country, but we also have climate change as a well-present reality, with more and more frequent periods of heavy rains and increasingly prolonged droughts. We also have several uses of multiple purposes, which allow the investments made to be profitable and ensure water, in quantity and quality, for various uses, either for human supply, either for industrial and agricultural use or even for environmental purposes. As such, the barrier of Alvito that we want today does not have to be, cannot be, the barrier of Alvito that we have designed in the past. The Tejo basin is, of the three international basins, the one that has greater problems of quantity and also of water quality. Therefore, in our perspective, it is urgent to think of a solution now, in the present, to precaution the future, before it is too late and situations such as that we lived in Viseu two years ago, or like the one we did not live, during the drought of 2017, in the Alentejo, precisely because there was the barrier of the Alqueva, which allowed to regulate the situation. What we propose is to rethink and re-equalize, in the light of what we know today and of what we know will exist in the future, a barrier of Alvito—the one that existed, a different one, a larger one or a smaller one—and that does not abandon this project nor leave the region of the Tejo basin to its fate and to an ever-increasing desertification, which is what we know will happen, if nothing is done. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u193	To present the PSD initiative, Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project of construction of the barrier of Alvito, located in the Ocreza River, flowing from the river Tejo, in the area where the Town Councils of Castelo Branco, Vila Velha de Rhodão and Proença-a-Nova merge, dates back to the 1950s of the last century and their study addressed, above all, the enormous hydroelectric potential of this dam. Over 70 years, the construction of this dam has gained renewed importance, and its implementation is now imperative, despite the cancellation by this government three years ago. [[PS protests.]] Today, climate change is an increasingly present reality in our day-to-day life and the resulting phenomena, such as the increasingly extreme and prolonged droughts, require that Portugal increasingly needs strategic water reserves that can mitigate the effects that water shortages cause throughout the national territory. This project, which may reach a water storage capacity similar to half that of Alqueva, can provide the irrigation of the south of Beira Baixa and the north of Alentejo, in addition to the Tejo Medium, helping to increase and regularize the flow of the river Tejo. We know today that, increasingly, Spain will ensure less water in the Tejo River, compromising both the minimum flows and the ecological flows, essential to the sustainability of this river, so important to our country; in turn, the quality of the Tejo water from Spain will become worse and worse. The construction of the barrier of Alvito, whose watershed develops exclusively in national territory, will reduce Portugal's dependence on Spain, with an estimated capacity of more than 500 million cubic metres, and will help the Tejo river strengthen its tails, boosting the irrigation in the Tejo Medium and its navigationability, and will help prevent the increasing salinization of this river here in its estuary. The PSD believes that this is an investment of great regional and national scope and that it will have very positive impacts on agriculture, the environment and the local economy, but also on tourism, sport and leisure, helping to combat domestic depopulation and create economic conditions for the establishment of people and businesses in deeply desertification areas in our country. This investment will also contribute to preventing and combating forest fires in the districts of Castelo Branco, Portalegre, Santarém, Leiria and Coimbra, which have been systematically fused by these occurrences, causing tragedies in increasingly impoverished and deprived regions of investment and opportunities. Making the barrier of Alvito is not only to bet on regional development, it is, above all, to give hope to the increasingly forgotten, abandoned and old populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u195	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I regret the discussion we are having here today only because, despite the barrier of Alvito being a project that, as it has been said, the populations, the autarchs and, even, Members of this region had waited decades ago, had been a right government in 2011 to give in to EDP (Energy of Portugal), canceling the barrier of Alvito. The truth must be told! [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this measure, the Members and the Members. Right-wing Members have destroyed hope, revoked concrete and have now tried to pass a sponge on everyone's memory, especially the populations of that region. Alvito was a struggle of the people and the PS carried out the opening of the contest, to which EDP competed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we agree that today's climate change will make us rethink everything, of course we agree that Alvito is not only for hydroelectric use, of course we agree with its potential local development, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't play with the people. In fact, this project was previously awarded to EDP in 2011, and I regret, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members, but I have had this debate all these years here in Parliament. I had this discussion, for example, when Minister Álvaro Santos Pereira came to the Economic Commission. at that time, I asked him what was going on with Alvito's dam and he told me that it had been postponed because EDP had asked for it. I asked you: "When, Minister? For the Greek calendars? He answered me: «I don't know when...» [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] Mr. Minister has deliberately hidden what was being done and no autoarchs, no deputies, nor people have known what was being done! Later, the trial continued and what happened to Alvito? In fact, the projects of the dams of Alvito and Fridão were together in a concession and formed a package to which, within the plan of these dams, at the time of 2008, the companies could have competed. And who's the one who competed? Only EDP! Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? For the concessions of Fridão and Alvitto. What happened next? In 2011, its postponement was requested and the government then granted it ; then, when the notification and award process was already in progress and including the dispatch of the minute of the contract, EDP again requested the postponement of the contract ; in 2013, EDP required its postponement ; in 2014, EDP required its postponement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u197	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. EDP even sent the proposal for revocation with the minute of the contract to the Minister of Height, Moreira da Silva...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u199	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u200	I'm done now, Mr. President. at that time, there were several times that the EDP requested postponement. I do not understand how this was done and at this point we are talking again about Fridan. So I ask: how are you guys doing? Don't you guys say anything about this in these projects?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u201	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u202	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in the face of water and climate change,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u203	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u204	... the Socialist Party continues to see with great interest the barrier of Alvito,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u205	Mr Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u206	...but it was us who always fought for it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u207	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regional development and bet in the productive sectors require adequate planning and investment throughout the territory, training it with the necessary infrastructure for this objective. The White Castle district has many potentials that are about to take advantage of and that await the necessary investments, investments in equipment and infrastructures that enhance the development of productive activity, in particular of agricultural activity, in order to contribute to food sovereignty, reducing our dependence. We understand that, in terms of the development of agricultural activity in the district of Castelo Branco, the priority investment is the construction of irrigation in the southern part of Gardunha, which allows the increase of production and its diversification. The PCP has accompanied the need for the construction of the Alvito dam, claimed by the populations. In view of the likelihood of adverse climate events, including extreme drought, the CFP argues that the country has to prepare. And preparing itself is not when we are already in the middle of drought, preparing means planning and realising investments, in order to increase water storage capacity, to safeguard the existence of water for human consumption and for the economic activities essential to the life of human beings, such as food production for satisfying basic needs. The extreme drought period that the country went through last year revealed that we are not prepared and that the country needs infrastructures that store surface water in order to be able to use it in drought periods. The causes of drought are of different origin and its consequences cannot be separated from the effects of right-wing policies, which have dominated the country. Their greater or lesser impact on people's lives depends on the options taken. It is also important to plan for hydroelectric use, in order to enhance energy production through renewable energy sources and at the same time to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels, purposes that are only possible to achieve in full if the infrastructure is public, if it has public management and is not left to the interests of private groups in the energy field, as has happened in recent years, in the scandalous privatisation business of the Portuguese electro-producer system. We know that energy companies are not concerned about either the environment or the public interest, and what they really want is to manage the dam in order to maximize their economic profitability. It is fair to worry about the flow of the river Tejo, but, as reality demonstrates today, it is not the private management that will guarantee it. Once again, the guarantee of Tejo ecological flows is not guaranteed by companies that manage the dams in this river Safeguard regional development, public interest, the environment and water resources is only possible with public management. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u209	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change, with increasing number of drought periods and rising average temperature are a reality that must be faced with a sense of responsibility. The consequences of these changes are multiple, as many will have to be the answers, both in agriculture, energy production, water supply for human consumption and many others. The construction of the barrier of Alvito, in the district of Castelo Branco, may constitute a part of this response. This dam was integrated into the National Hydroelectric Potential Lift Barrage Plan, being one of the smallest of the 10 originally planned. The environmental impact study refers to a majority positive predisposition of the population before the enterprise, with its expectation being the contribution of the project to local development, job creation and climate regularization, while still expressing concern about issues such as heritage, water resources and landscape. In April 2010 a declaration of environmental impact was issued for the construction of the project, although the lowest quota is subject to the implementation of a set of environmental conditions and measures. There are already two dams in the Ocreza river : Pracana and Santa Águeda, so a new construction will not have a significant impact in terms of the artificialization of the watercourse. On the other hand, the albueira area is of poor soils, without relevant agriculture, only with eucalyptus and some olive villages, without nuclear areas of conservation of nature and biodiversity. In the area there is, of course, and we cannot forget them, a community of abutres that nests there, their survival will have to be guarded and guaranteed. To be built, the barrier of Alvito will have multiple ends: energy, water and human supply, alternative to Castelo de Bode, if necessary, and of medium size. Still, it will avoid pressures for the construction of new dams or dams in the Tejo, contributing to the water in the district of Santarém, without recourse to megalomanous projects of artificialization of the river. at the same time, it will help to contain the rise of the salin in the Low Ribatejo, a problem that has been accentuated. Finally, the new freshwater album will have a non-depositing strategic empowerment effect towards Spain, with regard to the guarantee of the Tejo ecological flows. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We recognize the sensitivity of this matter and the advantages of a serious and deep study that updates the previous reports, incorporating the need to respond to the drought cycles that have intensified in our country. However, looking at the legislative initiatives under discussion, we do not fail to point out the absurdity of the PSD proposal by asking that public works with size and unequivocal environmental impact, as the PSD does, defining the tourist potential as an important point to be assessed. The PSD position is to learn nothing from the mistakes made over the past few decades. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u211	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am pleased to see that there has been quite unanimity in this plenary on this matter, despite any disagreement listed here. First of all, I am addressing Mrs Hortense Martins to tell her that, in fact, the Alvito dam was cancelled in 2011 and our Government has not done anything that the previous Government has done, which has been selling electricity in advance. We didn't have that irresponsibility. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Mrs. Member, we're not stuck in the past. To think and talk about Alvito only as a hydroelectric dam is to stay stuck to the past and we are designing the future. We think the project should be revised, as it was said here, in a multiple-use logic. I therefore welcome the words of the CFP regarding the concern — which indeed the CDS has long expressed — with the need for water storage to prevent the effects of drought. I would also like to say that the Tejo basin, on the Spanish side, can retain 100 % of the amount of water that falls there when we can only retain 20 %. So we have to think about a solution for our Tejo and the whole region. Because we have a government that talks so much about the valorisation of the country's interior, we are in a process of negotiating and programming Community funds, we believe that this cannot stop coming to debate and rethink the future eligibility of cohesion funds, which we cannot let go. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u213	Mrs. Members, we will move on to the fifth point of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July, which establishes the legal regime of inclusive education[ Parliamentary assessments No 68 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 67 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) ]. For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The existence of an inclusive public school that assures all children and young people, irrespective of their characteristics, their origin or culture, their economic or social conditions, the right to learn together in the schools of their communities is inseparable from the guarantee of the human, material and pedagogical means that fulfil this right and the necessary investment to do so. It has been with this fundamental position that the CFP has been intervening over the years and is for this path that we present these proposals, so that the public school has all the necessary professionals and all the educational resources properly adapted to the educational needs of children and young people, to promote equal opportunities, access and educational success, autonomy, family education and social inclusion, emotional stability, the development of communication possibilities and physical and intellectual potentials, overcoming obstacles and their impacts. We clearly safeguard the possibility of continuing studies in different directions, including for higher education, as well as adequate vocational training for these children and young people and their integration into socio-professional life. We understand that parents or education officers should be involved and consulted throughout the process and that the disagreements that may manifest should be properly appreciated and, where possible, accommodated in the report. We expect that there may be more than a multidisciplinary team, that it is coordinated by the special education teacher. We value special education teachers throughout the process and propose that their variable elements include educational action assistants and social workers, among other professionals. We defend that the work done by teachers, in the context of support directed to students, should integrate their educational component. We propose that the necessary training of professionals for follow-up and intervention with these children and young people be free of charge. We provide that, in order to comply with the measures to be implemented, if there is a need for the strengthening of resources, whether they are human, material or pedagogical, the State must ensure that they are made available. It is up to the State to ensure the public response and, therefore, to invest in public school so that all schools are of reference to all students. That no child, that no young person, that no student feels that their specific needs are ignored. Let no one stay outside and that the answers be realized according to the needs of everyone and everyone. These are the proposals that the CFP brings here today so that this path can be made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u215	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that inclusive school is like Eduardo Galeano's idea of utopia, i.e., it exists as a horizon so that we do not forget to keep walking, but we know that it will never be perfect and fully fulfilled. So our responsibility is to move forward more and more and to be able to do better and better. To this end, we all realized that the « revision of the 3 », as was known to the revision of the previous system of inclusive education, special education, was necessary. This regime was challenged, it was identified its need for updating, both in concepts and in practice. They identified the lack of intermediate measures; they identified supervisory pathways, closed educational pathways and rigidity in the classification and identification of special educational needs, which did not enable them to respond to the pedagogical differentiation and to many of those who became known as the « gray students» or « gray cases ». Decree-Law No. 54 / 2018 met the objective of revising Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, establishing enormous principles that guarantee inclusion, to respond to the diversity and potential of each student and each student. This legislation identifies measures to support learning and inclusion, specific curricular areas, the specific resources to be mobilized along the school course of the students. We recognize that it is necessary to produce changes in inclusive education and that this Decree-Law is a step in the right direction. However, this does not mean that he is free of criticism or that he is insusceptible to changes and improvements. in this sense, we would like to leave a criticism, a justification of the amendments we propose and a final note. The criticism is that, regardless of the quality of the diploma, such a structural change that implies changing concepts, functions, organization of resources and also culture of schools cannot be implemented so suddenly. The proof of this is that schools are implementing it at various speeds and all say that they would have had more time to adapt to the new decree which, having been published during the summer, did not give the necessary time for the necessary adaptations. As regards the justification for the amendments, the Left Block makes them three objectives. First, in order to strengthen the role and participation of educational and student officials and also the school's reporting duty in defining and monitoring the measures and the school course of these students. Secondly, to strengthen resources, which means strengthening human resources, allocating hourly credits to teachers and strengthening material resources that should be available to schools in accordance with their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u217	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u218	We also want to strengthen the training of all those who, within the educational community, meet this goal of inclusive school. Thirdly, we want to ensure that the role of specialists and teachers in special education is neither neglected nor neglected in this process. We have sought to include the concerns of the CNE (National Council of Education) in the opinion it gave on this matter and also the concerns that have come to us from the educational community.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u219	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u220	I shall finish, Mr President, by leaving the following final note: we are available for, in the specialty, to find the consensus and the majority necessary to improve this diploma. We have not made any changes of a pedagogical nature or concepts in the expectation that the assessment promised for within a year and a half is a serious assessment of the practice that allows, then, to review some concepts that need to be reviewed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u221	Mr. Secretary of State for Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u222	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 is, as has already been said, an ambitious decree-law. And it is ambitious because it involves the desire to include, it involves thinking practical, it involves human and material resources and because it also has a much broader dimension of inclusion, which includes disability, but it is not only left by disability contexts. And because it's ambitious it's necessarily difficult! The construction process of this decree-law is widely known. There were two years of work, with hundreds of days of discussion, with hundreds of hearing meetings of all, parents, teachers, students, including here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the working group that was created in this field and, in fact, the decree-law includes a calendar of monitoring and mid-term and substantive evaluation at the end of six years. Obviously, because it is difficult, it requires follow-up, it requires resources. And it's worth remembering what we have today and comparing it with what we had. For the second time, there is an increase in the allocation for this area in State Budget. We currently have an average of nine special education teachers per group and we have over 200 psychologists in schools. We included in the teacher's educational component the schedules for specific tutorial support, with a view to working on social and emotional skills and the strengthening of technicians. The school organization of the school year provides for the hiring of technicians or teachers according to the needs of schools: 520 teachers for the early intervention system, 528 teachers for support measures, under the National School Success Promotion Program, 18 500 hours of therapies at the IRC ( Resource Centres for Inclusion), which do not follow the demographic reduction of students covered, thus translates into a net increase of hours. In the country, 52% of existing classes have 20 or less students, 74% of pre-school education groups have fewer than 20 students. We have been training, which since October has already covered more than 13 000 teachers, 550 psychologists, 57 training classes that are currently happening throughout the country with participants from 667 schools. We immediately published the Practice Support Manual, which is a dynamic manual, is not closed and is being updated as new data emerges. FAQ is published (frequentlyasked questions) from the school experience, sharing practices. We are working on the adequacy of the national catalogue of qualifications for disabled students to predict their transition to active life, we are working with a professional school and the Portuguese Association of Asperger Syndrome in order to make a reference for transition plans for active life. Obviously, we know that this is not decreed, because, yes, it is done progressively. It has been said, in all these sessions, that appropriation is progressive, without the withdrawal of support from any student, in the certainty that inclusion is a human right — human rights are not postponed — nor is it expected to have all the conditions, because it will never be all the ideal conditions. So we are not happy with a school that only feels ready to receive students who have less difficulties. It would be strange if there were no doubts. There is therefore a follow-up, and there are doubts because there is indeed a change rather than what was said by the penultimate Minister of Education in this country, who said that students with special educational needs were an administrative problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The new legal regime of inclusive education was launched by the joint government decree of 26 March 2016, which constituted a working group to present amendments to the then-existing Decree-Law No 3 / 2008. This working group would last for 90 days, ending with a renewed and renewed law, transversal to education, social security, health and higher education, a new framework, updated and improved, with all that had been learned in almost 10 years of application in the field of Decree-Law No 3/2008. But those 90 days passed, just as they passed 2016 and 2017, and only in July 2018, with the academic year to be closed, was published the new Decree-Law No 54 / 2018. from that it results in the most frequent criticism of this diploma, of which both requests for parliamentary assessment account: the wrong, inappropriate timing, which hampered the start of the school year for the educational communities involved, due to the lack of ability to prepare, understand and the ability to apply the changes concerned, which is still very significant. We should, however, agree that this oversupply has been overcome by the facts. The school year takes place and now what matters is the quality with which it comes, what positive aspects and what can be improved in the future. For this purpose, Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 itself establishes in its Article 33. the, several moments and monitoring mechanisms throughout the year and until the end of the current school year. The CDS has defended in this Parliament the stability of educational policies and the clear basis for legislative changes. in this sense, it seems as questionable to us the date defined by the Ministry for the entry into force of the law as the timing chosen by the Left Block and the PCP to appreciate it. But since the discussion is open, we understand that it will be to address the concerns of those in the field who are dealing with this new regime — parents, teachers, technicians, directors of all types of public and private establishments and other interested ones and to see whether the difficulties that arise stem from the time needed to appropriate this new logic, or whether it even has to do with the conceptual design of the law, the lack of means to execute it or both. The CDS expresses its willingness to intervene, proposing today a set of amendments to the discussion in the field of expertise, in order to ensure, in fact, an inclusive school, always respecting the best interests of all students and the choices of their families. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The appreciation of the legislative decree required by the PCP and the Left Block brings inclusive education to parliamentary debate. The paradigm of inclusive school, internationally enshrined, since 1994 in the Salamanca Declaration and reiterated in Lisbon in 2015, essentially promotes the principle of educational equity, establishing a society that sees in the difference of each individual a value in itself. A society where the State is committed to creating conditions and ensuring support to all students, regardless of their conditions, answers within a common educational project, which must necessarily be plural in order to be inclusive and equitable. It reinforces the role of regular schools as a means of combating discriminatory attitudes, building an inclusive society and achieving education for all. in this context, in line with a project initiated in the previous legislatures and continued and implemented in the present – therefore, it is more than two years old, Mr. Secretary of State – was published the new legal regime of inclusive education, with which the PSD is globally identified. Having said this, and being certain that the paradigm shift naturally leads to difficulties in implementation, the PSD cannot fail to point out that it is clear today that the government has not properly guarded the conditions of the diploma's operationality, either because of delays in the publication of the new regime and its manual of support, either because of the increase in bureaucracy in schools, or because of the lack of resources to respond to continuous follow-up of the measures, or because of lack of training (and good information) which leads to situations of experimentalism. It's easy to put on paper, it's hard to implement. This diploma presupposes a structural change for society, being notorious for lack of support for its implementation. What is now happening is that schools have neither the means nor the resources to comply with the legislation, something for which the PSD has been systematically alerting and reporting. PSD is aware of the enormous effort that schools, teachers, employees, students and families have made daily to overcome situations of absolutely dramatic shortage and thanks all professionals and all educational communities. It is clear to the PSD that there will have to be simplification of processes, lower dispersion of measures, greater clarification and more resources. Therefore, in a constructive spirit, we present proposals for amendments in which we clarify the constitution of the classes, in the assumption that schools should be determining the size of the classes, as the PSD defended and defended in the initiatives it presented and which were piped; we reinforce the importance of universal preventive measures, including the possibility of preventive and temporary tutorial support; we stress the possibility of mobilizing community resources to ensure effective operationalization; and we impose speed in the Ministry's responses to the needs felt by schools. The proposals that we present have as their sole purpose to supply the needs and enhance valences and aspirations of all students and families, in the perspective of adult, autonomous and quality life. We know that it is not enough to claim inclusion, it is necessary to practice inclusion. It is not enough for the school to say it is inclusive, it is necessary to guarantee conditions for it and, more than having an inclusive classroom context, we are fighting for an inclusive society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u227	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new legal regime of inclusive education is undoubtedly a significant advance in the right direction, a school that serves all students with equity, an education for all and with all. In the many schools that we have visited throughout the country, we systematically collect this witness: a law does not solve all difficulties and shortcomings, nor does it happen instantly, but this is the necessary way. Was it suddenly the publication of the diploma? The truth is that he did not appear by surprise, was prepared for two years by an extended group, had a public discussion. It was accompanied by the Manual of Support for Practice, a training plan covering many thousands of professionals, parents, school leaders. Monitoring teams are running, resources continue to be strengthened, and the Government has clearly pointed out that this is a year of transition and progressive updating of instruments. We are therefore responsible for not introducing noise into this work. Moving in the diploma a few months after the start of the process would be to launch a veil of uncertainty about the ongoing work, hindering the action of educational communities and would be a suggestion of withdrawal to professionals in training. « Training as Members prepare to change the regime? ' — it is the doubt that we do not want to spread. Of course it is necessary to monitor, monitor, evaluate. A monitoring system is in place, the continued evaluation will result in a national balance sheet to be made each year and the scheme will have an implementation evaluation two years after its entry into force and a comprehensive assessment every five years. All this is part of the diploma itself in appreciation. In addition, inclusive practices are now the central element of self-assessment of schools. We take note of the recent opinion of the National Association of Special Education Teachers, the Pro-Inclusion, which makes a series of precise cut-off proposals, because it knows the terrain well and because it knows, as we know, that it is not all done. But with regard to the temptation to make a balance already, the warning of Pro-Inclusion is clear: « This movement seems to us clearly extemporaneous» and « interrupting this experience based on partial data would be unwise». From here we must send a clear message to all those who work in this country outside, with so much dedication for an inclusive education of our children and young people: we will not put your work on hold. More important than a diploma that satisfies the desire for perfection of the legislator is not to cast uncertainty on this path of advancement in inclusive education. It is the responsibility for this human right that will guide the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u229	Mr. Porfirio Silva has timed out very well. For a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must not fail to say that uncertainties were released when the Decree-Law was published and difficulties in schools were effectively felt. There are inadequacies to which answers need to be given and there are problems that exist and that cannot be ignored. It is up to us to work to perfect a diploma that can and should go further, guaranteeing all rights to all children and young people, regardless of their characteristics and needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u231	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u232	I conclude, Mr. President. What the CFP wants with its proposals is that the public school is strengthened and that the State assumes its responsibilities in guaranteeing the right of everyone to education and that this battle for inclusion is not effectively exhausted today. It is a path that is built every day, but we want this path to be built in strengthening public school responses, guaranteeing the right of everyone to education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u233	The government still has time, which was handed over by the CDS. Therefore, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking you for the time that has been given to me by the CDS. I leave three brief notes to some comments that have been made. One aspect referred to as a positive aspect of this Decree-Law is precisely the fact that it provides for greater participation of education officials throughout the process. In fact, in the follow-up part, there are some complaints of increased bureaucracy, but it is worth remembering that the Decree-Law does not prescribe any bureaucracy, gives schools freedom to build their documents, and in the practice manual there are quite synthetic documents that serve as a model. Finally, with regard to resources, I would like to say that, as a moment of transition, we have placed a team in the DGE and in the Directorate-General for Education to monitor all cases reported to us and the priority of allocation of resources by DGE has been first of all for students with educational needs that are covered by Decree-Law No 54 / 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u235	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u236	I conclude, Mr. President. If there were no doubts and hesitations, something would be very wrong. What was being done was to transform Decree-Law No. 3/2008 into Decree-Law No. 54/2018 without proper appropriation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u237	We have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We turn to the assessment of Petition No 138 / XIII / 1. a ( Movement to eradicate poverty ) — They call on the Assembly of the Republic to promote a debate on poverty eradication. Mr José Rui Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Petitioners: Today we are debating Petition No 138 / XIII / 1. the, presented by the Movement to eradicate poverty, which calls on the Assembly of the Republic to promote a debate on poverty eradication. The petitioners want more humane solutions for a more equitable society to be found with this debate. The petition we are now examining is in line with all this government's programming on measures to combat poverty and social exclusion. In fact, this was the framework we found in 2015: the worsening of the conditions of risk of poverty and social exclusion of Portuguese people, which required firm measures and urgent intervention. To halt this increase, it was necessary to recover family income, increase the national minimum wage, reduce unemployment, improve wages, improve pensions, create new forms of social support more tailored to the needs of the most vulnerable citizens, end precarious situations or decrease them in public employment, improve the tax system in order to benefit the most vulnerable families or lower incomes, extend school social action, improve access to the health system by people with lower incomes. According to the 2017 Life and Income Survey, produced by the European Anti-Poverty Network in Portugal, this year there was an improvement in indicators of poverty and social exclusion, the decrease in the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion, the decrease in the risk rate of monetary poverty and the decrease in severe material deprivation. According to this survey, we have a lower proportion and a lower number of people at risk of poverty, thus indicating an effective improvement. According to the same survey, the poverty risk rate or social exclusion decreased by 1, 8 % compared to the previous year and there was a decrease of 196 000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This 2017 rate has recorded the lowest value since 2004, at which point the analysis of this indicator began. We know that there is always much to be done about poverty and social exclusion, but it is not difficult to recognize the progress made in these four years of governance. A strategy for eradicating poverty and social exclusion must therefore be cross-cutting and should adequately cover all situations and protect all citizens at risk or in situations of poverty. This strategy has been ongoing for four years and has already produced results. That's how we're on the right track. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u239	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Poverty has a structural and persistent character in Portugal, it is not a conjuncural reality. Almost half of the people in Portugal have experienced, at some point in their lives, a situation of poverty. In 2017, the incidence of poverty reached 17, 3 % of the total population. This was the lowest of this rate since the INE began publishing it annually — do so since 1995 — and was a percentage value below, therefore 18, 3 % of what had been registered in 2016. That is to say, in this period there were about 100 000 Portuguese who left the poverty situation. But Portugal has not yet been able to eliminate the offensive weight of a reality that constitutes a violation of human rights, as in fact the Assembly of the Republic declared in a decision taken in 2008 following a petition promoted by the National Justice and Peace Commission. Portugal is still one of the countries of Europe with the greatest poverty and the highest levels of inequality. In our country, 1, 7 million citizens remain in poverty, a significant part of which is children and young people. For this reason, public policies and society as a whole still have a huge path to move towards eradicating this phenomenon. On behalf of the Left Block, I wanted to greet the petitioners about the alert they launch with this petition. In Portugal, only in the early 1980s of the 20th century did the first systematic studies on the reality of poverty begin to appear and only in the 1990s was the first National Programme to Combat Poverty. In 2008, as I said, the Assembly of the Republic unanimously declared poverty as leading to the violation of human rights. The assumption of poverty not only as a social and economic problem but also as a violation of fundamental rights was precisely aimed at giving new impetus to State responsibility and meeting the objective of poverty eradication in all public policies and normative acts, establishing a concrete strategy for this purpose. We know, however, that the period that followed revealed that these expectations would come true. It was the period of austerity, it was the period of external intervention, it was the period of troika and it was the period when there was a brutal increase of indicators of poverty and the situations of social suffering of families in Portugal. The fight against poverty requires attention and awareness throughout the spectrum of political intervention, from measures related to the distribution of wealth to economic policies, to the regulation of work and to those affecting the existence of social minimums — from health care to education, from housing to transport and from combating discrimination, including neighbouring actions, or macro-political actions in the various sectors. The assessment of the impact on poverty of each measure discussed in Parliament is one of the dimensions of knowledge, monotorization and accountability of all in combating and eradicating poverty. Such an assessment, as has been suggested by the European Anti-Poverty Network, is a way of strengthening a multidimensional perspective in the fight against poverty and its eradication and ensuring that all national policies and legislative acts are evaluated as regards its foreseeable impact — positive, neutral or negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u241	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u242	I will finish, Mr. President. The Left Block presented, a week ago, a project that aims precisely to have an annual debate on poverty in the Assembly of the Republic, as proposed by this petition, but that there is also a previous assessment of the impact on poverty of all the actions of this House. We understand that, thus, eradicating poverty becomes not only an objective nor a sectoral policy but a concern for all the policies of this Parliament and our concrete acts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u243	Mrs. Members, at the end of the previous point, it has not been announced — I now do so — that proposals for amendments to Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 submitted by the CDS-PP, the PSD, BE and the CFP, which fall to 8. the Commission for consideration in the speciality. Having resumed the course of this debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like now to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Movement to eradicate poverty and its representatives, here present, to attend the discussion of this petition, as well as the thousands of petitioners who have subscribed to it and who thus call on the Assembly of the Republic to discuss phenomena as important as poverty and social exclusion, which continue to be realities lived by hundreds of thousands of families and, indeed, as the petitioners identify, for more than 2 million people in our country. Although there is, statistically, a reduction in the rate of risk of poverty, as it is possible to identify in the analysis that the National Anti-Poverty Observatory makes about the provisional data of the survey on living conditions and incomes, carried out in 2018, a reality that is not disconnected from the path of replacement of rights and incomes by which the CFP has been beaten, it is necessary to go further in combating poverty and social exclusion in order to effectively eradicate it. Poverty and social exclusion are not inevitable, they are realities that result from various factors and result from political options for decades deeply linked to the unjust distribution of wealth and the process of concentration of wealth that several governments have promoted over many years. Currently, 1% of the population has around 25% of the national wealth and 5% of the population accumulates almost 50% of the national wealth, which is deeply revealing the huge social inequalities that persist. This is one of the fundamental and structural causes that should always be taken into account when making decisions and discussing these matters. This social scourge also has its origin the low wages—in fact, it is important to remember here that there are workers who, by receiving their wages, are in a state of poverty, but also situations of unemployment, precariousness, inadequate social protection, increased cost of living in essential goods and services. For this reason, the CFP has stated, inter alia, that the fight against poverty and social exclusion must be done by intervening in its causes, without prejudice to social emergency measures to be taken. The path to poverty eradication is inseparable from the creation of jobs with rights, the dynamisation of national production, the general increase in wages, in particular the national minimum wage, as the CFP here proposed, for 650 €, the increase in pensions and reforms, for which the CFP has both beaten, the strengthening of social protection. But this path to the eradication of poverty also goes through the effective fulfilment by the State of its social functions, ensuring a universal, general and free National Health Service, by a free public school of quality and for everyone, by access to a decent housing, by the deterioration of the tax burden on workers, among other measures that mattered to be taken. The CFP has intervened and has been presenting proposals on all these issues and is in proposals of the CFP that also have the origin of resolutions taken in the Assembly of the Republic of Poverty Combating Women and Child Poverty, and it is never too much to remember the resolutions of 2008, in which poverty has been characterized as a violation of human rights, resolutions that make governments responsible for implementing public policies to eradicate poverty in our country. This is, of course, a struggle that the CFP will continue to have. We will continue to intervene and beat ourselves on a path of progress and social justice and effective eradication of poverty and social exclusion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u245	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the petitioners attending the session on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. The movement that led to the presentation of this petition on the eradication of poverty originated in a context that is very linked to the time of the troika in 2014, with the social, labor and economic consequences of this serious moment that the country lived. in a second meeting, which took place in 2016, there was an opportunity to deepen the first motivations, including by defining a national poverty eradication strategy, which lists several aspects of poverty: lasting poverty, poverty in women, poverty and austerity policy and combating poverty. I believe that, first of all, we must welcome a movement that emerges from citizenship and from the lack of conformity in relation to a reality that affects so many Portuguese citizens, and it should be noted that, surely, the theme of poverty assesses what political action should be every day. Political action should, first of all, be aimed at those who need it most and, therefore, regardless of the different ways that we all certainly have to go against this fight and to reduce poverty, I am sure that we accept that our goal should be to reduce poverty, to reduce the number of people who suffer from it. One of the things that seems absolutely fundamental to me to recognize is that it is not because we are talking a lot about poverty, the poor and the rights of those who suffer that reinforce the situation of these same people. Since this debate coincides on the day when in a country such as Venezuela, where a regime was said, precisely on behalf of the poor, on behalf of those who suffer most in the name of all this reality, this represented a huge increase in poverty, a huge reinforcement of suffering and therefore a scandalous clash between what was promised and, after that, the reality that has come to the fore.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u247	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u248	In fact, this has historically been the case: often those who speak most in the name of the poor, in the name of those who suffer contribute in a more serious and more marked way to this reality. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] This only shows that, in fact, if we all agree on the reality, the human drama and the mystery that it also represents from the deep point of view of our existence, we disagree, of course, when we seek to understand what measures must be taken. The petition talks, for example, about the importance of job creation. I believe that we all agree that job creation is actually linked to poverty reduction. Job creation, the dynamism of the economy, the possibility of asserting ourselves competitively with other economies all this are ways that reinforce the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u249	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u250	That is why, Mr President, and with this end, in a matter where it is difficult to be synthetic precisely because of its complexity, it seems to us essential that the fight against poverty be associated with issues such as the fight against corruption, which causes poverty. A policy that does not strengthen freedom, that does not strengthen and that does not consider effort and merit also contributes to the increase of poverty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u251	Mr Rui Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u252	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After three decades of plans and strategies to eradicate poverty and one without a number of measures, we find that it persists with a relevant dimension. They certainly did not help 12 years of socialist governments, which led the country to deep financial crises, and certainly did not help almost two decades of weak economic growth. Despite some advances, we are concerned that 2 million people are still at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Portugal, i.e. more than one fifth of the Portuguese population. More than creating new social support measures, it is essential: to ensure intervention and social inclusion, or that it is designed, planned, executed in an integrated way; to assume a serious and comprehensive commitment among all — actors involved and beneficiaries; and a deep capacity for linking between public bodies and civil society; it is necessary to combine financial support policies to families with effective measures for social integration and integration into the labour market, with measures that nullify the mechanisms supporting the transmission of poverty between generations. Even though the plans are kinder than the plans, the strategies are wise and the measures are timely, they will always clique in the face of weak economic growth. Only robust and sustained economic growth could sustain a plan or strategy to eradicate poverty. We are talking about significant and prolonged economic growth well over 3 %, as Mr President of the Republic said, economic growth which supports, without sacrifice, policies for the recovery of income, continuous creation of better and better skilled employment, policies for the qualification and modernisation of public services and the expansion of the social state. But after all, the government has been rebuffed and recorded ever-increasing economic growth. Instead of expecting pushes from the world economy, it was necessary to wager bravely in Portuguese business fabric, eliminating entropies in production, export, competitiveness and internationalisation. In an intelligent way, it was necessary to degrade the tax burden, thus promoting, and at the same time, the dynamisation of the private initiative and the value of income. And because we did not have relevant economic growth, we opted for the sacrifice of public services, we opted for the increase in public debt, it became necessary to maintain and worsen the tax burden and it became necessary to live with austerity and poverty. The basic task of the Government was to make the country more resilient to crisis cycles, to promote categorically economic growth, to facilitate opportunities and to guarantee competences to those who needed them. It was not an easy task, nor an immediate outcome policy, so they lacked courage and will. That's why the government failed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u253	Mrs. Members, at the end of this debate, we turn to Petition No 189 / XIII / 2. a ( Call Center Workers' Union — STCC ) — Regulation of the professional activity of call center workers, in order to be considered as a rapid wear occupation. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, the 4780 citizens who have subscribed to the petition of the Call Center Workers' Union to recognize their activity as a rapidly worn-out profession. Regardless of the different views on the object of this petition, of the concrete solutions that this petition advocates, it is an important contribution, in our view, to a more informed and concrete debate on the reality of the work in which many workers in the call centers live. The high number of subscribers to this petition, in a sector where the collective organization of workers is particularly fragile, ends up being a good indicator of the existence of these problems. Personally, I know this reality, not only as a PS Member who accompanies the labour issues in the Assembly of the Republic, not only as rapporteur for this petition, but also as a part-time worker at the time of my graduation in a call center. I know that a lot of what is described here is true. The call centres employ thousands of people in Portugal today, corresponding to an important share of our GDP, cover many sectors, ranging from energy to insurance, telecommunications to tourism, and that is why it is important that we pay particular attention to the conditions of their labour relations and working conditions within the call centres. If there are many observers, we also know that there are many who are not, which is translated not only in this petition, but also in the numerous complaints that continue to reach the PS Parliamentary Group and, among many others, to the many cars that the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) has been raising relative to the call centres. We identify intense work rhythms, constant shifts, harassment, few or no breaks, work in spaces closed with huge noise, a lot of pressure, bad conditions, impossibility, often, from simple going to the bathroom, ergonomic problems, tendinitis, burnout. We know that all of this exists, in addition to a huge stain of precariousness, temporary work and poor remuneration. More profit and less salary is what has happened in recent years in this sector of activity. Between 2016 and 2017, the turnover of the call centers tripled in Portugal, reaching almost 300 million euros, but the average wage paid to its workers decreased by 23 € in the same period. This is not acceptable, obviously! None of this is fair and none of this is the vision we share for a more cohesive economy, for a fairer economy and for a more competitive economy. The rapid wear status, which is requested here, deserves, in our view, a broader debate in the context of collective bargaining, and also deserves a broader overall view by the legislator of all professions. But this status is not the only way we have to provide workers with more guarantees, more rights and more conditions for the exercise of the profession. I would therefore like to leave here today, in the discussion of this petition, a message from the Socialist Party to the petitioners and all the workers in this sector who follow this petition carefully: we have heard what they said to us and we will not give this dossier for closing this afternoon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u255	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u256	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to welcome the petitioners here for bringing the debate in Parliament to such an important issue. From the beginning, the Left Block has been monitoring the concerns raised and has been working to pass legislation that has a positive impact on their resolution. to work in call centers has not been given, so far, we find due attention by political forces, although, in fact, it is not a very new reality. In fact, it has been in our country for a few decades and its evolution has gone hand in hand with the evolution of temporary work enterprises and service or outsourcing companies, which is not unlike the precariousness here. The propagation of call centers to operate in our country was fast and today it covers virtually all sectors of activity and employs tens of thousands of workers. Furthermore, from 2016 to 2017, the turnover of these companies increased from EUR 90, EUR 5 million to EUR 287, EUR 5 million while the average monthly wage of these workers fell by 3 %. It's unacceptable! However, despite all this and all the complaints that come daily, this sector is still a sector without specific regulations, which creates problems to which it works in these places, which are well identified in the petition: times that do not sympathize with the work rhythm required, much of it by shifts or nights; very short breaks, when there are; they run into existing legislation regarding the possibility of performing physiological needs, for example; a highly potent climate of moral harassment; the appearance of diseases of the auditory, respiratory, ergonomic or psychological forum, where burnout prevails and exhaustion. Therefore, following the concerns of the workers, the Left Block has made its way, either in the aggressive limitation of the use of temporary work, with a proposal under discussion in the specialty that reduces grounds for the use of this modality, or also in the fight against rapid wear in the work by shift and night, in which we defend reduced hours, more days of rest or early retirement based on shift work. The work in the specialty is ongoing and, despite the resistance of the right and the PS, we are fighting for this law to advance and also protect the workers of the call centers. In addition, we also have another fight to do, and for that reason we have even entered a draft resolution with two main objectives today. First, the fight against false outsourcing. We demand an inspection national action, allowing to create a general framework of precariousness and to regulate problems encountered during this inspection action.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u257	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u258	Secondly, we propose the regulation of the profession. It must be done by the Government, therefore we propose that the Government proceed to this regulation, taking into account, in particular, the working time—and, in particular, the effective time on-line—to the need for an increased time interval per hour on-line, minimum intervals between calls and increased follow-up of hygiene, health and safety at work in this sector of activity, considering the existing studies that point to increasing damage to the health of these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u259	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u260	Finally, Mr President, the petitioners and the workers of the call centres know that they have the Left Block for the debate, but also for the effective fight that exists regarding the deregulation of the sector and the abuses experienced by thousands of workers daily, saying that the classification of rapid wear is not the only solution, Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the regulation also, therefore, we will have the opportunity, very soon, to discuss this project in this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u261	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u262	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS, I would like to greet the 4780 petitioners who request the regulation of the professional activity of call center workers, in order to be considered as a profession of rapid wear and tear. The CDS recognizes that, in recent decades, there has been a considerable increase in workers active in call centers. The technological world and with increasing number of digital and telephone contacts has been moving towards this increase in non-presental contacts and companies that provide services in this area, particularly in the sale of products. As in other areas, also in this need to find regulatory instruments that safeguard rights and duties of those who perform this activity did not evolve at the same pace as the activity was evolving. The CDS recognizes that, as in all work activity, there is a genuine penocity in call center, and it is clear that there are also different types of workers who have been working in call centers for decades, but there are also other workers who temporarily exercise this activity, including university students or others, who play it in part-time. Despite this reality, what we consider essential is the improvement of the framework of this activity itself and what is the penosity of the exercise of this profession, that is, the profession needs to be more regulated. They are also, of course, necessary instruments of collective regulation between these professionals and the companies that develop this activity and thus allow to avoid any of the penosity that is the same profession. in relation to the qualification of the profession as a rapid wear occupation, we consider that there is a need for prior steps in order for this analysis to be made, among them collective bargaining and the definition of these regulatory instruments so that first the analysis of this penosity is done and thus seek to reduce these same difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u263	The CDS defending collective bargaining? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u264	For now, as we know, it is clear that we have professions that are currently qualified as rapid wear and that it will only be possible to equating other professions in this way by setting them in the overall number of professions in this same situation. To this end, it is necessary for collective bargaining to achieve the necessary objectives: to reduce penosity through collective bargaining instruments and that are prior to this rapid wear qualification. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u265	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD wants to congratulate the nearly 5,000 petitioners who have brought to Parliament the problem of the difficult working conditions of call center operators. It is a hard profession — the PSD knows and cares. It is a difficult profession, but the left ones don't want to know, and the proof is that we are already in the fourth year of the legislature and continue everything as far as regulation of the profession is concerned. It is a profession with high rates of precariousness, and the PSD is concerned. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] On the left, there is much talk about precariousness, but they are happy to talk. Instead of decreasing, with the left-wing Government precariousness increased significantly in the state, in the private sector and also in the call centers. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, with the left in power for four years, there are no specific standards for safeguarding the safety and health of operators, but no studies are known to protect those who are involved in the profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u267	What studies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u268	We must therefore regret that the Government, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, like to say generalities and abstractions on the problems of workers, when it comes to doing concrete things, when it comes to the real problems of people little or nothing to do to solve them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u269	This is the same intervention last week! He beat the papers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u270	The generality of the workers of the call centres is targeted every day at serious work risks, Mrs. Members, these are serious occupational risks because of the positions they are forced by the repetitive movements, by the visual effort, by the electromagnetic radiation, by the noise and constant stress to which they are subjected. PSD knows and cares. We are also concerned that a large number of call centers operators are young people who are licensed, forced to accept work because of the lack of qualified jobs that are compatible with their qualifications. As one of the main claims of the petitioners that the profession is classified as being of rapid wear, seriousness compels us to say that this claim must be decided sustainably, based on studies showing its physical and psychological consequences when developed for long periods of time. The problem is that there are no studies because the government has not done so. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the lack of regulation of the profession is also the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, because only it can make scope or conditions of work. Mrs. Petitioners, the PSD would very much like to see your problems and other problems in the country solved, but the one who sends today in Portugal is the radical left and that only knows how to promise. They promise everything to entertain themselves, then, inventing excuses from the bad payer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u271	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u272	In fact, to those who still listen to the PS, the PCP and the Left Block there are two ideas that are imposed: they will not fulfill what they have promised and they only need to attribute the blame to the Marquis de Pombal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u273	These are really last week's papers! Mr. Deputy has made it all wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u274	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u275	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the revitalization of this petition and all its subscribers. The CFP monitors the objectives of creating and regulating the profession of contact centre operator, strengthening rest and rest rights and improving working conditions. The PCP does not do as the PSD, which enjoys the concrete reality that these workers are confronted with, because what the PSD here did was disregard the reality with which about 80,000 workers in this country are confronted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u276	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u277	The seriousness of this debate will force me to continue and ignore the intervention of the PSD. The workers of the call centers have reasons to fight. In our country it will be about 80 000, which every day add to the profits of large companies and economic groups, but they only know very low wages, precariousness, exhausting work rhythms, bad working conditions. There are workers who, throughout their entire lives, perform the same functions for the same company, jumping between several temporary and outsourcing companies without ever having a link to the company to whom they build profits. Moreover, the profits of these user companies are proportional to the worsening of the exploitation, to the degradation of the conditions of hygiene and safety at work, to the brutal intensification of the rhythms and methods of work, to the impacts on the physical and psychological health of workers. This is the example of large economic groups of telecommunications, energy, insurance, finance, among others. Combating precariousness is essential, full respect for longer and regular periods of rest and rest is essential, reducing working hours and ensuring appropriate working paces for the performance of functions. The CFP presents today proposals that it wants to see discussed soon and where we will have the opportunity to listen to the various parties, we hope that more seriously, to discuss with rigour the issues we bring here. We propose the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centre operator, including recognition of appropriate professional categories. We propose that specialized and paid training be compulsory. We propose that the Government carry out an inspection, through the ACT, throughout the national territory, with a view to compliance with the law and monitoring of working conditions, taking the subsequent sanctions — sanctions, non-pedagogic. We propose that a report be drawn up on the conditions of hygiene, health, safety and working conditions in this sector, monitoring the number of effective workers, the number of precarious workers, the conditions of work instruments, among other matters. We propose something very important, sirs. Members: the strengthening of health care to be carried out semi-annually to these workers, including medical examinations of optometry, ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology and musculoskeletals. We also propose the obligation to ensure that each worker has his own, personal and non-transmissible equipment. The CFP has denounced various examples in which the use of outsourcing and temporary work enterprises to respond to permanent needs has served to pay poor wages, impose more time and, Mrs. Members, do not apply the collective contract. Because you know very well what they're saying when they say what they said about collective bargaining here: you know very well that EDP does not apply collective hiring in the call center of EDP because it doesn't want to; you know very well that Fidelity does not apply collective hiring to workers of the call center of Évora because you don't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u278	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u279	Therefore, it is not due to lack of collective bargaining, it is due to lack of political will and willingness to recognize rights. But here we will be with the workers, in a daily struggle, for their valorisation, for the fight against precariousness and for the creation and regulation of the profession of call center operator. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u280	Having concluded the examination of the petition, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to make a few announcements to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the Proposals of Law No 177 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens the fight against tax evasion practices by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164, which drops to 5. the Commission, and 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons in the field of the impartiality of credit institutions and other financial institutions, which also falls to 5. the Commission. The Bill No. 1085 / XIII / 4 was also accepted. a ( PAN) — Assigns the National Institute of Statistics competence for the processing of statistical data relating to Tauromachic activity, which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-24.u282	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains - to announce the agenda for tomorrow, Friday. The meeting will start at 10 a.m., taking into account the first item on the agenda the election of a member to the Higher Council of National Defence, which will take place in parallel with our work. the second point is the 15th year discussion with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, the vote will take place. There's nothing else to deal with, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Good afternoon to all and to all. [[It was 18 hours and 10 minutes.]]
