ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. We will begin the session with the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the basis of the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII — Maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service. I shall then read the above message from His Excellency the President of the Republic: « 1. Decree-Law No 235 / 2006 of 6 December welcomed the installation, opening and functioning of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service. 2. Decree-Law No 241 / 2009 of 16 September amended Decree-Law No 235 / 2006 extending the possibility of the application of such a regime to other hospitals — by own diploma, never published — but, above all, excluded the direct exploitation of the pharmacy by the hospitals themselves, determining their management by granting, granting such a prior invitation to tender and which could not be extended, enjoying the concessionaires — at the date of the new competition — only of the right of preference in it. 3. On the basis of this legal regime seven concessions were constituted, of which only one — whose contract would expire on 1 April 2019 — was in force in 2016, the year in which the current Government approved Decree-Law No 75 / 2016 of 8 November 2016. 4. The above-mentioned Decree-Law No 75 / 2016 of 8 November repealed Decree-Law No 241 / 2009 of 16 September with a double basis: that if they had not demonstrated, in practice, the principles of public interest and accessibility, inspiring the revoked diploma, and that the existing community pharmacy network was sufficient. In honor of the rights set up, it saved, however, until its end, the existing concessions, which would cover the only one in such circumstances. 5. Three legislative initiatives have recently focused on the same subject. Two of the same content, with a view to re-establishing, in general and abstract terms, the 2009 regime — a popular legislative initiative and a draft law of the NAP — and a third, a bill of the Left Block, proposing the supply of medicines to the public by hospital pharmacies that supply the hospital's own services. The two draft laws, of a party initiative, were rejected. 6. It was therefore the only popular legislative initiative to survive. This initiative had general and abstract content, i.e. by re-establishing the 2009 regime - it did so for an indeterminable universe of de facto situations and recipient entities. 7. The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII, now subject to promulgation, radically altered the content of the alluded popular legislative initiative: 1. it was limited to re-establishing the 2009 legal regime, for hospital pharmacies existing on 1 March 2019, for the purposes of its maintenance in operation. 2. the extension of the concession contracts still in force for three months or until the completion of the public tender procedure, if it was launched within that period. 3. the Reconsisted concessions ceased since 1 March 2019, applying to them the same extension regime as those still in force. In other words, where the popular legislative initiative had enshrined a general and abstract solution, it states the decree now appreciated a concrete and individual solution. It is concrete and individual because it applies to a single de facto situation and to a single recipient entity. Moreover, the Decree under consideration, at the time it is approved and sent for promulgation, not only addresses a concrete concession and an existing specific concessionaire, allowing the latter to exercise the right of preference in future concession under the 2009 regime, as it re-in force expired concession, thus guaranteeing the exercise of the aforementioned right of preference. 8. All that is said to mean that the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII, by its singularity, raises several questions, of a social order, and therefore political, which are now to be stated and whose dilucidation is essential to the judgment on it formulated: 1. why does it exclude the direct management of the concrete pharmacy, to which it is addressed by the hospital itself, instead of choosing to grant such management? 2. Why, by opting for the concession, approves only one in particular, excluding the reprisination of the abstract concession regime? 3. why, in making sense the existence of a concession only in particular, does it intend to favour a certain private entity and, more specifically, an entity that no longer enjoys a right of preference, because its concession has expired? And why, by doing so by individual law, does the solution for opening a public invitation to tender, without the right of preference, i.e. competition to which the former concessionaire could submit itself in full parity with other virtual competitors, thus leaving the competent administrative authority its decision? 9. the answer to the questions raised stems from the adequacy or insufficiency of the political foundation for a singular law, establishing an obviously exceptional regime. 10. As for the first question, there is a totally non-existence of an explanation of the reasons for excluding direct management by the hospital of the targeted concrete pharmacy. If there are compelling social reasons to keep it in operation, are these reasons inextricably linked to a concession? The legislative process is omitted on this precise issue. 11. As far as the second question is concerned, there is insufficient information from the same legislative procedure. It is perfectly legitimate to change political orientation, returning to 2009, against 2016, in particular because nothing prevents a government or its base of parliamentary support from changing orientation in the same legislature, or that a majority of parliament alters a governmental solution during it. But this does not explain why if it does not include a general and abstract formula, which can apply to more than a de facto situation and to more than one recipient entity. That there may be strong local reasons for maintaining a concession in the future and this has not affected, or has affected the activity of Community pharmacies, it is admitted, until the available documentation results in the community's favourable judgment to the concession and clearly does not result in the aforementioned assignment, past, present or future. But these local reasons alone do not explain the non-opening of the same solution in similar situations. 12. As regards the third question, it is even more incomprehensible why a specific concession should be maintained, it must be guaranteed a privileged position to a specific private entity, which was, but is no longer, concessionary, and the law replaces the administrative authority in the decision of its procedure. The argument of the right of preference — provided for in the 2009 legal regime which is intended to be reintroduced — applies to existing dealers, not to those who have ceased to be. The argument that only the vicissitudes of the legislative process explain that it took so long that the concession, however, has expired, is also circumstantial in excess. The question is another: is there, in fact, a very heavy reason, besides the recognition to whom the community served five years, in a situation which one knew would end, in order to remove the completeness of the virtualities of a public contest, competition between all potential candidates and the corresponding administrative decision? The legislative process is not only clearly insufficient in this particular, as it seems to arise doubts, particularly in explanations of vote, as to the solidity of the reasons available in this particular. 13. The unequivocal adequacy of the political basis would be to impose-CL on a single law, which includes an exceptional regime. This is not what happens with this diploma. 14. Thus, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, returned the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII — Maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in the hospitals of the National Health Service, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to clarify the above-mentioned issues in order to substantiate the well-known promulgation'. I have thus come to the end of reading this important text by Mr President of the Republic, which, as you can see, is not silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u2	On the trip from China to here, you had time for it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I would ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President to Law Nos 200 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for the realization of medical and forensic expertise, which goes down to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes mechanisms for settling disputes involving the competent authorities of Portugal and other Member States of the European Union as a result of the interpretation and application of international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1852, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 1208 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change Law No. 24 / 2009 of May 29, in order to integrate a member appointed by the Order of Portuguese Psychologists into the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1209 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of the alternative residence of minors in the event of divorce of judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, which falls to 1. the Commission, as well as parliamentary assessments Nos 133 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Decree-Law No. 45 / 2019 of 1 April approving the Organics of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ( ANEPC ), and 134 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April approving the Organics of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ( ANEPC ). Finally, they also entered the Bureau and were also admitted to draft resolutions Nos 2137 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the relocation of the Port Military Museum to implement the « From Heroism to Firmeza - Museum of Antifascist Resistance of the Port », which falls to 12. the Commission, 2138 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government rectify the working time count of local and coastal fishing workers for the purpose of pensions and reforms and the proper replacement of their rights, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2139 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government study the creation of a national strategy on anemia, which falls to 9. the Commission, 2140 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government launch the process of construction of the upper school of health of the Polytechnic Institute of Setúbal, 2141 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Simplification of access to the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2142 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Contribution to the enhancement of forest production, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2143 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Taking on extraordinary constitutional review powers to grant the right of suffrage to citizens aged 16 years and under 1. the Commission, 2144 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government value the experience gained and the evaluation of PEPAC and PEPAL trainees in the context of competitive procedures open in the Public Administration and Local Administration, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2145 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the extension of the network of tourism teams, and the establishment of the specific police programme « Safe Tourist », of the competence of the Public Security Police, which falls to 1. the Commission, 2146 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government amend Law No 63 / 2007 of 6 November ( Organic of the Republican National Guard ) in order to reinstitute the Traffic Brigade, which falls to 1. the Commission, 2147 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a set of actions to combat road-trafficking, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2148 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Moratorium for the installation of intensive and superintensive olive and almonds, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 2149 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Azambuja High School and proceed to the urgent removal of all fibrosis coverage. It is also important to inform that Mr André Silva, from the NAP, withdrew the Bill No 1092 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, Decree-Law No. 89 / 2009 and Decree-Law No. 91 / 2009, both of 9 April, extending parental leave in the event of premature birth. Finally, Mr President, it is also important to take into account the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which relates to the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Statute of the Deputies of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ), an electoral circle of Lisbon, being replaced by Ricardo Leon, on 9 and 16 May 2019, limiting itself to the period of the days indicated and ending at the end of these days. The opinion is in the sense of suspension and the replacement in question is to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements. The opinion should now be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now enter the period for political declarations, being the first of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for a political statement, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The outbreak of a supposed political crisis is beginning to turn into an outrage in the face of increasingly evident political manipulation. The Prime Minister has announced his resignation if the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic confirms the decision of the Education Committee to fully account for the hours of service of teachers and other special careers. The government's unexpected position contrasts with the political practice that has existed since 2015, where votes in which the PS or the government have been defeated have been overcome with political normality, even reaching the best solutions. When the Government and the PS wanted to break the agreements on the left and reduce the TSU (unique social rate) of the employers for social security, it was this House that rejected this possibility. Is there a crisis there? No, the economy was even better because the special payment was eliminated on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). When the Government and the PS wanted to impose opacity on the statement of estate of the administrators of the General Deposit Box, the Left Block proposed and this House rejected this opacity. As a result, the administration of Caixa has resigned in full process of restructuring the public bank. Did this mean any crisis? No, it was easily surpassed and today the General Deposit Box is stronger. What happened, then, now? Why has Mr. Prime Minister changed his attitude? And why has today ceased to want to negotiate and overcome the impossible, to become the pinnacle of inevitability and insurmountable barriers? The only justification for Prime Minister Antonio Costa wants to create an artificial political crisis is the ambition of an absolute electoral majority. Pure political game! [[Congratulations from BE.]] If last week we said that this crisis was artificial, we have no doubts today. Data from the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support (UTAO) provide a definitive and necessary clarification and demonstrate how Minister Mário Centeno has put together the financial script of this artificial crisis, based on lies. We understand that they are accounts for the Eurogroup: it estimates half the costs with the bank, as was the example of the New Bank, in the last State budget, to now load, double, in numbers, when it touches the rights of workers. But the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support rejects absolutely the Government and Mário Centeno : it shows that the values presented are inflated, which include expenditure already planned for other purposes, which deliberately confuses net values and gross values — what the State recovers in taxes and contributions for social security and ADSE (Assistance to State Server Disease) is not accounted for in the proposal for Mário Centeno — that the schedule taken by the Government for calculating the effect of the measures proposed by no party in this House of the Republic has ever been proposed and that no timetable has been voted on in the Commission, that the measures have zero, repeat, zero impact on the State budget for 2019 — this full recovery does not alter either € 1 in the State budget — that the medium-term objectives are not at stake with what was approved in the Commission and that there is a net difference of EUR 398 million between what was announced by the Government and what would result from the implementation of the maximum measure, and what would result from not being implemented. But this crisis of credibility does not only reach the Prime Minister and the numbers of Mário Centeno. The PSD now gives the statement for not saying and clearly shows what comes: it wants to recognize a right, but does not want to pay it; it promises teachers who are present wrapped in the role of the troika, attracting respect for the rights of teachers for the calendars of European goals. Rui Rio, yesterday, was completely caught in his line of contradictions: he said that nothing was decided in last week's votes, when his own Parliamentary Group, by the voice of Mrs Margarida Mano, said that, and I quote, "as regards the rest of the time, the negotiation between the parties was enshrined what we considered to be correct. Unfortunately, the criteria for sustainability and financial health have been dropped (...) In any case our vote will allow the government to go for negotiation with all degrees of freedom". But I also said, Rui Rio that it is in favour of comparing the thawing with retirements, but the PSD Parliamentary Group voted against this proposal of the Left Block and added, showing total ignorance, that the Left Block wanted everything for now, when what we proposed, and the PSD did not want, was a timetable for the phase-up. But the CDS goes exactly the same way. Assumption Christians will be known for « grasp me, that I will go to him». For weeks now, the CDS has tabled a motion of censure to bring down, seriously, the government and, now, comes to give the cobblestone to keep the government in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u8	On Friday, he said that there was no irresponsible proposal, but apparently that is another « irrevocable » opinion. We now know clearly that the right didn't want to save the teachers, I wanted to take advantage of the teachers. But the position of the Socialist Party shows how often it takes on the right-wing arguments—until we seemed to be listening to Paul Portas, when one day he intended to break society, with the discourse on minimum income—, when he now intends to throw public workers against those of the private and, within the public, teachers against all others, feeding the prejudice of workers against workers. Populism has many faces and many colors and the electoral fever of the PS has led you to transpose that limit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. But, exposed to the lie, I can give the word, which is the usual, of the Left Block, that we will be with the teachers to ensure the full accounting of the time of service, of them and of the other special careers, of the public and private workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u12	...and leave the guarantee that, for us, this legislature has not finished yet, there is still much to do and the commitments we make are actually to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u13	Four Mrs have signed up. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u14	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u15	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, let me begin by telling you that you have no reason when you say that the government numbers are inflationary or that UTAO, in any case, rejects these numbers. Let us begin by saying that for a measure which everyone has mentioned that there is no increase in expenditure, the UTAO report says that the legislative amendment adopted in the Parliamentary Commission, if confirmed in plenary, will have budgetary implications that are not cautious in the budgetary projections of the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u17	All right, all right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u18	And what's the news?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u19	Secondly, he said that he had no impact on the State budget for 2019. It only has no impact if the government fails to comply with the norm to accommodate it, by 1 January 2020, which, as you know, also means that debt constitutes in 2019, that expenditure on national accounts is recorded in 2019 and therefore counts for the 2019 deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] With regard to the amount of expenditure, UTAO confirms the scale of the increase in expenditure estimated by the Government, i.e. UTAO says that, only for teachers, it is EUR 564 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u20	They're gross numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u21	And, yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's gross expenditure! When, in this House, did the amount of expenditure begin to be discussed but in gross terms? Oh, my God! When did something else happen in the State budget but gross expenditure? Oh, my God! [[BE's protests.]] In gross terms, it is EUR 564 million, but it also tells UTAO that, inevitably, this amount will rise to the extent that the remaining special careers will also require the same treatment. And that amount will therefore reach the value of EUR 800 million—the Government says.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u22	They're gross numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u23	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u24	Therefore, Mr President, the Prime Minister did not create an artificial crisis, the Prime Minister did the only thing he had to do: trying to prevent this Parliament from committing irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u25	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u26	Mr President, Mr Andrade asks Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade when the issues of careers have ever been discussed with gross values rather than liquid values. The answer is simple: whenever Mr Mário Centeno has come to discuss this matter in the Assembly of the Republic. Always! What's changed? Last Friday, it changed the attempt to create a new narrative to justify a political crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u28	What did the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support say? He said it is an outrage by Minister Mário Centeno,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u29	I didn't say anything like that! Don't be a jerk!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u30	... said the accounts are duplicated... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u31	...and, by now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u32	Read the little paper instead of lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u33	I know the PS didn't always deal well with the reports of the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, but I was hoping they'd already turned that page. [[PS protests.]] That was the case in the period of José Socrates, but now almost 10 years have gone by now, they could change. Continuation of PS prosthetics. But the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support says several things and I quote them all textually: it says that the numbers are duplicated; it says that the net value of difference between the government proposal and the one that was presented will be at a maximum value of EUR 398 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u34	For the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u35	Don't! For all Public Administration careers! All Public Administration careers! The Technical Unit for Budgetary Support then says that the Government made a press conference last Friday with a timetable which it planned to implement at most by 2023, which was not approved in the Assembly of the Republic nor had any parliamentary group proposed. By now, the Left Block has proposed the same as the PS : application up to 2025. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It's just that I mean the PS in the Azores, because the PS here, on the continent, says something different!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u36	God damn it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u37	The Technical Unit for Budgetary Support says a third thing, which removes the government's margin for this political crisis: the impact in 2019 will be zero! The second question is that the impact on the medium-term objectives does not withdraw the country from the budget surplus. I shall repeat, Mr President: the impact on the medium-term objectives does not remove the country from the budget surplus! [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] Therefore, Mr. Member, I understand the irritation, I perceive until despair,... [[PS laughter.]] ... because, when the mask of this electoral tactic falls, what is left is the political game due to an unmeasured ambition by an absolute majority. It's the despair, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u38	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u39	But teachers do not serve to be cornered, on behalf of this electoral tactic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u40	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u41	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the honourable Member here made an intervention which I would divide into two parts. You are right in the analysis of what happened on Friday. What happened on Friday was a political farce based on a political lie, as the UTAO today disassembled, and well. Moreover, what happened on Friday was to see the Prime Minister equal to himself: between the interests of the country and the party or even family interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u42	Family? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u43	... always choose the party and family interest, first of all. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Life was bad for her. The candidate for Europeans was bad. Health, as we always said, was in chaos. And what does Mr. Prime Minister do? Invent a crisis, where there is no one. Curiously, blackmailing the Assembly of the Republic, which, when it did, when it lost elections, was the same one that used to say that what counts are the circumstantial majority, that form, or not, in the Assembly of the Republic. They are the usual 'zigs' and 'zags' of Antonio and Costa! The country is used to it, but today the Prime Minister is exposed. This was the first part of your speech, Mr President, with which we agree. Now, Mr. Member, who, like the Block, has spent four years approving Budgets, who, like the Block, has spent four years supporting the Government, must conclude whether or not he has been misled in the Health Bases Act, whether or not he has been misled in counting the time of service of teachers, and taking consequences. It is not now the right, which is where it has always been, it is not, in particular, the CDS, which is where it has always been —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u44	And where is it, after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u45	... with the proposal you have made, with the recognition of the principle you have made, with the conditions for re-evaluation of careers and the evaluation of teachers you have always imposed, which has changed your mind. My question, Mr President, has yet to do with another aspect. Here, politically, there are three positions: the one that would qualify as a hypocrite, which is that of the Socialist Party,... [[PS protests.]] ... that says he wants to pay, but, in fact, we already realize that he does not want to pay, he does not want to count any time, or simply deceive teachers; a moderate and responsible position, which is that of the CDS, which recognizes the principle, but imposes conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u46	Now impose!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u47	... such as the guarantee of financial sustainability and including positive financial impact;... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ...and finally, a position that I find irresponsible, on the side of the Left Block, which is to give everything to everyone, at the same time, and at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u48	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. But to whom FenPROF, representing the teachers, made the appeal, went to the Block. And my question has exactly to do with it, Mr, and that is this: before that, and in view of a moderate proposal, which recognises the principle, but with conditions, what does the Block do? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u50	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u51	Mr President, first of all, I would like to clarify something that seems obvious to me: the Left Block had only one position on this matter, it never walked in a zigzag, it had more than one position. He therefore voted in the Commission and will repeat it, without any doubt and maintaining the consistency he has always had on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u52	And so are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u53	The question that, I think, teachers ask is whether it is the CDS that has often been against them, cutting wages, saying that they were privileged in the Public Administration and wanting to make a review of career status to attack them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u54	It wasn't to attack, it was to put it into practice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u55	... if that is the CDS that will see in the votes, at the seat of plenary, or if it is the one who "took the hand" on Thursday and accepted a proposal that recognized a right and provided a timetable for negotiating the implementation of that right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u56	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u57	It's just that we like to know. Mrs Assumption Cristas said that the decision last week was not irresponsible. If it has not been irresponsible, then they repeat this week that they will ensure that they will not then vote against the result obtained in the Commission. Or are you sorry? It's just that, from what we already understand, they're sorry. The camel in the room is CDS and PSD. And the CDS one is a double reel, because the CDS said: « I really want to throw this government down ». Now, the government says: "I will resign if the CDS votes this way. » What does the CDS do? Get back! Now, we realize: is that love for teachers, that, yes, was conjunctural and opportunistic, is hypocritical in this context, because, when that love becomes consistent with the vote, the CDS runs away and even accepts to give a monumental reel, lying on the ground what it voted last week and any political credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u58	It's exactly the same! It's the same as you voted last week!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u59	from the Left Block, we will vote alongside the teachers, without giving them a « poisoned present » with Troika measures or in compensation for a review of the Statute of the Teaching Career, ensuring that there is a right that will be materialized and that is not dependent on Brussels. And we will see if in this Parliament we will have a PS voting alone or a PS with the right side of it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u60	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u61	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, is evidence that in recent days the country has been confronted with a crisis that has never been. It was, of course, a manoeuvre by the Prime Minister, which is explained by the pre-election environment that the country lives, but which is revealing something, because it demonstrates that the right—at a time when it was clear that there was a lack of expectation on the part of the PS, a commitment made to teachers(and, say, to other special careers), even based on a resolution adopted in 2017 in this House—shows that the PSD and the CDS, when they found that, with their vote, they would open the way for that problem to be solved, there, they went back clearly and now "give the saying for not saying". [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u62	Therefore, in this matter, as in fact has happened in others, particularly in matters of labour law, here are the PSD and the CDS to hand over to the government, when the government's position is contrary to the interests of workers. It's revealing. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] But, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we are, in this question of teachers, as in the other special careers, faced with a situation in which, from our point of view, it is the most fundamental decency that the rights that have been stolen from them are restored. Asking-CL will: does it have a financial impact? It will certainly have financial impact. But we asked: did it not have a financial impact on the lives of all of these employees and the freezing of their careers for nine years? It certainly had an impact! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u64	And whether or not there was the legitimate expectation of these professionals, of all these workers, that what was taken from them, during the time of the troika, would be restored? This expectation has been created, and it is fair, it is legitimate. Time has passed, with frozen careers, and we can't pretend that it didn't happen. We cannot tell these workers « time has passed, but be aware that no, make a kind of journey here in time and pretend that time has not passed by you». Now, speaking in financial impact, and when the government is so concerned about the financial impact created, so concerned that you don't understand the numbers, it is appropriate to ask: did the BPN not have any financial impact? And didn't the BES disqualification have any financial impact? And the BANIF didn't have any financial impact? And does the New Bank still have financial impact? Have they not all had a financial impact of more than EUR 15 billion in public resources? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u66	So, with regard to the time of service provided by teachers and special career workers, it can be assumed that the time did not pass, but, with regard to the banks' imbalances, there, we can already pretend that nothing has happened and that taxpayers did not have to pay, that this money was not...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u67	Sir, you have to finish. I am grateful that you do not take advantage of the Bureau's distraction over its time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u68	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. In short, Mr President, my question is this: can you pretend that these escalations of the banks have not been withdrawn from the incomes of Portuguese workers and that they do not have to be restored? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u69	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u70	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I believe that this debate and this artificial crisis have one aspect in the form and the other in the content. In this way, it has a clear intention to turn a society against a professional class, which is the pillar of our public school and, now, against some of the other public administration workers who form the social state. Now, this of dividing workers, of putting workers against workers, of establishing prejudice against teachers or against other professional careers of the Public Administration is something we have seen a lot on the right, but we did not expect to see from the Socialist Party or from the Government. And one second thing is that this brings a lot of lies to the mix. It's a lie that teachers have a career that's just automatic progressions for time—it's a lie! It's a lie that the payment of some sort of retroactives was on the table — it's a lie! And it is a lie that there are no restrictions on some of the steps to progress in teachers’ careers — it is a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u71	But nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u72	Therefore, creating prejudices against teachers to distort public debate is a strategy that we condemn and that we do not follow. And then there's a content problem. It is that we can take this to the last debate, which is the debate on choices. The honourable Member gave several examples of the bank and, for the bank, never lacked a hundred that it was and never, there, the Socialist Party created a political crisis! There were EUR 2000 million for BANIF ; more than EUR 1000 million this year, only for New Bank ; unexpectedly, EUR 500 million fell, which, six months ago, the Minister of Finance did not know, but it was not a problem, will be cautious. [[Protests by PS members Fernando Rocha Andrade and João Paulo Correia.]] But now, in order to make clear the choices under discussion, there is another aspect that I would like to highlight with regard to the current expenditure of the State, among the proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u73	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. this time, the table is not distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. For example, the net value of the difference in this measure of special careers between what the Assembly proposes and what the Government proposes: EUR 398 million. And see what the PS proposes to maintain, public-private partnerships in health: EUR 450 million. These are the choices that are on the table and in which we are not mistaken. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u75	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u76	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to say that the Greens consider that it is of the most elementary justice that the counting of all time of service effectively provided for the purposes of career progression for teachers and also other workers of other special bodies of the Public Administration, and we consider perfectly unacceptable the option not to count that time of service. Then we started today with the UTAO report, which completely refutes the numbers with which the government has been waving...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u77	No, he's not coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u78	...to try to justify that it is a huge and absolutely unbearable expense, and what UTAO is saying is that the global value will be less than half what the government has been doing. It is to see the exaggeration that the Government has put in its speech to try to have a reason that it does not indeed have. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear that the Greens consider the blackmail made by Mr. Prime Minister himself to be absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable, saying that he resigned if he had approved the counting of all the time of service of the teachers. In view of this, the Greens maintain their coherence and their intransigence in defending this right of workers. But what was the position on the right? The position on the right was to 'give the saying by no means' — in other words, in an absolutely dumbfounded way — and to determine that they are in favour of the principle of counting all the time of service, but not in favour of payment. Indeed, this is the position on the right. In other words, what results from your position is an absolute betrayal of teachers. That's what PSD and CDS offered. Furthermore, it is not surprising, Mr President, because, if we remember, the education policy of the PSD and the CDS, particularly with regard to teachers, revealed a brutal attitude of total disrespect, inviting them even, if we remember, to leave the country to seek work elsewhere, translating this into an atrocious dismissal. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Now, the very concrete question that I would like to ask the honourable Member is this: it falls on someone's head...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u79	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u80	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I said, it falls on someone's head—and are so many who have the principle of fairness in their mouths—that teachers in Madeira and the Azores see recovered all the time of service and, on the continent, be discriminated against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u81	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u82	Is this in someone's head, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u83	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u84	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I must tell you that when I saw statements from Mr César in a newspaper, which said that, in order to respect the teachers, it was necessary to ensure a plan for defrosting careers, I was strange and had to read twice. Then I realized that it wasn't Carlos César, but it was a Caesar, it was the son, who is also a Member, not in the Assembly of the Republic, but in the regional Parliament! And why? Because the PS has two sides and two measures. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It considers it essential and necessary in the Azores, but considers it unconstitutional and irresponsible on the continent. This is the PS we have! We believe that it is indeed necessary to respect teachers and special careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u85	That's low!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u86	Madam Member, I believe that we share some of the anguish of the most tense moments in this Parliament and we know how difficult it has been to reach agreements with the Government, with the Socialist Party in essential matters. Therefore, in this context, I also believe that the following question remains regarding this four-year period: how is it that a legislation replacing workers' rights, respect for wages, respect for pensions, respect for workers' dignity would end abruptly, indicating that it was because of the replacement of workers' rights? Oh, my God! How is that possible? One thing isn't right with the other. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u87	This, when there's so much to do! When we still have time to complete a basic health law, a basic housing law, the status of the informal caregiver, why should we want to escape this outcome, which can be happy for people, in the name of an artificial political crisis? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u88	All right! [[Protests by PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u89	I have no answer to this question, but I can give you a certainty on the part of the Left Block, Mrs. Member : we do not want to run away from this legislature and we want to comply with it until the end, ensuring that those who have chosen us, those who place hope in the positive change of their lives, will still have reasons to smile. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u90	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares today brings the debate to a fictional film, shown last Friday by Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u93	A palace coup that had as its objective, not the education and situation of the country, but, yes, diverting the attention of the Portuguese from what is truly wrong to them. The PSD is, in this matter, where it has always been,... [[Rice from PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] ...to defend the interests of the Portuguese and the country, with a sense of responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u94	Mr. Member, we have never retreated in the defense of one of the fundamental pillars such as education and which, therefore, cannot be treated with blackmails and unacceptable maneuvers... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u95	...by whom I wanted to take on — even if I did not win the elections! — driving the destinations of the country. [[PSD applause.]] But I must tell you, Mr President, that the Portuguese do not let themselves be deceived by a pseudo-dramatization based on a non-existent diploma, in which the only diploma that exists is that of the Government itself, which provides, exactly, the recovery of teachers' time of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. The Portuguese are not deceived by arguments such as that of the country's economic and financial situation when they are the Socialist Party, the PCP and the BE which lower the financial safeguard standards proposed by the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u97	... without which, as we have always stated, it would not be possible to ensure the full counting of the time of service of teachers. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Therefore, Mr President, what I ask you is what happened to all the promises made to the teachers and assumed in this marriage between the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block, marriage that said they were stable and lasting ; the same ones that approved, and are therefore responsible, the State budgets that provide for the defreezing of careers, in a negotiation that has failed heavily and that they have not been able to fulfil. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u98	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u99	Mr President, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, thank you for your question, but let me ask you to send two information to Dr. Rui Rio. The first is that, contrary to what he said yesterday, the Left Block does not propose everything for now; it has exactly the same proposal as the PS approved in the Azores or that the PSD approved in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, to respect the legitimate rights of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u100	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u101	Ah! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u102	The second request I make to you is that I ask Dr. Rui Rio not to force the PSD Parliamentary Group or the PSD itself to have two sides in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u103	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u104	Let them vote here as in Madeira and, above all, vote next Friday as they voted last week. on the side of the Left Block, there is no kind of incoherence. There is no doubt about what we are voting on. We know that we wanted more, but we know that what has been approved ensures that the next governments can negotiate with the unions the realisation of a right that is properly safeguarded. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] We do not accept that this negotiation was in practice a farce, mortgaged with the blackmail of the troika, with the goals of Brussels, and always, always, with the revision of the Statute of the Teaching Career in the drawer, to cut the echo in all the structures of the teachers' career. Mrs Deputy, I believe that there is a new argument, brought by the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, and therefore this debate, this Parliament and the country are asking the PSD, but also the CDS, who answer the following question: they will be hostage to lying blackmails by Mário Centeno and the Government, today disassembled by the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... or will they be consistent with what they voted last week, who said they were "responsible and irreprehensible", resulting in this vote, the realization of teachers' rights? Oh, my God! If they do, they will at least be consistent with the last week. If they do not, they clearly demonstrate that it was a farce, a lie, an electoral game, which, from this point of view, is not much better than the one the Prime Minister is doing right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u105	For a political declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has seen, in recent days, one of the biggest theatre coups of Portuguese politics,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u107	...involved by a Prime Minister persecuted by a candidate and by a European campaign manifestly running - bad, very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u108	What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u109	In fact, it is seen by the nervousness of the Socialist Party's bench, the truth of my words. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But beyond the virtual country, which the Prime Minister has tried to create, there is a real country—and very real! — with very real problems which must be solved urgently. When the country needed a prime minister capable of solving the problems, he had a prime minister expert in creating artificial crises. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] When the country needed a government with vision, it had a mere staging. In short, when Portugal needed a statesman, it had only a skilled politician. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] So let's talk about the real country and the real problems. With this government that the management created, the tax burden reached a record value. Never—I do, never! — the State had appropriated so much of the wealth created by the Portuguese. This is not just an indicator or a number, it is the extent to which the State withdraws from the private initiative, in taxes, the freedom to apply the fruit of its own effort. in this regard, it is good to remember that the Government had no problem in bringing together the agreement of management to achieve this record tax burden together or to bring together the proposals of the CDS to remove the overtax of fuel, gas oil. The tax burden is not just a virtual number, they are, above all, real taxes and this is the Real Country, the highest tax burden country ever. at the same time, public investment has fallen to values far below those of the difficult period of the troika and has not yet reached the 2015 values. This also explains the poor implementation rates of the Community funds, which mean opportunities which Portugal has lost in its development, especially in sectors as fundamental as the sea, agriculture or rail. This is the country with the eternally postponed public investment, in which the PS, as a prize, places the minister who was primarily responsible for these funds as the list of European elections. Perhaps this explains your difficulties with this campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u111	In health, Portuguese desperate with the increasing degradation of hospitals, from day to day, year after year. When the Doctors' Board of Governors regretted that the situation of more than 2600 patients who died while awaiting surgery had never been clarified, we reached the climax of having a Health Minister who answered that 70% of the people — people! — who died on waiting lists for surgery were within the maximum guaranteed response time. For the Minister of Health, these statements and this deeply regrettable attitude are an acceptable answer. For the Prime Minister, who not only did not resign but was also unable to resign the Minister, it was also an acceptable answer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u112	For the Minister, who has been lying behind her ass since she is a minister, the people who have died waiting for surgery that has never arrived and the 30% of those who have died waiting for surgeries outside the clinically acceptable waiting time do not count, there are, do not deserve answer, do not pass a statistic and a number. This is the answer Mr. Prime Minister gives to the real problems of the real country! [[CDS-PP applause.]] in this regard, the only resignations we had as a result of the deplorable state that reached health in Portugal were those of administrators and service directors, who courageously faced the government and denounced the shameful way in which they did not give them conditions to treat patients. To all these problems, the government and, above all, management responded by sacrificing the patients to ideology. The Prime Minister who did not resign when 116 people died in the fires is the same Prime Minister who has not yet been able to give a full and transparent response to the application of donor money and irregularities in the reconstruction of houses in Pedrogão Grande. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] It is worth talking, too, about the problem of the socialist family, the real new owners of this all. First there were some appointments, then there were a few coincidences, but I think everyone will realize that 50 people and 20 families are not just punctual cases nor are they just coincidences. They are a standard, and a standard to which, in Lisbon, apparently, no more cemeteries escape! The solution for this is not a law for English to see, it is an ethics for the government to have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, it is worth remembering that this is the government that always boasts that it has solved the problem of banks. It is euphemism to say that, through recapitalisations or loans to the Resolution Fund, it will put into the financial system all the money the banks ask for. More precisely, EUR 9 billion since 2015. So very recently it happened with the New Bank, with the duplication of the money that was planned in the State budget to apply there. at that time, there were no problems with the deficit, there were no crises, there were no problems of increased expenditure and there were no threats of resignation. The government gets the money and the final point, paragraph. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to all the theatres of Mr. Prime Minister, forgotten behind curtains of smoke and virtual crises there is a real country, a country that in recent years has lost its great opportunity of growth, which is among the least growing countries and with one of the worst incomes in the euro area. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] This country, which wants to take advantage of the opportunities it has gained with great sacrifice, after very difficult times, the government has nothing to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u113	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u114	Of course, Mr. President, I'm done then. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u115	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of three Mrs. Members for clarification requests: Mr João Paulo Correia, PS ; Mrs Paula Santos, PCP ; and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Block de Left. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u116	Mr. President, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, spoke in a theatrical blow. The only theatrical blow Portuguese know is the sudden interest of the CDS and PSD by the National Health Service, the defense of the public school and teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that the Portuguese do not forget that it was the former government that cut EUR 1300 million in the National Health Service, who cut the salaries of teachers and who disinvested in public school, left the public school. The Portuguese do not forget that, in this legislature, when this government and this parliamentary majority have reduced the hourly load from 40 to 35 hours for teachers, the CDS was against. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u117	When the majority of them resumed their holidays, the CDS was against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When this majority advanced with the regularization of the deficiencies in the Public Administration and also of the teachers, the CDS was against. When it advanced with free school textbooks up to 12. the year, the CDS was against. This is the real theater blow! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the CDS wants, in this debate and with the intervention it has made, is to leave the photograph of that moment of enormous political responsibility. Your speech is a retreat, after the CDS has yielded to electoral pressure. If the measure which was adopted in committee, in the specialty, is confirmed in a global final vote, with the contagion to the remaining special careers... According to a table of the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support (UTAO), whose report is being discussed here, you can read the following: is this measure cautioned in the Stability Programme of 2019 - 2023? Don't! Is it planned in the State Budget of 2019? Don't! Therefore, the need for the corrective budget. What is the increase in the value of these gross wages to be paid to workers involved in the cruise year, according to UTAO? It represents EUR 804 million! These are figures corresponding to those of the government and it is a measure that requires a corrective budget. It is a measure which obliges a amending budget as a commitment made in 2019 and which, according to the national accounting system, is the one that counts for the clearance of public accounts and the budget deficit, obliges the Government to adjust it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u118	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u119	Madam Member, the question I leave you with is this: is it an apology?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u120	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u121	Is that what you wanted to do in your speech? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u122	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u123	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr João Paulo Correia for the question and telling him the following: Mr, apparently, he has not yet received the last script of the government's spin. It is still with the script that preceded this, which is the one that would call « script that pretends that there never existed in Portugal a Prime Minister called José Socrates »...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u125	... and what I call « income recovery script ». [[PS protests.]] He hasn't received the last one yet! It is still in the stage of the "recovery script" and did not receive the last script, which I would say is the "Centeno script". Continuation of PS protests. Mr President, to list almost all the measures that the previous Government had to take, because they were planned in a memorandum that your party negotiated because it had led the country to bankruptcy for a huge irresponsibility, to realize that nothing happened, that there was never a troika, that there was never Prime Minister Socrates and that all the measures of the previous government were not caused by a crisis is the old trick of the Socialist Party. I don't know if you noticed it, but last weekend, Mr. Prime Minister changed the script! He's changed that script to another one! It's just that he hasn't done it to her yet. But, look, while waiting for the new script, I asked him the following: Mr. Member is a member of the Socialist Party, right? When you voted here on 15 December 2017, a resolution to recommend to the government the full count,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u126	Everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u127	... all the time of service for career progression... [[PS protests.]] You must not have read it at the time, but you say this: be told everything, everything — everything is everything, right? Oh, my God! I think! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u128	Don't worry I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u129	... this time for career progression and corresponding remunerative valuation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u130	Why didn't you read the beginning? Oh, my God! They just read the middle!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u131	He voted, and I quote, 'to recommend to the Government that, in dialogue with the unions, ensure that, in careers whose progression also depends on service time, be counted'. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, counting all the time is counted all the time! We're playing with the words now, aren't we? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Mr President, in fact I think this is somewhat irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u133	And he had conditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u134	That's why the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u135	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u136	Mr President, you also have to guarantee me the conditions for me to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u137	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u138	Of course, but I'm just asking, I'm not demanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u139	It's a little hard to give a joint response so someone can understand being systematically interrupted. Mr President, the CDS abstained because we agree with the principle, but we think that without more and without budgetary responsibility it is irresponsible. The honourable Member is, by the way, in the middle of the year, radically changed his mind. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u140	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the CDS brings an intervention by repeating the fact that we have been used to, seeking to escape a matter that we consider relevant, particularly the change in the position of the CDS last week last weekend, which we perceive to be uncomfortable, because the party that during this legislature demanded the resignation of the Government is the party that now changes its position exactly to hand over to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u143	However, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the CDS, initially, valued the approval of the proposals submitted without any conditionality, whether those of an economic nature or the review of the teaching career. Mrs Assumption Cristos then added that the proposals had no financial impact and that, for the future, it was a matter of negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u145	Then, multiplying in several statements, they seek to justify the unjustifiable, the CDS gives the unspoken statement, retreating across the line in what I had already stated, altering its position and direction of vote on the basis of the criteria which it considered not decisive before. Madam Member, the question is: what has really changed in recent days to change the position? If the approved text had no financial impact, did it have a financial impact to change its position? Why did you change your mind? The CDS knows as well as we do that the proposals it has put forward, on conditioning the time of service count, mean preventing the replacement of this right and even proposed, with the revision of the Statute of the Teaching Career, the objective of withdrawing more rights. This is the path that the CDS proposes, which means devaluing not only the teachers, but also the nurses, the military, the security forces, the judicial workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u147	For this, it doesn't count on PCP. The question that I would like to leave to you is:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u149	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Madam Member, the question I would like to leave to you is the following: now that UTAO has clarified that the budgetary impact of this measure is not what the Government has propagated, now that it is aware that the replacement of this right does not have the effects of the catastrophe announced by the Government, will the CDS approve in accordance with what it voted on Thursday or will give in to what the PS Government has demanded? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u150	Now, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, and only then will Mrs Cecilia Meireles, at your request, reply together. You have the floor, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u151	Mr President, I confess that I did not expect to come to the end of the legislature to speak of the "detailed right" or the "submissive right", but unfortunately that is what happened. Mrs. Members, on Friday and Saturday, the CDS ensured that what it had approved was responsible. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] The CDS knows, as we know, that the State Budget for 2019 has been protected. The CDS knows, as we know, that what is at stake does not endanger the European goals with which the Socialist Party has committed itself. The CDS knows, as we know, that the approved proposal left room for the government to negotiate the placement of teachers' careers, not imposing any period, no deadline, no concrete way to do it. The CDS knows, as we know, that the numbers that have been presented by the government have been manipulated. They have been manipulated because it is false that this is a permanent expense. It is not a permanent expenditure, it is only a expenditure while the teachers, who are already at a very advanced age average, do not enter the reform, because then, when they enter the reform, the frozen years continue to count as frozen wages. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] The CDS knows that the numbers were manipulated because they confused raw with liquid. When we discussed here in 2017 the replacement of careers, the government never said that careers cost 1000 million, said that they cost 564 million. Why? Oh, my God! Because that is the net discounted impact of taxes and social security. This is how they entered the measure in the Budget, so they entered the measure in the Stability Programme in 2017. Why do they now change the way they present the data? Why do they now manipulate the data to create a political crisis? The CDS knows, as we know, that the government is doing theatre, that the government is creating a crisis that is not a crisis, that the government is manipulating data to fake a crisis that has no reason to exist. And with that, it's creating social hatred against teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u152	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u153	I understand this doesn't tell the CDS much. I know, even, that the CDS has a very opportunistic position with regard to teachers, but let me say that on the left side of the Block, I find the way the Socialist Party is creating hatred, repetition, social hatred against teachers shameful! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u154	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u155	I will finish, Mr. President. I don't think this is up to any party that wants to defend the workers and who said here in 2014 that the PS would never put workers against the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. My question is simple: if the CDS knows that this is a theater, why did it retreat and yield to blackmailing the manipulated numbers? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u158	Now, yes, to respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members and perhaps start by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who spoke in submission. I would like to ask if you remember exactly how much money the honourable Member and her party approved in the last State budget for the State to lend to the Resolution Fund to put in the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u161	It was 400!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u162	Speaking in submission, perhaps this will help you to understand how much your party, the Left Block, has made this government viable in everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u163	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u164	in the same way that they have made about, I believe, 400 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u165	And it'll be twice as much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u166	Mrs Deputy was not distracted when she voted in favour of these EUR 400 million for the government to enter the New Bank! He didn't worry about it. I would like to ask you — and I think you have not been concerned about this either — how much increases in gas oil have been approved by your vote in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u167	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u168	...for all Portuguese to pay! [[CDS-PP applause.]] How many times did you agree to increase indirect taxes? How many times have you submitted and accepted amounts of captivating in the State Budget, which still make you feel in health today? How many times? Let this be very clear. Every time he went up to that pulpit and every time he put an outsider on the street saying that some nice measure of this government was the merit of the Left Block were also the times when it was responsible for all, but even all, the measures that management took.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u170	You are the management and we are the opposition. There is no doubt about it, but even no doubt about it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] That the government is doing theater, that's a distance away! In fact, perhaps he even inspired himself in the Block of the Left, which has great mastery in this matter. I would also like to tell Mrs Paula Santos, at the same time as I tell Mrs Mariana Mortagua, that the CDS has always had the same position in relation to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u171	It is the position of opportunism! It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u172	If they have doubts, it is to read the CDS proposal, which they will also have the opportunity to vote. If you understand that they disagree, I think it is reasonable. Our position is simple and it is the following: accepting the principle of thawing, which I must remember now, has been consecrated by the government's budget management for the general public administration...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u173	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u174	... but excluding the special cuts of the Public Administration — what the CDS says is that, if there is money for everyone, there must be money for everyone; if there is no money for everyone, there must be a criterion of choice that is the same for the special bodies and for the generality of the Public Administration. That is the principle we have entered. The way this negotiation takes place must take into account, firstly, economic growth, what the country can afford and the absolute priority, which is economic growth itself; secondly, it must also take into account the question, always adjourned, of career review and, above all, of the evaluation of teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u175	It's one hand and take both!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u177	We do not accept the hypocrisy of telling teachers: "We are available to discuss the past, but there is no willingness to discuss the future. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u179	We want above all to discuss the future and the Portuguese state cannot have careers that simply cannot pay. [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u180	Thank you very much. You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u181	It is necessary to review them and, that courage, you don't have it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u182	I didn't realize if the CDS was gonna blow up the government or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u183	To give a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At five months of legislative elections, what the country needs is to move forward with an alternative policy, which is needed to solve national problems, instead of getting involved in political crises created by electoral calculus and fixations in absolute majority, on the basis of false pretexts and encouraging divisions between workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u186	The country needs to move forward with the replacement of rights cut by the policy of the CEP (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes) and the aggression pact, it needs to move forward with the full implementation of the measures of replacement, defence and conquest of rights that are decided and with new measures that deepen them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u188	It was not the European Union's taxes or the right-wing policy options that brought us employment and economic growth. It was the measures to restore rights and income and new advances, taken against the will of the European Union and facing its resistance, which have responded to the most immediate problems of the workers and the people, have increased the economy and employment and have improved the country's economic and social situation. When steps have been taken to defend rights and respond to the wishes of workers and the people, the country has advanced. Whenever the PS government has closed the European Union's taxes, when it has put the deficit targets or the euro's obligations in front of national interests, the workers and the people have been left with their expectations frustrated and the country has problems to solve. What we have seen in recent days, the pretext for the replacement of the right to progress in the career of teachers and other workers with special careers, is very revealing how PS, PSD and CDS remain brothers in obedience and submission to the European Union's taxes, placing them in front of workers' rights and the response to national problems. And it is also revealing how the people and the country are affected by this submission to criteria imposed from outside and with objectives contrary to the development of the country and the well-being of the people. The PS Government, which, over the past year and a half, has impeded the replacement of the right to progress in the career of special career workers, on Friday, came to add the budgetary dimension of the proposals adopted in the Education Commission, so that they can accuse PSD and CDS of challenging the budgetary dictates imposed by the European Commission, to which those three parties confess themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u190	PSD and CDS, which, from Thursday to Saturday, defended the approved proposals by denying the government's arguments of budgetary terror, and even valued their approval, even though they did not include any of the limitations they had proposed, eventually ended on Sunday by denying these same proposals more quickly than Peter denied Christ.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u192	Hey! But Peter was Papa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u193	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government and the PS can, in deafina, rekindle themselves with the blow of wings they were able to put into the PSD and CDS pocket, which they had recently demanded and voted for their resignation. Minister Mário Centeno may even take the heads of Rui Rio and Assumption Christians to the European Commission on a silver tray to prove his loyalty to the oath of the Stability Pact. What none of these three parties can do is to clean up the damage that causes, with their options of disregard for the work of thousands of workers who build the country's future every day. [[PCP applause.]] The option that PS, PSD and CDS prepare to do once again to place the European Union's taxes, the budgetary treaty and the Stability Pact in front of workers'rights is wrong and detrimental to Portugal's development and future. All workers, including those in special careers, have the right to be considered for the purposes of their career progression. Their work deserves consideration and it is more important than any budgetary targets, especially those that are imposed on us externally, from the European Union, without any concern about the living conditions of the people and the development of the country. The work of the teachers who prepare the young people today to be men and women of the future; the work of doctors, nurses and other professionals who ensure the health of Portuguese; the work of the military that ensure our national sovereignty and defence; the work of the police and other professionals who ensure the safety and tranquility of the populations; the work of the magistrates and judicial officials who ensure the functioning of the justice system; the work of scientists and researchers who seek to make Portugal a Scientific and technologically advanced and developed Country; the work of all of them is more important than the fulfilment of the budgetary targets imposed by Brussels, against national interests, and that PS, PSD and CDS place as priority. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we need to move forward. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u195	The way in which it is necessary, as in recent years they clearly reveal, is that of valuing workers and their wages and rights as a condition for the creation of jobs and the development of the country. The way forward is the general increase in wages for all workers, with the appreciation of careers and professional experience, the significant increase in the national minimum wage, in order to enable the realization of €850 per month, the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, the fight against precariousness, the guarantee of decent working hours, the increase in pension and social support, investment in public services and the social functions of the State, support for national production and productive sectors. That is what is required: to advance in the defence and enhancement of the rights of workers and the people, and not to go back, with submission to the blackmails and arbitraryness of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u196	Mr. João Oliveira, four Mr. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u197	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u198	All right. The first request for clarification is from Mrs Jamila Madeira of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u199	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, « move forward » was your motto, and that is what we have done in recent years, since 2015. The Portuguese economy has been expanding and has had the best performance in all euro area countries, continuing to converge with Europe for the third consecutive year. Despite uncertainties and international slowdowns, Portugal has a less marked slowdown and continues to converge with the European Union. Throughout the Legislature, we have worked for the right account: yes, reduce the deficit to the lowest in the history of our democracy; yes, reduce public debt to below 120 %; yes, continue to reduce interest charges to the lowest of all time. With this, we have gained national, European and international credibility, we have met commitments and, at the same time, we have resumed wages; we have defrosted careers; we have ended with overtax; we have reduced unemployment to 6, 4 %; we have increased social support; we have reduced poverty, as the most recent data show; we have reached, in 2017, the date of most recent data, the rate of poverty risk and the lowest level of inequality ever; also the indicator of wage inequality between the richest 20 % and the poorest 20 % has achieved the best result since there are records; and we remember that in recent years, we have increased the minimum wage by 24 % and the average wage has already risen to €983, although there is still a long way to go. All of this has been done with certain accounts, with commitments with the European Union, with the solidity of those who do not want steps in false or greater steps than the leg. Therefore, increasing the expenditure without limits, giving everything to everyone at the same time, increasing the minimum wage more than 41 % without ensuring, too, a necessary and urgent progression of intermediate wages is not to move forward, Mr President, it is only to ensure that we can move forward shortly, a little further ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u200	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u201	I will finish, Mr. President. The PS does not go there and we call on the CFP, having helped in many of these achievements, to continue to collaborate so that these steps continue to be taken within the European Union, with the necessary credibility on behalf of the Portuguese and the values that we defend during the years of this legislature, in the name of not going back, certain accounts and a Portugal certainly better than that which we received in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u202	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u203	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, I would like to thank you for your question. Of course, as I said in my speech, the CFP greatly values the positive results that have been achieved, from an economic and social point of view, as many of the positive measures that have been taken over these three and a half years, measures for which the CFP has contributed decisively. In fact, I would repeat what I said in my speech: if today we have the results that we have, from an economic and social point of view, it is because these measures have been taken, it is not because the European Union's taxes have been met, it is not because the targets of the deficit have been met, which have no strict criteria for any connection to national reality and are an external imposition which is entirely beyond us. Madam Member, I would risk saying something else: it is also true that the discussion on the replacement of the right to career progression that we are now making is an example that we could multiply by the whole of the other measures that have been taken. It is that, in all the other positive measures that have been taken and which have contributed to this economic and social outcome, which the honourable Member refers to, we have also found the pressure, the strength of the CFP to push forward, while the PS and the Government were always pulling back, always stopping, always trying to reduce the scope of the measures that were taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u204	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u205	She knows that this was the case in relation to the increase in pensions, she knows that it was the guarantee of the freeness of school textbooks, she knows that this was the case in relation to the increase in family allowance, in relation to the replacement of wages, in relation to support for the unemployed and even in relation to the reform of the workers of stone and mines. It was always necessary for the PCP to push, push, push, push, because the PS will was in the sense of locking, locking, locking! [[PCP applause.]] In fact, this discussion about the replacement of careers is a flagrant example of this very thing we are facing. I would even ask you another question, Mrs Deputies. After the work all that has been done to achieve all these positive measures, when it is clear that the way the country has to take is to deepen the measures that have been taken and not to stop the step, because the PS, at five months of elections to the Assembly of the Republic, should want to put the government down? The answer, unfortunately, is obvious, Madam Member: it is by electoral calculus, it is by fixing in the absolute majority and it is because the Socialist Party wants to undo this correlation of forces and the strength of the PCP, which pushed the PS to take measures that it did not want to take.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u206	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u207	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u208	I conclude, Mr President, by telling Mrs Jamila Madeira that the reason why the PS wants to take free hands is very blatant. It is to hear the speeches that were made this weekend by several members of the government, repeating the argumentary of Passos Coelho, Vítor Gaspar, Maria Luís Albuquerque, Paulo Portas, repeating the blackmail of the budgetary popes, repeating the threats of cuts in the rights to restore others, seeking to turn workers against workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u209	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u210	For what? To stop the advances, to impose setbacks! Mrs.Jamila Madeira, if this is why the PS wants to have free hands to rule alone, then the Portuguese will have to give a response as to the path they have to choose, so that it is effectively forwarding rather than brakes or retrocesses, as the PS intends. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u211	Mr President, it has exceeded the time available by 50 %, which is clearly excessive. I therefore ask you not to do so in the next replies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u212	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u213	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u214	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, I must tell you that in some way not so much as I said, but because of the division of time you used, your intervention was somewhat surprising. Instead of talking about what appears to be more than obvious today, that is, the play of bad taste...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u215	The doll!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u216	... which was done by Mr Prime Minister last Friday, the true political farce which is increasingly exposed to facts and figures, Mr Deputies, mixing PS, PSD and CDS in what is not mixed— much less in this issue, much less today— decided to say that what is needed, what is required, what is necessary is to move forward, and even the pact of aggression has spoken, Mr President! But here you come, let me remind you of two things. First of all, who has been attacking everything that you have talked about is your coalition comrades for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u217	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u218	They are the comrades who, with the honourable Member and the votes of his party, had four years of four approved budgets of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u220	That is perhaps what the honourable Member should justify to those who have trusted the vote in themselves and who were certainly waiting for another result that is not this cambalhota of the Socialist Party, I repeat, your comrades on the way! [[PS and PCP protests.]] Here you have arrived, honourable Member, you must say, there is a disagreement that is not today, it is always between the Communist Party and the CDS. You, coherently, but, in our opinion, irresponsiblely, want to tell everything, pay everything now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u221	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u222	We also, coherently, and moderately, believe that positive budgetary impact measures should be taken into account, in particular, which reduce State spending, for example, on evaluation and review of careers. We're both where we've always been, even in the opposite sense. But, Mr President, there is, in fact, here someone who has adopted a resolution and made a pirouette, which was the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u223	The CDS did too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u224	...that this, yes, is not only an incoherent position as a hypocrite, because, after all, it says one thing and does another. As for this, Mr President, I would like to make it clearer. Finally, Mr President — and this is the question, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u225	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u226	... it is curious that, made this division between the hypocritical positions, in my view, irresponsible, and those that are moderate, the union center that you support is the one that calls on you to be moderate and vote the moderates. That is the justification that you also have to give. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u227	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u228	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr Deputy, I understand the inconvenience of your party, the CDS, because the intervention of the CFP does not save anyone's responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u229	Blame yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u230	We do not spare responsibility for the PS, which in the past year and a half refused to carry out what was decided in three State budgets and in a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, we do not spare this responsibility for the Socialist Party and, moreover, we have never saved it, but Mr Nuno Magalhães, neither do we spare the PSD nor the CDS the responsibility for having decided to enter the scene with the PS in this farce, as the honourable Member has designated it. It is that the PSD and CDS could have even gone to the role of spectators, but no, the PSD and CDS agreed to be part of this farce, unfortunately being manipulated by the Government of the Socialist Party. What we had on Thursday, Friday and Saturday was a speech — which we were able to value — of the PSD and the CDS by rejecting the arguments of the budget catastrophe that the Government falsely launched for the debate and explaining that the decisions that had been taken in the Education Commission, despite not being in line with the proposals made by the CFP, although they did not correspond to a definitive solution which, with the proposals of the CFP, had been clarified, still pointed out a framework for the realization of the right to career progression not only for teachers but also for other very important sectors, such as the military, security forces and services professionals — namely, police — doctors, doctors and nurses, judges and judicial officials. All these special bodies are waiting for the teachers' solution to see their problem solved. What did the CDS and PSD decide to do? From Thursday to Saturday, they supported the proposals they had approved and valued - and on Sunday they appear to say exactly the opposite, after all, to be closed to the demands of the Government of the Socialist Party! And, Mr Nuno Magalhães, do not be mistaken: next Friday, when those proposals are voted here in a comprehensive final vote, the CFP will keep the point of vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u231	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u232	... which, coherently and carefully, defined for the votes that took place on Thursday. We will vote in favour of the text we have adopted in the Committee on Education, on behalf of the defence of the interests of workers with special careers — teachers and others — and we hope that the PSD and the CDS will do exactly the same. Moreover, after the clarification that UTAO has already made, in which the budgetary impact of these measures is not what the Government has announced, we would still like to have an answer from the CDS about whether it will maintain the vote it has done in the Commission or whether it will even change the direction of vote, as the Government has demanded and the CDS appears to be prepared to do. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u233	Mr President, I should like to say that, in terms of response time, you have improved a little bit. In the last request for clarification, you will respond within 2 minutes. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Oliveira, spoke of choices. Indeed, there are numerous open choices at the end of this Legislation, choices to which the Left Block does not want to fail. We have very important records such as the Basics of Health Law, the Basics of Housing Law, the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, changes to labour law... These are choices that, until the end of the Legislation, must be made. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u235	The Government and the Socialist Party, who have not yet managed to articulate the right number to spark the artificial crisis caused by themselves, seem to want to escape these choices. The PS seems to want to put on the table a choice that little tells the country and this Assembly of the Republic, which is whether it will have more than 1 % or less 1 % in the next elections. But what we are interested in discussing here is these choices that are open and that are, yes, important for the country and for the people who live here. For example, in relation to the basic health law, what is currently under discussion is whether we have a strengthened National Health Service, whether we have a health that is managed by the public and therefore its resources are effectively intended for users, or whether we have a health oriented to private interests. It is EUR 4 billion per year out of the budget of the National Health Service for the private sector. On this, the PS does not seem to have great problems, but when it comes to replacement of rights, comprehensive accounting of time of service of teachers and other careers, it will "fall the Carmo and the Trinity" for some million that they don't know very well how many are. But as for the EUR 4 billion coming out of the budget of the National Health Service for the private sector, there is no problem! As for PPPs (public-private partnerships), Mr Prime Minister even says it is only EUR 450 million! It is only 4, 5 % of the budget of the National Health Service, that nest that is not necessary for anything! But when it comes to careers and time replacement, it will "fall the Carmo and the Trinity" for a value that the PS does not know very well what it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u236	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u237	Finally, the question that I put to the honourable Member is this: will not these really be the choices that need to be made at the end of this legislation on health, housing, labour legislation, informal caregivers, just to give some examples? And isn't the PS testing a leak to all those files that are on the table? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u238	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u239	Mr President, I thank Mr Moisés Ferreira for the questions he has raised. Mr President, to answer your question directly, I think it is much more than that. Even if I do not feed and understand that there should be no exaggerated expectations about the position that the Socialist Party may come to take on any of these discussions, because I believe that these as other discussions will have to be made by seeking to achieve all the advances, but, knowing that the advances will only be achieved with the struggle, intervention, insistence of workers and populations, of those who are directly interested and targeted by these measures, yet we believe that it is not really what is at stake in this situation, which was created last week with the government decision to precipitate the country in a crisis with a threat of dismissal. It seems to us that you do not have to deal exactly with the ongoing discussions in the Assembly of the Republic, but with — and I will use a popular expression — "the seat of going to the pot", with the aim of, in precipitating and anticipating elections, being able to reach an absolute majority and, eventually, to get rid of the correlation of forces that exists today in the Assembly of the Republic and which conditions and pushes the PS to take measures that, being positive to the workers and the people, still the PS would not want to take them and that, in an absolute majority framework, in which it had free hands to rule without anyone else, would work or even impose its backs. That is our fundamental concern, which Mr Moisés Ferreira has on our part an answer which is very clear. Our response is not to appeal to the PS to do what, after all, it does not want to do or to desist from its plans and projects, because we know that it would be appeals that would fall into a broken bag, but of appeal—and it is a deep appeal — to the workers and the people of this country not to allow the way to be backward, so that they do not allow the way to be backward, but indeed, to advance, with an alternative policy that truly responds to the problems of the country, to the problems of the workers and the people. That is what the CFP makes and that is why we will continue to be committed to our intervention, our initiative and our proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u240	The last request for clarification is from the PSD, by Mr Álvaro Batista. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u241	I congratulate you, Mr President, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen present. Mr. João Oliveira, it is obvious to us that, from a political point of view, we are facing an artificial crisis, a coup d'état of the government, tested to have no account of the Portuguese at this end of the legislature. Not to account for the promises to be fulfilled, not to account for the denial of reality and for the shortcomings to the truth, not to mention the socialist family, so widely spread by the Government and the Public Administration. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] But this speech, from a political point of view, is also clearly a disregard for the CFP, a party which in the last four years has been mulet of the Government, has been mulet to approve the State budgets and all the measures that the Government wants and now the CFP has ceased to be confident, the CFP has ceased to count on the Government. The PCP is still on the left, but it has become zero for the government and the Socialist Party. The question that arises is this: what does the CFP have to say to the Government and the Socialist Party because it has become a zero to the left, because at the moment the CFP is just that to the Government? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mr President, I would like to say the following: education is not just teachers. The public education system is also students, parents, schools and problems in public school have not resolved nor disappeared with this artificial political crisis. Asbestos continues on the roofs of schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u242	And whose fault is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u243	...the precariouss of secondary education are still not integrated, there are schools where inside the classrooms rain as on the street. So what we basically have in education is this: left, four State budgets; students, zero! Mr Deputy, in higher education, the problems are basically the same: there is still a lack of accommodation for students. What does the PCP have to say? Don't say anything! What did the government solve? He didn't solve anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u244	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u245	I'm done now, Mr. President. The scholarships are delayed in their approval and payment, there are thousands of higher education teachers waiting to be promoted, due to the lack of criteria of this government. What are the answers that the CFP has for these problems both in secondary education and in higher education? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u246	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u247	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. I confess, Mr President, that if I had to give a title to this intervention, it would be: 'disgusting and giving to the pedals'! [[PCP laughter.]] Because the PSD, confronted with the problem that results from the retreat it has assumed in relation to the matter related to progression in careers, disguises and gives to the pedals! Dress up and give the pedals and try something else next door to avoid dealing with the underlying problem. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Álvaro Batista, you can disguise a lot and give a lot to the pedals, but look that you will not leave the same place, if you continue with this incoherence base that the PSD has assumed from Thursday to Sunday. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, are you asking us for education measures? Oh, my God! Mr President, look at: free of charge of school textbooks — approved by proposal of the CFP, with the opposition of the PSD — increased scholarships, increased social action in school, reduced propinity, reinvestment in residences and in the housing of higher education students. Even yesterday, a very important issue concerning the nullity of academic acts due to lack of payment of propines also had a solution by proposal of the CFP. Unfortunately, the PSD has never accompanied the PCP on these issues and comes here now talking about zeros on the left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u248	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u249	You are wrong about the criteria you use in relation to the CFP because, if you think we are offended by the honourable Member to say that we are not an appendice or a pendant in the PS call, look that this does not bother us at all! What we really care about is what the meaning, the consequences and the results of the measures we put forward. That is why, on Friday, he will have to vote on the proposals resulting from the vote in the Education Committee, which, although not proposed by the CFP, were approved by the CFP because they correspond to the solution of a problem. And the PSD, which last Thursday voted, approved and valued these proposals until Saturday, on Sunday comes the saying for not saying, giving in to the blackmail and taxation of the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD protests.]] And Mr. Álvaro Batista, at that time, as much as he has tried to disguise and as much as he continues to give to the pedals, he will have to continue sitting on these chairs and will have to be called to vote on these proposals and it is there, Mr. Álvaro Batista, that we will realize for what the PSD counts. We will see whether the PSD even counts effectively for measures that result in the resolution of specific problems in the country or if, after all, it will even assume the role of pendant in the PS Government’s call, fulfilling what the PS demanded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u250	For a political statement by the PSD, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dr António Costa wants to end the legislature in the same way that it began, that is, with a parliamentary coup! [[PSD applause.]] In 2015, despite the anticipated announcements of victory, Dr. António Costa lost the elections. It didn't matter! The people did not want to rule, but a parliamentary coup brought together a quartet of defeated, imposing themselves on the will of the people, who had given victory to the PSD. Now, in the last few days, Dr.António Costa has tried a new parliamentary coup to abandon, before time, his responsibilities as Prime Minister. It's just that now this Parliamentary coup drags the riddle, the theater coup scratches. A farce with wide dissemination, it is true, but it is contradictory in the substance, which is born of the most blatant lie and that we all perceive the ultimate ends. To meet the demands of management partners, the PS and the Government promised teachers the full counting of the time of service that the Socialist Government of José Socrates frozen in 2005. [[PSD applause.]] This promise was not punctual, it was repeated throughout 2017 and 2018. They weren't wrong, so. More: such a promise would even appear to be the currency of exchange for the 2018 State Budget to be approved. Moreover: that time would be counted in full and it was a promise of broken hands, since the purpose of the government and the PS was to count all the time of service, without any clause-work in public expenditure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u252	The PSD always understood that these promises were not duly sustained, the accounts were not made and so we cautiously distanced ourselves from them. We in the PSD value budgetary rigour and the right accounts. [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]] Mr President, we have fresh memories of the sacrifices that the Portuguese have had to go through to correct the budget cuts of the Socialist Government of José Socrates. [[PSD applause.]] Last March and after countless previous experiences, marked by false negotiations, threats, advances and retreats, coups and counters, poisoning public opinion against the teachers, breaking with the promises made to the teachers and, now, also to the coalition partners, the Government approved Decree-Law No. 36 / 2019, which gives the saying for not saying and only allows the recovery of 2 years and 9 months of service time over several years, leading to flagrant injustices among the teachers. So go, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the « word given, word honored» by Dr. António Costa. Yes yes, honest no! The PSD couldn't even accept Dr. António Costa's cambalhota.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u253	You are the experts of the Cambalhota!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u254	We therefore tabled amendments to the Decree-Law, proposals, which recognise to teachers the right to full recovery of service time provided, provided that the budgetary balance is safeguarded, respect for the Stability and Growth Pact, the country's economic and financial situation, control of public debt and the future sustainability of the public education system. Thus, contrary to what has been the poisoning of public opinion by the PS propaganda machine and the government, the PSD proposals do not involve any budget organies. As is our stamp, the PSD has once again been coherent, responsible and with a sense of state. The PSD reaffirmed that the balance of public accounts is non-negotiable. Strangely enough, the PS voted against these prudent and responsible clauses that the PSD presented and defended in the Plenary and the Education Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u255	You need to get out of the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u256	The PS was irresponsible and definitely did not want to carry out the teachers' rights, forgetting the commitments repeatedly made by him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u257	He's Iraq's propaganda minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u258	Mr. Deputies, I'll be right there, calm down. And nothing goes further to the deplorable explanations of the Minister of Finance, who not only delights to debit a set of false figures on the budgetary impact of such a measure, but also refuses to accept that the solution should not only go through financial measures. In addition, today UTAO, the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, has come to unmask the various 'numbers' that the Minister of Finance has been presenting, substantially reducing the exorbitant numbers referred to above.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u259	Speak in the report, don't speak color!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u260	It is in this framework that the Prime Minister, at a stage with a very weak sense of state, in a process that has not yet been completed, announced that he was resigning, if the amendments to the Decree-Law were to be adopted. A deplorable escape from your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u261	You need to get out of the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u262	A blow to the tranquillity of the people, families and businesses that must preserve and safeguard them. A game that secondarys the country in the face of personal and party interests! A play, all titles, lamentable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u263	There needs to be even more discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u264	Here, with all the splendour, the casino policy! What a difference the behaviour of the Prime Minister, António Costa, with that of the Prime Minister Passos Coelho who, in the face of the dramatic demands of the financial ransom, addressed the Portuguese to tell them: « Despite the difficulties, I do not abandon my country». What a difference! [[PSD applause.]] Faced with this artificial crisis that every day passes becomes a riddle by Dr. António Costa, I want to leave here what was said by the PSD direction and by Dr. Rui Rio, in particular last Sunday. When the amendments to Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 are voted on on on day 10, the PSD will consistently maintain its positions and principles without any amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u265	Squeezes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u266	I insist: we will propose to the plenary of the Assembly the inclusion of proposals for financial safeguard, as we have tabled them and we voted indirectly on 2 May last.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u267	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u268	We did not change position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u269	They've changed, they've changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u270	We don't fall back, we don't have two faces, we don't fool the Portuguese, we don't do the theater. If the Government and the Socialist Party are in good faith, they will vote on our proposals, which seek to meet the rights of teachers, in a framework of scrupulously financial safeguard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u271	You can wait and sit down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u272	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u273	If the PS votes against our financial safeguard proposal, then it will be clear to all Portuguese not only the inconsistencies of the government, but especially the farce of Dr. António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u275	The Prime Minister is sorry to announce that he has abandoned his duties and fled to his responsibilities, invoking arguments that do not exist. Let us repeat, Mr President, that it is clear that if the Socialist Party votes in favour of the PSD proposals, what has been promised to teachers is fulfilled, safeguarding the financial balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u276	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u277	If, on the contrary, the Socialist Party votes against our proposals, as you have already done in the indexary vote in the Commission, it will be the PSD itself who will vote against the diploma, because it does not give the guarantees of the financial and budgetary rigour we stand for. To finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u278	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u279	...we wish that, in this comedy of deception, this artificial crisis, the Portuguese, in general, and the teachers, in particular, are not the innocent victims of a political machinery where what matters only...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u280	Mr President, do not make me take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u281	... are the electoral interests of PS and Dr. António Costa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u282	Mr Adam Silva, the honourable Member clearly passed over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u283	Only in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u284	Mr. Deputies, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u285	Mr. President, I answer two Mrs first. Ladies and gentlemen, then three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u286	All right, Mr. Deputies. Therefore, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u287	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, the problem of fiction, such as that which the Government has raised on the recovery of the hours of service of teachers, is that they rarely endure the confrontation with the truth as time passes. And as time passes, there are three conclusions we can draw on this. The first is that there was no government manoeuvre at the cost of a campaign of social resentment against teachers, unfair and with consequences in the future. The second is that the Minister of Finance has falsified the accounts to feed this campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u288	That's fake and unrecognizable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u289	The third is that the PSD and CDS were playing with the teachers, and this is demonstrated when they retreat to the blackmail of the government. And Rui Rio's excuses for retreating are scrambled. Run away from Rui Rio's mouth for the truth when he says we have more teachers. After all, the speech of old against teachers is that which is true and even unknown that the number of students per class has already been reduced. Secondly, Rui Rio, like Nuno Magalhães, says that the Left Block has put forward proposals to tell everything at once, which is false, and, if they do not present a role that demonstrates this, they risk being called liars because of what they are saying about the proposal that the Left Block has never done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u290	The third lie of Rui Rio is to say that the PSD never gave the proposal submitted and approved, in the specialty, as an approved proposal. It was in the declaration of vote of the discussion, in the specialty, that the PSD said: «It has been frozen for 9 years, 4 months and 2 days and that time is now restored ». He did not say « it will », he said « it is now restored». He also said: "We also guarantee that they are accounted for in 2019 for 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. With regard to the rest of the time, what we consider to be the most correct: the negotiation between the parties. Unfortunately, the criteria for sustainability and financial health have been plummeted. In any case, our vote will allow the government to negotiate with all degrees of freedom." Everything as if it were done, consecrated and assumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u291	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u292	The fact is that, as you said here, UTAO's data disagrees with the idea that the approved proposal, not the one invented, should be adopted unsustainable. UTAO data took away any argument from the PSD and CDS to retract and give the word given to the teachers for not given, except one: the truth is that they remained, and continue, hostages to the threat of resignation of the government and therefore were hostages to the fiction and falsity of the numbers of Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u293	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u294	They have changed their position and the only question I ask is whether they are still sorry in time to safeguard the word given to the teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u295	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u296	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I will not ask you any questions about what the PSD thinks to vote next Friday, because you never know how many times they will still change position there. So, we're saving for Friday to know that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One thing I can tell you: the PS will not follow the PSD reel, be rested! [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputies, your speech is the resurgence of the anti-Parliamentary speech of the PSD, which considers the parliamentary majority illegitimate, which considers it illegitimate a government that has passed with the support of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u297	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u298	So I ask you: do you have any better criteria for the functioning of a Parliament than is the criterion for majority voting? Do you have any better criteria? I also ask you this: you came here to cry crocodile tears by the teachers and partners of the Socialist Party, in this Parliament. Are you as concerned about teachers as you are about our majority partners? It is that I would say everything about your real concern with the teachers! But on this subject, I would also like to ask you the following: Mr Vice-President of the PSD, Prof. David Justino, very timely, wrote today an article in the Public, which fully confirms what we, and myself, have said in this House, since the first debate of this parliamentary opinion, about what the PSD really wanted to do with the proposals it presented. Prof. David Justino says that there are more teachers, criticizes the small number of students per class, criticizes the freeness of school textbooks and promises another series of evils that you certainly would like to do again. Now, I would like to ask you something very concrete, so that we know, after all, what the figure has made each one in this debate. The social communication reports that its Parliamentary Group, at the meeting of the Education Committee, has been in constant contact with the leadership of the party and with President Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u299	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u300	Is that true or is it a lie? For us we know who is now fooling the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u301	To answer these two questions, Mr Adam Silva has the floor. I remember you have 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u302	Mr President, I am obviously sorry that I exceeded the time in my initial speech. Thanking you for your questions, Mrs Joana Mortágua and Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to say first of all that the final vote has not been taken in committee, but it will be done here on Friday.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u303	You know it's gonna be different!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u304	You know perfectly well that this is the case, you have been here for many years and you know perfectly well how Parliament works. In the committee, only an indexary vote was made and what will prevail and consecrated the final vote will perhaps be done on Friday this plenary. Our sense of vote, of course, is very clear and was said, in that rostrum, in an absolutely clear way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u305	It was to sting, what the PSD did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u306	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the question she referred about the PSD relationship with the government, I think today is an extraordinary day, is a day of revelation because we have come to realize how much the Left Block is worn out with the Socialist Party and with the Government. Today we realized that, after all, these four years were tragic years for the Left Block, they were years of betrayal, blackmail.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u307	Let it be, we slept very well at night!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u308	It was years in which we heard here, the Left Block, the most amazing things about the government and the Socialist Party, years of artificial political crisis, of maneuver, were basically years when there was no serious governance of people. But, Mr President, the question is this: did you not know from the beginning that this could happen? Did you not know that when they signed that agreement to the closed door, this would easily happen to the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u309	You will save the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u310	You should know! Now, don't complain about your own illusions. You have been discarded, you feel this and the moments of ruin are obviously always very difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u312	Mr Porfirio Silva, as far as the PSD is concerned, there is no PSD cambalhota! [[Protests from PS, BE and PCP Members.]] No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u313	Then change the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u314	He's a dead man in front with a pirouette!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u315	Mr President, if you feel like piruettes, please! It could be too! Cambalhota, piroueta, that's what you want! I will give you an example of what really were the pirouettes and the reels of the government and the Socialist Party. And the honourable Member knows! Well, when he went to approve the State Budget for 2018, there was the Socialist Party and the Government to be pleased with what the Left Block and the PCP said. There it was! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u316	Complicants on what? [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u317	There it was! More: at the end of 2017, with publication in 2018, a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic was adopted in which you voted in favour of the replacement of all time without any conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u318	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u319	How long? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u320	There it was! And now, what happened? What happened now, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u321	Did you read? How long? Oh, my God! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u322	Come on, sir! I'm trying to explain to you this acrobatic exercise of the PS, and also of you Exa, now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u323	Mr. Deputy, explain quickly, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u324	Mr President, I just wanted to explain the acrobatic exercise. Mr President, the question is truly this: the decree-law... [[PS protests.]] Don't let me talk, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u325	Mr. Deputy, speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u326	Ask the question, but then you don't want the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u327	I'm talking, I'm talking! They just don't want to hear the truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u328	Oh, my lord! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u329	Mr. Deputies, next—see good! — You have made a decree that, yes, it is a huge camel, it is a pirouette, it is what you want! It's cheating the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u330	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u331	They used the teachers, blackmailed the teachers! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u332	We are now entering the second group of questions to Mr Adam Silva. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u333	Mr Adam Silva, I think it is time for us to speak clearly and the PSD is not speaking clearly. If you do not like the expressions 'campahota' or 'pirouette', we will use another expression which I believe corresponds to the truth very much. You cannot expect me to go unnoticed — go there — the tramp that the PSD is giving. Perhaps this expression is even more appropriate to reality. Mr President, from the vote in the Education Committee until Saturday in the words of several PSD people, what was approved was 'good', i.e. counting all the time of service, without differentiated impact on what was planned in the State budget for 2019 and the remaining service time, beyond 2 years and 9 months, negotiated with the unions. This was a "good" solution in the PSD words, but suddenly Rui Rio says that after all that seemed not to be so good and that they would re-present the PSD proposals in order to be approved, or not, and then they could give such a stopover. Mr President, it is true that the government has made this final by electoral strategy. We all know that! But it is also true that the PSD revolution was given by electoral strategy, and this is neither correct nor loyal to the Portuguese. Enough of electoral strategies and we are going to move to effectively solve people's problems. And this problem has also directly to do with this question of counting the time of service, which you now want to contribute to furnishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u334	Will you then approve our proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u335	If you do not understand, in your own words, that this position by the PSD is contradictory in its substance, I no longer know what the PSD can actually understand. If you guarantee that the PSD will maintain consistency in your position, there is only one thing to do: to vote in favour on the 10th day, on the day this issue comes to plenary, the text that the PSD itself also voted in committee. That is indeed coherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u336	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u337	Mr. President, I'm done right now. On the other hand, I would like to hear a word from the honourable Member on this issue: does it make any sense that teachers in Madeira and the Azores are able to count all the time and, on the continent, to discriminate against this? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u338	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Filipe, by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u339	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Rice from PCP and PS Members.]] Sir, let's see if I get it. You came to say that the PS promised teachers the replacement of the service time and then the PSD voted in the committee last Thursday to force the PS to fulfill that promise and therefore voted the replacement of the service time of the teachers. Well, after that, the Prime Minister threatened to resign, the PS dramaticized the financial impact of these measures, the honourable Member here said that UTAO denied this financial impact and that therefore the PS was not right in this matter. All right! The PSD voted what it voted on Thursday and publicly reaffirmed, even last Saturday, the fairness of what it had voted on in committee. In the meantime, the honourable Member is now here saying that either the Socialist Party votes differently from the one it voted on Thursday, when the overall final vote takes place, that is, the Socialist Party gives a walkover about what it voted on Thursday or, if not, will give-CL- the PSD. [[Rice from the PCP, the Greens and the PS.]] That is what the honourable Member has just announced to this House. [[PCP applause.]] That is to say, what Mr Adam Silva here has done is the advance announcement by the PSD that, when it comes to the global final vote, if the PS does not approve the celebrated PSD proposals that would end the 'budgetary orgy' which, after all, he has just said that there would not be. But then what changed? [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] What changed and made the PSD change its position? It is that the famous proposals you mentioned here are basically not more than to say that "the time of service is answered, but if, but if, but if... but if there is money, but if the European Union leaves, but if the month of February has 30 days..."
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u340	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u341	I will finish, Mr. President. That is to say, you are going to restore your position consistently! The party that withdrew rights to teachers does not even want their replacement! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u342	The last request for clarification lies with Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Adam Silva, in fact, you did there in that rostrum, which seems to me to be a real conclusion. It is true that what we have had in the last few days was, above all, a coup d'état of a Prime Minister who, failing to solve the problems that exist and to disguise his inability to solve, decided to create a problem where he does not exist. More: especially having not the Country, but the PS, a problem with the worst way the election campaign was running for you and with the bad candidate you chose, did you decide to do what? Solve the problem? Make other proposals? Presenting other candidates? Don't! It simply resolved to create this huge drama coup, in a fun maneuver, so that everyone would discuss other things and not what was being discussed during the electoral campaign period. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Here you come, as Mr. Prime Minister so desires, we will be forced to say what each party was defending. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there will be no better way to get rid of what each party wrote and what each party proposed on Thursday afternoon. And what I ask the honourable Member is whether or not it is true that the PSD, whether the CDS had proposals that enshrined the principle of counting, but which made it dependent on rigid, declared and written conditions. And the PS — see the climax of political hypocrisy — while complaining that the conditions have not been approved, voted against these same conditions in the committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u344	Well remembered! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u345	So, honourable Member, would it not have been better for the PS to vote in favour of these conditions and have avoided all this crisis? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u346	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr Adam Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u347	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to thank you for your questions and I would like to say the following: I understand the anguish that is currently plowing in the Green Party on this matter. You adopted here a draft resolution, not with the votes of the PSD, but with the votes of the Socialist Party, in which it was “all to all” and therefore there was the full recovery of the past service time of teachers, without any brake or obstacle. At the time, there was a certain celebration, charm and contentment on the part of the Greens Ecological Party, which is very well understood, because, after all, a small parliamentary group, they managed to condemn the Socialist Party to the power of your arguments. But now the question is: do you not feel disappointed with this erratic and contradictory behaviour of the Socialist Party and the Government? Of course you do! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I understand your pain, your distress, your disappointment, but it is part of a parliamentary group that supports this government and therefore you have to see how this problem will be solved. Mr.António Filipe, for us, in the PSD, is all very simple: feet well seated on the ground and head well raised up. [[BE's laughs.]] We are not ashamed, we are not down, we are not servants, as far as this matter is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u349	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u350	Mr President, what we are saying, and we repeat, is very simple: we want to recover the hours of service of teachers in full, but with conditions of budgetary and financial responsibility. Without it, it can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u351	And last week could I?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u352	We realize that we do not align or can align with the principles of financial irresponsibility, which somehow motivate the PCP, but which now, obviously, are a huge contradiction. Mr President, as you can see, this could exist before, but from the moment they served as a cruising to a government, in some way, this whole rhetoric of the CFP, which was a virgin rhetoric, an affirmative rhetoric and, in some ways, taken seriously, at the moment, Mr Deputy, cannot be taken seriously. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, thank you very much for your questions. Yes, we fully agree. It's a theater blow, no more! He is a harassed Prime Minister, who realizes that it is very difficult to endure an election campaign for the European elections that is going wrong to him, that it is very difficult to sustain the erosion that he is being victimized because of the issue of families, in which a government organogram has become almost a kind of genealogical tree of the socialist family, and that it is even very difficult to withstand all this pressure that comes from his former allies, and I do not know if they are still, because today it seems that the alliance has ended within management. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we fully agree on this matter. What the Socialist Party should do, from our point of view, was to fulfil its commitments. It can't be any other way! The Socialist Party has made commitments to teachers and has to find answers to these commitments. After all, one perceives that the one who was the great obstacle, the financial enormity of which Mário Centeno spoke, does not exist and therefore another reason to find a practical, fast and direct solution for teachers, who wait for it and deserve justice in that expectation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u353	For a political declaration by the Socialist Party, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we said from the outset, the PSD had, for the parliamentary assessment of the diploma that mitigates the effects of freezing in the teaching career, a double objective, which was to deceive teachers and lay the foundations for a new attack on public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD anticipates the almost three years of recovery of service time provided by the government, with increased expenditure immediately, and at the same time simulates that it recognizes the nine years, but postpones to the Greek calendars its payment and wants to finance this measure by returning to lay off teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD wants to permanently infernify the life of the public school, imposing that this is a single topic of negotiation, year after year, feeding a permanent cristpação, absolutely harmful to the public school and the teachers themselves, who are tired of being treated as if there were any conflicts of interest between the teachers and the country they serve every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS and the government could not accommodate that blow. Therefore, the Prime Minister has clearly alerted the country to what was at stake, because the financial unsustainableness of a measure always goes hand in hand with its social unsustainability. The Prime Minister was loyal to the Portuguese and this can only deserve our support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, with the defrosting of careers about to begin, with the State Budget for 2018 in preparation, was raised the new question of the recovery of service time, which was not in the electoral programme of any party, which was not in the Government Programme, which was not in the agreements on the left. Nevertheless, we said: "Let's see what it is possible to do."
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u355	No, no, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u356	Yes, the PS voted for a recommendation for the government to seek recovery of service time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u357	Everything! All the time of service!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u358	Yes, the PS said that we should try, but that could only be done in negotiations between government and trade unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u359	In negotiation? Oh, my God! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u360	...as, in fact, it is written in our own recommendation that we approve. And that's what the government did: it tried! He signed with the unions a declaration of commitment defining three fundamental variables for negotiation: the time, mode and timetable of recovery. The trade union spokesman himself, in the early hours of the signing of the undertaking, acknowledged this very thing: "If it had been written here nine years, four months and two days, this document would not be called a declaration of commitment and would probably be called an agreement. (...) We go out with everything open». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, contrary to what those who want to rewrite history say, the time to recover was defined as one of the variables to negotiate. The government has been engaged in negotiations: it has come out of its initial position — freezing, but not recovery — and has approached the union position, proposing almost three years of recovery, step of approach which the unions have never given. They chose the government as an enemy and thus served the teachers' interests badly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, those who lack respect for teachers are those who try to instrumentalize them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Pedro Pimpão's laughs.]] Mrs. Members, equality between workers and sustainability in the time of the measures taken are criteria that require that similar careers be considered together. on this basis, the recovery of the nine years would cost, at cruise speed, and as is also shown in the UTAO report, EUR 800 million per year. This measure represents, in each year, seven times the cost of measuring social passes and five times the cost of measuring school textbooks for all, measures that the right was so critical. Some say: « but there is no increase in expenditure this year, because the government already expects almost three years». Wrong! The Government's diploma is of phased application, while the universal application on 1 January last implies anticipation of expenditure. Why do we not apply the same solution as the Azores and Madeira? Because the Autonomous Regions have no financial responsibility for the other special careers or retirements and therefore the financial impact is not comparable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to those who say « pay for the commitment made this year for the year », we answer that this is a tremendous irresponsibility. The truth is, pure and hard, is that the Portuguese have reason to trust whoever made these accounts, because they are the same ones who made the accounts that allowed to reverse cuts, defuse careers, increase pensions, raise the minimum wage and pay base of the Public Administration, while controlling the deficit and beginning to reduce the weight of the debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u362	Mrs. Members, Dr. Rui Rio confirmed our reading yesterday: the PSD wants to fund its measure by firing teachers, as tens of thousands have done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Confirming that you are lost in your labyrinth, Dr. Rui Rio says that "it's impossible to do the math" — why won't you tell UTAO now? Oh, my God! — but that just means that Rui Rio did not make the accounts and that may explain the lethal dose of irresponsibility that he took in this process. [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]] But, truly, Dr. Rui Rio has revealed himself to the Portuguese in these last days. In order to cover up the bullshit that got into, he said, against what everyone could see, that there was no vote. But there was! He says that if there had been a vote in the committee they would have voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u363	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u364	I will count on your tolerance as you have with the PSD, Mr President. But there was a vote and the Vice-President of his bench came, at the end, ufana, to declare it "a process where the PSD is proud to have been the fundamental party to a responsible and correct solution". [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Now, where the fiber of a politician really turns out is when he doesn't hesitate to try to build a smoke curtain, throwing mud on Parliament, humiliating the Members of his own party,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... that, according to the social and undisputed communication made here, they were always on the phone with him during the meeting, and saying that the work of the Education Committee was 'a mess, as always' — his words - seeking to give the idea that no one knew what he was doing well, that no one knew what he had voted for. The truth is that we all knew well what we had voted for, particularly those who came to sing victory to microphones. If someone spoke about texts without knowing them, it certainly was not us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u365	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u366	In fact, these days have made Rui Rio better known to the Portuguese, for his own harm. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and I will finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u367	It's good to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u368	... someone has to be able to reconcile budgetary responsibility with social responsibility. The Socialist Party continues, as yesterday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u369	Sir, don't make me take your word for it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u370	... determined to do this work, with those who know that a decent society can never be built against the rights of workers or the shiver of solidarity among all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u371	Mr Porfirio Silva, let me just say the following: it is not good to say that I should give you the same tolerance that I gave to the PSD, which is my own party, because, as it was clear in this debate, I gave tolerance to all the parliamentary groups that intervened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u372	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u373	No, you said exactly that! He said I should give him the same tolerance I gave to the PSD and I gave tolerance to everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u374	They're used to doing whatever they want! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u375	Well, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u376	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u377	All right. The first request for clarification is from Mrs Joana Mortágua, the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u378	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, when the government dramatized this fiction about teachers' career, used two arguments. The first was that the Government did not have conditions of governance; the second was that it would not have conditions of sustainability if this proposal were adopted in Parliament and would therefore have to resign. On governance, we are talking about: the PS knows very well that this parliamentary majority is as stable as it has always been, until it wants to continue to negotiate the files that are still to be closed. But on sustainability, UTAO gave us some clarifications. First, it gave us the difference between liquid and crude, and the difference is great. Secondly, we were told that the government used new criteria to present these numbers, which it had not used in previous measures, because when it presented the numbers of defrosting careers it always used liquid and never gross values, as now, and when it talked about the increase in pensions it never paid the additional annual cost, it always spoke in the additional year of the increase in pensions, each time they increased, as it always was. Thirdly, UTAO has explained to us that the budgetary impact of these measures respects the rules of the deficit and not only respects them as it maintains the government's expected surplus and announced by it. And he tells us that these measures that respect the rules of the deficit refer to a proposal that is not even the proposal that has been tabled or even approved by this Parliament. Despite this, in recent days, the government has made a succession of millions : EUR 650 million in the first phase ; EUR 800 million later ; however, in the middle, EUR 1100 million appeared ; and UTAO came to say « calm, because it is EUR 400 million ». The conclusion is this: either the Minister of Finance does not know how to account or, then, the Minister of Finance wanted to deceive the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u379	It's both!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u380	Since the PS is tired of saying that the Minister of Finance is the biggest one to account for, I think the conclusion is very obvious to everyone. Mário Centeno made the country count the millions of proposals that never existed and much less was approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u381	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u382	...and yet lied about these millions, as the PS lied about the existence of retroactives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u383	That's the usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u384	... as the PS lied about the existence of privileges— said the President of the Chamber of Lisbon and said - in the ministers of this government -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u385	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u386	... as the PS lied about the inequality that would exist in relation to the general careers, when, in fact, this inequality is what exists now, because the general careers have already recovered all the time of service and, in fact, all this has turned out to be a great campaign, fuelled by the social resentment that you have nurtured in relation to teachers and teachers, which weakens the public school. Therefore, Mr President, what I have to ask you is whether you are not ashamed to accept the fake numbers of Mário Centeno to manipulate a campaign of resentment against teachers, by mere electoral tactics, if you are not ashamed to manipulate a campaign against teachers for election reasons. [[Congratulations from BE and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u387	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u388	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, may make the rounds to be understood, but the PS approved the nine years of service of teachers in Resolution No 1 / 2018. I well remember seeing Mr. João Paulo Correia standing in the front row identifying exactly that sense of vote, and even I went looking for your statement of vote to demarcate from that vote, but, see, I did not find it there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u389	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u390	Mr Porfirio Silva has profiled these nine years and has only changed his mind on Thursday, where he specializes. I think it's here, yes, that you see the fiber of a politician. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u391	Then I also heard Mr Finance Minister say that, as a result of the specialty vote, there had been proposals from the CDS and PSD that were brakes of sustainability and that this had been irresponsible. Do you know who voted against, sir? It was Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u393	Apparently, in the eyes of the Minister of Finance, you are irresponsible, but you will certainly talk about it. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Pedro Pimpão.]] And then, as if it hadn't arrived, UTAO is still saying that after all, the government's accounts were wrong. Mr President, the real issue on the table is the hypocrisy of the PS position. It is that of the two: either teachers' career is financially sustainable, and the PS has only to respect, or it is unsustainable and the PS has the obligation, I repeat, as a government, to change, as the CDS proposes from two years ago to here. The PS causes a crisis, because the country cannot afford the career, but it does not have the courage to defend its change. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u394	So it's hypocritical and we already know what it's going to be like with the PS from here to the front. Unfreeze now, to freeze later. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u395	So, honourable Member, what will it be like? Is the career sustainable and the state, as a good person, has the obligation to pay or the career is unsustainable and has to be renegotiated?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u396	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u397	Where is the government's courage, which never put this proposal on the table? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u398	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u399	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, service time is recognized in several State budgets, which is lacking. Now, honourable Member, we would like to ask a few questions about this situation: why did the PS make the recovery of a right in a real drama, making a blackmail operation and instrumentalizing the fair demands of the workers, to respond to their headquarters as an absolute majority? Why did the Socialist Party choose to put workers against workers, attempting to promote divisionism and not dealing with all the special careers simultaneously? Thirdly, how does the PS justify that, at five months of the elections, the government threatens to resign itself, making the centre of its argumentary the recovery of a right that is from teachers and all careers of special bodies? Then why did the Socialist Party shake the papal of numbers to the exhaustion, always different, now up, or down, or in the middle, without real support, without a strictly demonstrable support, only and only, Mr. Deputies, to frighten the Portuguese population? Why is it that, like the PSD and the CDS, the Socialist Party does indeed make an inversion of its speech — a cambalhota — on the realization of the counting of service time, which it approved in State budgets, which adopted in Resolution No. 1 / 2018, a resolution that said, clearly, with all the letters, that all the time of service of special careers had to be counted for repositioning? Oh, my God! And, Mr President, one more question we would like to leave to you: how does it justify the call for convergence to PSD and CDS, by PS, to ensure a majority that did not have, precisely in order to be able to lead the recovery of the time worked by special career workers? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u400	You have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u401	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to clarify one thing, taking into account the recurring speech of the PS, which is the following: this question of counting time of service for the purposes of progress in the career of teachers and other special bodies is not a privilege!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u402	Who said that? Who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u403	In general, I am talking about the speeches I hear by the Socialist Party, which are trying to get past this idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u404	No, don't listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u405	But I'm glad you don't think so. It's not a privilege, it's a right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u406	But we know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u407	So now, of course, you will agree: if it is a right, it is certainly to be assured!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u408	Then, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u409	So, of course, Mr President! So, as we've already talked about the PSD and CDS trambs here, now, let's talk about, to use your own expression, the PS reels. I would like to remind you that in December 2017 the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of a draft resolution by the Greens Ecological Party which, by having the PS's favorable vote, was approved, giving place to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018, which says the following: the Government, in dialogue with the trade unions ensures that in careers whose progression also depends on the time of service provided, should be counted all that time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u410	Everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u411	... for the purposes of career progression and corresponding remunerative valuation. Have you voted or not voted for this resolution by the Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u412	Yes, yes! We voted! I said it! He refuses to ask what I've already said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u413	Yes, yes! So the honourable Member and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group took on the responsibility of counting all the hours of the teachers' service. So, what are we gonna talk about? Manipulation of the PS Parliamentary Group by the Government? Is that what we're going to talk about? Or is your obligation, in fact, and will we go back to the beginning, to defend the right of teachers and other special bodies? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, it's not worth everything! It's not worth everything! You, in the Education Committee, first of all put forward great arguments about the unconstitutionality of what was being proposed. Then they realized that, after all, there was no unconstitutionality. Then they moved on to the argument of the matter. But now UTAO has already come to deny the government, reducing to less than half the amount that the government was raising to heaven! Therefore, Mr President, you are completely discrediting yourself. There is no credibility in your speech and there is no reason to be right when you are absolutely not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u414	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u415	You are denying a right to teachers and other special bodies, and this, in our view, is absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u416	You have the floor, for one last request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pimão, of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, we realize from your statement that the PSD and Dr. Rui Rio were the main focus of the Socialist Party's concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u418	We're so worried! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u419	But what Dr. Rui Rio and the PSD Members would like us to discuss positive changes in the education system in this plenary, which we have been valuing educational agents. Unfortunately, that is not what is happening because, by the words of all parliamentary groups, we are facing a crisis, a farce. We have all realized that teachers were instrumentalized by mere political tactics, which at nothing contribute to the greater design of the stability and credibility of this sector, which is vital for the development of our country. And the most important thing is that Mr Porfirio Silva goes up to the rostrum to say that it is the opposition that is creating illusions to the teachers, after all we have said — and I will repeat — who are responsible for the Socialist Party and the Government in commitment to the full counting of the time of service provided by the teachers. This happened on 18 November 2017 in a declaration of commitment signed with the various education unions; this happened in the negotiation of the State budget for 2018, which defended the full counting of the time of service of teachers, which was introduced by the Socialist Party to ensure the approval of this State budget ; this happened in this Parliament on 15 December 2017, with the approval of the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, with the votes of the Socialist Party, which defended the full counting of the time of service provided by teachers,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u420	...give the pirouettes you want, that's what's written there;... [[PSD applause.]] ... and this happened when the Secretary of State Alexandra Leitão came here to replace the Minister of Education, in the discussion of the State budget, and committed the government to the full counting of the time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u421	That's a lie! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u422	Mr. Porfirio Silva, stay calm!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u423	Lies, to me, bother me so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u424	You can still say it's a lie, but it's statements that are written and commitments that are signed! And in this matter, the word was not an honest word! [[PSD applause.]] But now we are going to today: is it true or not that the Socialist Party has voted against the working clauses that have allowed it to safeguard the economic and financial conditions of the recovery of service time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u425	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u426	Is that true or not? Oh, my God! I'd like to know your answer, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u427	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u428	And now, considering the advocacy that will be held on Friday, I would like to know what the Socialist Party's vote will be, since, according to the Prime Minister's own statements, the only issue that was at stake was that of the country's economic and financial conditions... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u429	... and if they vote in favour of the PSD's attorney, this issue is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u430	Don't stay, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u431	What is the Socialist Party's position? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u432	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Porfirio Silva. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that he has only three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u433	Mr President, if I had recently given the idea that I was associating your act with your bench, it was unintentional. I'm sorry, that wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u434	If my interpretation has been abusive, I apologize to you, Mr President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u435	We understand, Mr. President. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. Regarding the issue of UTAO, it has already been answered several times. I see that the Left Block is now very excited about UTAO, and I think that this is an interesting political change of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u436	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u437	It's not very exciting!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u438	Let's go! As for the work clauses, Mr Pedro Pispon, the sustainability clauses are the analysis that the Government has made during this year and a half of the conditions it had to give or not. If they had thought about it, they had not taken this irresponsible step. The brake clauses were in the analysis that the Government has made and support the government's diploma. It's answered! But there is one thing your bench has not yet clarified, although I have already mentioned it twice: has your bench been or has it not been on the phone permanently with Dr. Rui Rio?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u439	But what does that matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u440	It's interesting! To find out if you were the gentlemen who lied or if you were Dr. Rui Rio who lied in all this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u441	Sir, you're lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u442	I am not going to ask Mrs Margarida Mano because they did not even have the delicacy to let this debate speak. They let her fall too, like your president! Open... As for the resolution of 2017, I called this subject here because, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa should know, since she has been in this for some time, at the time of that resolution it was not clear what time the whole service was. [[PSD, CDS-PP and Green Protests.]] And it's not written there for 9 years! Don't! [[PSD, CDS-PP and the Greens.]] Are you laughing? Oh, my God! So ask Prof. Mário Nogueira, which he explains! from Mrs Ana Rita Bessa until I understand, because the CDS, on that Thursday night, published a tweet saying « no, we do not approve the payment of full time! Perhaps you did not know, when you voted the article that spoke in 3411 days, that 3411 days were 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, but you know! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They know, because I think it's relevant information, so they're not making things up, saying things we didn't say. Mrs Ana Mesquita, we do not try to put workers against workers. Now, there is one very simple thing: we do not want to put teachers against public school and public school against teachers. And what you're doing is digging the public school cave, until the right is happy with your strategy, until people start looking for the private, instead of looking for the public school. I would also like to say more, Mrs Ana Mesquita: after the call for convergence with the PSD and CDS, which came from a well-known unionist, to vote in a certain way, do not talk to us about calls for convergence. It is that photograph on Thursday—and now, I take advantage of it to say that I did not pull it, as some think—is that it shows very well the 'Last Supper' of the negative coalition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u443	For a political declaration under Article 71 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, the words of the honourable Member who did not register Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this period of grispation, I try to bring here some period of relaxation. [[Laughing.]] I will not use this second and last political statement as a non-registered Member to talk about the political crisis about counting the time of service of teachers. Everyone knows what I think about this. I consider the Government's proposal balanced and fair within the still vulnerable conditions of the country, although it understands the dissatisfaction of teachers. I am going to talk about more structural, longer-term things that have to do with the quality of democracy. And I'm going to talk about cooperation and consensus. When I became a non-registered member, several friends of the PS and several journalists questioned me about my political future, and speculated. At the end of today's speech, I will give a comprehensive and definitive answer on this subject. This is an important issue — and you will understand why — to make my motivation credible to still be here among you. Yesterday, I organized in this House a conference on electoral systems with the Institute of Public Policy. All or almost all of the parties represented and we noticed the natural differences we are used to, but there were also convergences. The differences were about which would be the best electoral system for Portugal. And in fact, there are those who defend the German system, there are those who do not defend it. But there were some curious convergences, in particular the idea that we should walk towards the aggregation of small electoral circles, particularly the Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u445	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u446	For those three electoral circles of the Alentejo — Beja, Évora and Portalegre — there was at least some convergence on the part of the parties that were represented. But the fundamental question, regardless of what the electoral system will be, which is a central part of the future of our democracy, is this: would it be possible if half a million Portuguese wanted to have a new electoral system, that would be possible? And the answer is: “No! In the current legislative framework, even if half a million citizens wanted to submit a legislative initiative, they could not do so. And it is not because of the matter of the absolute reserve of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, that is why the law on the legislative initiative of citizens says that everything or almost everything that is reserved of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic cannot be the legislative initiative of the citizens. Well, I did some historical research and found that, despite all the differences that exist here, there are almost consensuss in this House. And on this matter there is almost consensus, since the Left Block proposed, in the IX Legislation, the Bill No. 9 / IX, the PCP, in that same Legislation, proposed the Bill No. 68 / IX and the PSD and the CDS also proposed in this Legislation, the Bill No. 145 / IX, which basically defend very similar ideas to those I have now presented, so I have no originality in this matter. And what are those ideas? They translate into a very simple idea: that matters of the absolute reserve of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, except those whose legislative competence of the initiative is from other sovereign bodies, such as the case of autonomous regions, which have the exclusive competence of the legislative initiative in the revision of the electoral system of the autonomous regions themselves, should be open to citizens. This would obviously strengthen the quality of democracy. I will now answer the initial question, which is obviously of interest to me, but which may also be of interest to someone else: my political future, my career. My political career will end on October 6, 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u447	With P.S.'s applause!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u448	I was three years old in the Socialist Left Movement, then I was 15 years old, I was three years old in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, with great pleasure, and I was an independent year, that is, seven years old — it's enough. I do not use the words « enough », nor « enough », for the reasons they should imagine. Why is it important for me to clarify this, that I will return to college on October 7th? Because I want it to be credible from today that I have neither, nor have I ever had, personal ambitions, nor political ambitions. I'm here by chance, because Antonio Costa decided to invite me here. But I have three projects in which I will continue to work: one, in the extension of the citizens' legislative initiative; two, in the selection of leadership positions; three, in an initiative, which I will present on Friday, on the financing of political associations and political foundations. In conclusion, I would say that the good news is that at the latest, on October 6, they see themselves free of me. The bad news is that they will still have to stop me for a few more months here, in this House, with the certainty that until then I will continue to work, I will give the best I know and I can, until the end of this legislature. I'll give everything. I don't expect to get anything, but that's not why I'm here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Congrats from PS and PS MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u449	You now have the floor for an intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). Mr Ulisses Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this Parliament, I conclude a 10-year journey as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. In my own time, and in another partisan framework, there are already more than three years, I announced it would be, and so it will be. contrary to what is the foam of the days and times, I am proud of this time, of what function, of what it was possible to build or try to build, praise, propose or denounce, even if the sphere of intervention of each of us is excessively conditioned by regimental divisions and party discipline, which urgently needs to ease to strengthen the image of the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u451	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u452	We all have an obligation not to cantonate in the trench of media fear or politically correct, which has greatly contributed to the discrediting of the political class. Step back, step back, I fear that we are close to the abyss of a growing populism, on the left and on the right, which can only be faced with arguments, with reason, with vision of the future, but also with the courage to defend what our principles and values are, whatever they are. It is in indecision and in false consensus that the paths of the undesirable caudylisms are cultivated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u453	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u454	And unfortunately, we have not been too strong in that regard. This must be the House of the political debate par excellence, of the confrontation of ideological alternatives that democratically separate us, but also of the search for the maximum common denominators that serve our society, and the purpose of building a better future for generations to come. In order to achieve this, it is also necessary to reform the rules of operation of the Assembly of the Republic and to make it clear that the Members are representatives of the voters, of the Portuguese society. This should be seen, defended and valued, not as mere officials, whose obligation is to sit in a plenary session, even if the result of such presence is marginal or null. For this, it is necessary to say no to the proposals that aim at our functionalization and to all those who wish to respond passively to the demagogic vision of those who build the image of the excessive benefits of the political class. To that end, it is necessary to reduce the number of plenary sessions, and to give them the content of the major political debates and of the legislative initiatives that are structured, not flooding them with technical discussions. It is necessary to strengthen work in specialized parliamentary committees, to give them more visibility and recognition for the work done. It is necessary to reform the voting procedures, considering which must be carried out in plenary session and those which may be carried out elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u455	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u456	I shall certainly leave with a lack of parliamentary work and of the friendships which can also be built here, as much as this seems strange to those who only value differences, controversial discussions, the media circus. Yes, there is time and space to also build bridges, from a personal point of view. And it was so many that I was able to build with colleagues from all the benches. I quote, as a mere example, but an example that tells me, right at the beginning of my duties as a Member, the complicity discovered between my mother and the mother of Mr. José Manuel Pureza, in the old school days lived in Aveiro, memories that it is always so good to find in the trunks of time and that will surely last. I would also like to stress the quality and commitment of all officials of the Assembly of the Republic, for example that it is never too high. I do so in the person of Dr Joaquim Ruas, without discrimination for anyone else, but because he has always accompanied the work of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, which I have integrated over the past 10 years. In the same sense, and for the same reasons, I leave a note of deep appreciation to the advisers and assistants of all parliamentary groups, in the person of Eng. Sofia Vale and all others, who, with great quality and complete availability, also accompanied me throughout this journey. I am very proud in these ten years that I have served Portugal as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. First of all, in defending also the interests of my electoral circle, the circle of Aveiro, where I was born, grew up, I became a man and a politician, where I also began to grow old. With many battles won (many of them quietly, almost anonymously), others still in progress (and I hope they have due successor) and others unfortunately lost (some, in an English way). Secondly, the concern that I have always given priority over the last 10 years to the defence of questions relating to the Portuguese Sea and, in particular, to the fisheries and aquaculture sector, which have been very positive in this period, to which I am pleased to be linked. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, let me say a final word to myself. The Assembly of the Republic is the House of Dreams of April. Here they meet, and they have to meet every day the expectations of those who believe that representative democracy is the guarantee of a just, solidarity and innovative society. A society that combines the private initiative with the fair redistribution of wealth produced in the community. A society that ensures that no one stays behind, at work or in disease, because it becomes a disadvantaged environment. If democracy affirms itself, proclaiming itself as an aprioristic and essential factor in development, its defense is made with legislation and policies that, put into practice, dignify the real life of concrete people. It was, and that is our responsibility, to transform reality to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, to open windows of hope and see the sky of April. May the sea be fulfilled, which is accomplished April, we continue to want to meet Portugal, a country so short in territory, but so vast in history, culture, imagination. It was an honor, a privilege, to have served the country in the central nerve of sovereignty, in the Assembly of the Republic, and to have worked side by side with so many parliamentary colleagues for the future of Portugal! I am very grateful to everyone with whom I shared this, for me, gratifying walk. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP, standing, and from the PS, BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u457	Mr Ulisses Pereira, I believe that the applause you received from the House is a good demonstration of consideration and that all Members have for themselves and that it is, of course, extensible to the Members of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. We then move to the third point of our order of business, with the appreciation of petitions 495 / XIII / 3. a ( Association of IP3 Users and Survivors ) — Urgent intervention in IP3, for security, accessibility and development and 504 / XIII / 3. a — ( João Fernando Marques Rebelo Cotta et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the complete and appropriate requalification of IP3, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1499 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Construction of road linkage in a motorway profile between Viseu and Coimbra, ensuring an unmanaged solution, 1486 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the re-qualification of IP3, its maintenance without tolls and in security conditions, 1663 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the main route No 3 ( IP3 ) and 1634 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Urgent requalification of IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, and its maintenance without tolls. To begin the debate on this subject, Mr Pedro Alves has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pedro Alves excuses coming quickly because we still have a number of people saying goodbye to Mr. Ulisses Pereira, symbolically, until he leaves today, I believe! [[Pause.]] We are now in a position to proceed. Please, Mr. Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u458	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating the petitioners here present and telling you that, at the end of one more Socialist Government Legislation, with a left-wing parliamentary majority, the IP3 is the same. It's the same, no, it's worse! There was no relevant intervention over these four years. Despite all the propaganda of former Minister Pedro Marques, the IP3 remains a road section with significant traffic levels, bad security conditions and high fallacy. It was four years of lies, four years of forgetting.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u459	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u460	If nothing has been done in these four years, the government's bad political options are due. On the one hand, to captivating and to the absence of public investment, on the other, to the ideological prejudice on the left that, without any technical justification, cancelled the Via dos Duques because it is a participatory concession, in which investment and risk were exclusively private, at no cost to the taxpayers, ensuring the current IP3 as a non-supported alternative. As in 2005 José Socrates cancelled the ongoing competition for the construction of the Viseu-Coimbra motorway and the conclusion of the IC12, between Canas de Señorim and Mangualde, to include them later in a PPP (public-private partnership), also António Costa and its management comrades concluded in 2015 an agreement which was poured into the Government Programme and which, due to ideological objections, prevented the construction of the Via dos Duques. An agreement that served only the personal and political interests of the parties and their representatives, sitting here, which affected a whole region of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u461	It must be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u462	It is never too much to remember that if this project had not been abandoned, the works would have-CL-initiated in mid 2017. Unfortunately, that is not the case. During this legislature, despite the insistence of PSD Members, nothing has been done and there is no guarantee or commitment that it will be realized. There is no previous study, there is no book of charges, there is no timetable for execution, and there is even a political will to do so. If there were, the investment would be foreseen at least in the NIP 2030.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u463	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u464	Does anyone believe that a work such as the duplication of IP3 is not part of the structural investment priorities of the National Investment Plan? Someone believes that requalification is to advance, but that no specific money has ever been entered in the State Budgets, approved by the left, when did this never fail to the Lisbon Metro stations? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although for the PSD the duplication of the current IP3 is not the best, most comprehensive and cost-free solution for taxpayers, we cannot stand in the way in which nothing is done and does not move forward. With this initiative, the PSD aims to recommend to the Government that all procedures should be carried out with a view to the effective and urgent implementation of the Viseu-Coimbra road link in a self-portrait profile, ensuring the existence of an open solution. Ordered the end of austerity by the government, it is time to clarify, it is time to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u465	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u466	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is time to speak the truth and make firm commitments in what is the greatest and most urgent national priority in road investment. The region deserves, people need and the country can no longer wait. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u467	For an intervention by the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u468	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP starts by welcoming the thousands of petitioners today under discussion, including the IP3 User and Survivors Association, present in the galleries. By connecting Coimbra and Viseu, IP3 counts daily with intense traffic, either in terms of light vehicles or in terms of heavy vehicles. The appreciation of IP3 is not only a necessity, due to the very serious security issues, such as a question of justice for the populations of the districts of Coimbra and Viseu, which are entitled to conditions worthy of mobility without costs which, in particular, undermine the need for regional development. This is indeed the main road axis at the service of the Centre region. Who travels on this road, quickly and easily realizes the many problems that have been reported over the years—it is not now, it is years ago! — by the Association of IP3 Users and Survivors. They are: the gaps on the floor; the abatements of the platform; the conditioning, the reduction, the strangulation of the rolling strips; the lack of central separator in considerable parts of the route, particularly in the Viseu district; the non-removal and non-replacement of the rails that are going to be degraded or destroyed as a result of the number of accidents that are unfortunately still occurring; the inadequacy of the bands of acceleration and deceleration; the need for correction of many connecting knots—and here we can also talk about the IC6 — but also the lack of links and crossings; the serious problem in the Spinheira area, which has authentic caves below the floor; the problem that remains in the descent of the Button; and also the lack of proper signal for those who travel on this road, which, in fact, makes it difficult—and much! — the life you have to use. The government has long announced the re-qualification of IP3. He even used this requalification as a weapon of attack against the recovery of the full time of service of the teachers, which we have discussed a little while ago, in a lamentable statement he produced on this matter. We have always said, and we continue to say, that both rights must be respected and that the requalification of IP3 is urgent and must be a reality. The Infrastructure of Portugal will have transmitted to the Association of Users and Survivors of the IP3 that the integral work of the piece, with about 16 km, between the knots of Penacova and the Blue Lagoa, at the mouth of the river Dão, has the case at the Court of Auditors in its final phase and will start from May. We are already in May, we need the work to be done! In addition to the proposals we bring in our draft resolution for road reclassification, so that it has better conditions for safety and traffic, what the CFP also defends, even before the background works, is the placement of the central separator between Santa Comba and Viseu, especially in places of greater sinequality, that the works that will begin to curate all safety standards, especially at the level of signage, and that their traffic deviations are guaranteed. In addition, we believe that the whole IP3 should have four tracks, but contrary to what the government has been saying, we reject that the extension of the portion of the Mondego Bookshop to self-road profile can be made at the cost of possible toll payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u469	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u470	The PCP will always defend IP3 without tolls, valued, requalified. The price that the population has been paying for for many years is enough because of the lack of a road in conditions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u471	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for a speech by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u472	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, to the users and to the Association of Users who have submitted petitions for the full re-qualification of IP3, our greeting and our gratitude for your citizenship initiative to provide a debate on this subject and also to clarify the positions of the various parties regarding the basically convergent texts of the two petitions. We cannot fail to thank this opportunity and say that the happy expression that one of the petitions has in its text of wanting an IP3 «free of toll» is, for us, fully subscribed. We believe that it is a very synthetic and very true expression in relation to what the future IP3 re-qualified should be. Therefore, although the various draft resolutions that are on the table for our assessment are different in their explanatory statements, and although the PSD resolution project is a little bit on the border between an IP3 ported, i.e. a highway, the Via dos Duques,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u473	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u474	... and an IP3 in a highway profile, without tolls — there's a little on the border! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u475	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u476	... we are in favour of all the draft resolutions being adopted in this House and we will vote in favour of them. However, it is necessary to realize that the contents of the various draft resolutions are not identical. It has already been noticed that the PSD misses the Way of the Dukes in toll regime because it is the opportunity to have another road PPP, that you are so friends and so advocates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u477	Don't lie! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u478	... but irrespective of that, it is also true that the various draft resolutions, particularly those of the Left Block, have a set of items that are worth stressing, because they will also be the subject of the pronouncement of the various parliamentary groups. In addition to the comprehensive re-qualification of IP3 on a motorway profile, with two routes of movement for each runway, it is also important to point out that the various resolution projects converge on a circumstance that is not yet sufficiently clarified, to know whether the whole re-qualification of IP3 will be done on a highway profile or whether it will be only 85 % of its extension, as is the Portugal Infrastructure project. Therefore, this convergence must be clarified in this debate, in the sense that we, in particular the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u479	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u480	... we do not accept that there is a strangulation in the middle of the route, between Library of the Mondego and the Dão foz, for a change of profile of two routes in two runs, because this circumstance is a danger factor that enhances the increase of road sinisterity. For this reason, the requalification of IP3 should be fully self-portrait profile and should, of course, be a road without tolls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u481	You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Greens Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u482	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words on behalf of the Greens are to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the two petitions that we are now discussing, in particular those petitioners with us today, to accompany the work, but also the various associations that have promoted and stimulated these two petitions. In fact, as the petitioners very well point out, the IP3 is the main link, and the shortest, between two of the main cities in the center of the country, Coimbra and Viseu. In addition to being a fundamental element in terms of mobility in these territories, this road, which has been rapidly completed for 30 years, is also a structural feature, since it links several additional motorways and itineraries. In other words, we are talking about a central road axis to connect the region with each other, which is with the country and, indirectly, with the outsider, thus contributing to alleviate the problems of interiority of this territory. It is true that, since it came into operation, this road has revealed the problems resulting from its sinuous tracing and the consequent insecurity, and it has been considered, in fact, one of the most dangerous roads in the country, where thousands of accidents with fatal victims have occurred. Data related to sinality show that between 1991 and 2017 nearly two thousand accidents occurred only between Coimbra and Penacova, with about 2000 injured and more than a hundred deaths. It happens that despite the obvious problems and insecurity in IP3, the successive governments — not only this one, say, in favour of the truth! — were literally removed from the problem without any substantive requalification. The interventions that have occurred were scarce and punctual, and the lack of maintenance of this route has led to successive degradation that contributes to accentuate the problems of insecurity and makes the way more dangerous. For this reason, populations have been demanding, and well, the requalification of IP3, mobilising themselves in the presentation of the two petitions we are now discussing, which, moreover, shows the unequivocal will of the populations and users in the rehabilitation and importance of this structural way in the mobility and development of the region. Thus, and seeking to respond to the concerns of the petitioners, The Greens bring to discussion a legislative initiative, so that the Government undertakes urgent re-qualification of the IP3 between Coimbra and Viseu ; ensures that the IP3, in its entirety, is extended to two ranges in each direction and with a central separator; take steps to ensure the safety of users, until the completion of the substantive re-qualification works; ensure, at least in areas of greater relevance, ecological corridors as a way of mitigating the effects of ecosystem fragmentation and creating the conditions for the movement of animals; finally, ensure that after completion of the re-qualification, no tolls are applied. The Greens thus seek this legislative initiative to meet the concerns of the petitioners and the purposes of the two petitions under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u483	The word now belongs to Mr. Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u484	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: first of all, I would like to welcome, congratulate and congratulate all the petitioners, some of whom are present here, on the fact that they exercise this act of citizenship, which is to promote important petitions such as this which we are discussing today. We all agree. The road linking Coimbra to Viseu, IP3, is one of the most busy in the country, being in a deep state of degradation and without minimum conditions of dignity and security, being a responsibility of all the last governments, without exception. It is also known by the « road of death», such has been the severe sinality that occurred there too often. Flooring, access nodes, stems, rainwater, central separators, signage, among others, are examples of absolutely necessary and urgent intervention. In 2018, the current government presented a solution that is not ideal, it is a dignified and appropriate solution, which deserved broad support among users, business associations, city halls and political parties. This solution implies passing the highway without tolls in the section between Coimbra and Penacova and in the section between the Foz do Dão and Viseu. In the section between Penacova and the Dão Foz, a profound rehabilitation will be carried out. It is an investment of EUR 134 million, fully supported by the State budget, applied over 75 km. I understand the skepticism of many. Sometimes I feel the same skepticism myself. And it is more than justified, because there have been many commitments from the past that have not been honored, but this time I have the strong conviction that the given word will be even honored. What was done by the current government was not a mere plaque or a PowerPoint. this time, studies, projects were written budget headings and contests were launched. Yes, contests were launched. Without that, there's no work! These are concrete, objective and necessary developments. this time, I even have the hope and conviction that the work will be done. In fact, it is important to mention and highlight the following: in the section between Penacova and the Foz do Dão, the competition was launched for the realization of the work in July 2018. The contract was signed in January of this year and sent in February to the Court of Auditors. And today, Mr. Pedro Alves, the office of extension of charges was published in the Diário da República, contrary to what you said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u485	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u486	That's great news, therefore, for all of us. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] In the section between Coimbra and Penacova and in the section between Foz do Dão and Viseu, those who will be requalified and who will have self-portra profile without tolls, the execution project was contracted in March 2019 and already sent to the Court of Auditors, finding itself under review. I shall conclude by saying that what has been done by this government actually leads us to believe that the work will be a reality, will be implemented and will give dignity to the people, so that they can circulate people and goods safely there. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u487	The last intervention is by Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u488	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by congratulating the petitioners, the Business Association of the Region of Viseu, the Trade Association of the District of Viseu, the Business Association of Mangualde, the Business Association of Lafões, the Intermunicipal Community Viseu Don Lafões and the IP3 users, and to tell them that I am supportive of all because they were once again deceived. [[Laughing from The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Even the legislative initiatives that will be approved will result in nothing. Perhaps, closer to the elections, there is a tent, a ceremony for the launch of the first stone of the work! Is that what you're talking about? [[PS protests.]] Mr Coimbra says that the work is necessary, it is urgent. I only ask: then, because for four years, in which it was urgent and necessary—and you are right when you say that responsibility is for all governments, beyond the Government of the Socialist Party, I grant you this! - It's not done yet? Why isn't the work done? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u489	It's not four years, it's eight years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u490	Do you know why, Your Honor? In terms of investment, given word and honest word, both of the Government and, above all, of the Prime Minister and of management, it is worth zero. To prove what I say, it is enough to look at what is the promise of public investment in the various budgets and what is the effective execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u491	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u492	If I'm saying something wrong, please lie to me. What is planned in the Budget and what is actually on the ground? IP3 is proof that it's true what I'm saying. In 2017, we had EUR 1 million for recovery of works, for recovery of some stems that are falling. The honourable Member now says: "Well, we have a work between Penacova and Lagoa Azul." Yeah, it's not 70 km, it's only 16. It's not 130 million, it's just a little more than 11, 8. Are we talking about the same thing or are we still deluding?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u493	It is the same as "on the side of the road and the road of Beira"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u494	It is the same illusion of this professional demagogy, which is Mr. Prime Minister, when he says that the works in IP3 will cost evolution in careers and salaries. Now, there is no evolution in careers, no maturity, no IP3. But there is still another one responsible: the current candidate for European elections, the all-powerful and illusion-maker Pedro Marques, who said: «Well, the IP3 will be a technological road, with 5G technology! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Pedro Coimbra, if I can get a 2 km piece that is in 5G technology, thank you! Finally, the CDS will say what it has always said: do the work. We have no preference for the plot, for the model, but do the work, because the work is necessary. You know why? Because he saves lives...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u495	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u496	... because it powers two district capitals, because it is important for the economy of the region and because those Portuguese who live between Coimbra and Viseu and who use IP3 are Portuguese equal to all others. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] The CDS does not have to say that it is against Lisbon or against Porto. The work must be done, justified by the economy and essentially by the saving of lives that this means. You just don't do the work, as you don't make so many other investments in the country, because, as the current Minister of Protection says, they have been over-willed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u497	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u498	You don't have technical conditions, you were distracted and you didn't do the job in time and time. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Joel Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u499	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u500	Please, Mr. Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u501	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to be distributed to the branches of the parliamentary groups, in particular to the direction of the CDS Parliamentary Group, the port which was published today in the Journal of the Republic with the funds entered for the start of the work in the section between Penacova and Foz do Dão, with the respective budget appropriations for 2019 and 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u502	All right. The honourable Member will make it to the Bureau and the Bureau will distribute it. Before we move on to point four of the order of business, I give the floor to Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro, who has some announcements to make. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u503	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos. 1210 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Condition the installation of olive and intensive and superintensive almonds, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1211 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the use of aircraft for air spraying and restricts the use of jet spray equipment carried in sensitive areas, housing clusters and public roads ( second amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April 2013 ), which falls to 7. the Commission, with connection to 11. a. The draft resolution No 2150 / XIII / 4 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — By the urgent requalification of the André de Gouveia High School in Évora, which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u504	Thank you very much, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro. We then move to the last point of our order of business, which affects Petition No. 330 / XIII / 2. a ( Liliana Isabel Rodrigues Madeira Grigor and others) — They request that the parental leave be enjoyed up to one year to 100 %. at this moment, the Bureau only registers the registration of Mr José Soeiro's Member of the Left Block, so I ask you to make the other inscriptions. Mr. José Soeiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u505	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming on behalf of the Left Block the more than 20 000 people who propose two measures to this Parliament, the first being the extension of the parental leave to 100 %. in this case, the proposal is that it be extended throughout the first year, enjoyed by the father or mother since there are at least three years of contributions. Today, as you know, this licence is paid to 100 % only in the first four months or 150 days if it is enjoyed by both parents. It is also proposed that the time be reduced to two hours a day until the three years of the child. In addition, this proposal for a two-hour reduction during the first three years of the child has been defended, among others, by the Order of Doctors, which has also brought a petition to this Parliament on this matter. Today, there is indeed great inequality when we talk about licences that exceed 150 days, 180 days' licenses and, above all, the licences that follow these, which are paid to 25 % of the reference remuneration, which, in a country of very low wages, means that a family with normal incomes does not have the possibility to extend the licence for that period. They call upon petitioners and petitioners the importance of breastfeeding—it is a possible argument, I believe that it should not be absolutised—and the importance of creating a bond with children. It is important to remember that in 2016 this Parliament had already discussed a petition with 34 000 signatures so that the 100 % licence would be extended for a period of six months. At the time, the Left Block presented a proposal to precisely extend the 100 % licence for six months, also encouraging sharing, because we believe that this enlargement should go hand in hand with a co-responsibility for care that does not reproduce the sexual division that often exists in this field. At the time, the Bloc proposal was accompanied by the CFP, the NAP and the Greens, but the other parties did not vote in favour of the proposal and it was plunged. Since 2016, we have also supported the idea that the current reduction of two hours a day while the child is being breastfed should be extended either within its scope — i.e. it should not depend on breastfeeding — either in its time, and must be up to three years, as has been proposed by the Medical Order. In May 2016, we directly questioned the Minister of Labour, who, on this proposal in particular, told us that he was willing to debate it, so there was an expectation. However, in the last working group on parenthood, despite the progress we have made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u506	They voted against, say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u507	... in particular in early childhood leave, compulsory parental leave, disability leave, cancer or chronic illness, these two proposals were discussed, voted and plummeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u508	Downstairs by whom? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u509	And it was not because of the position of the Left Block, which supported the proposal that extended the licence to 100 % up to six months...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u510	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u511	... and — I am finished with this, Mr President — also supported the proposal for a reduction of the time, which was actually coming from the CDS, and we have already defended it. However, the PS and PSD have dropped these proposals and therefore they have not been able to make a move. What we have to say is that, for our part, we will continue to defend the extension of these licences and this time reduction, because they are a civilizational conquest to have more time to live and more time to accompany children and daughters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u512	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the more than 21,000 petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Ms.D. Liliana Isabel Rodrigues Madeira Grigor. For its initiative, it is again discussed in this plenary as a matter of greatest importance. This petition basically has two proposals: one so that the parental leave can be extended until the period of one year, the respective subsidy paid to 100 %, and one so that there can be a reduction of the working time up to the 3 years of the child, positions which have also been accompanied by the Medical Order. In the CDS, we have come back to this subject very often. Today, the fall of birth is probably the first national dilemma and to reverse this trend is not only important, it is a design on which not only our continuity as a historical community, but also, and above all, social balance, economic vitality and even financial soundness and the financing of the social state itself. It has been more than 10 years since the CDS presented the Christmas Report—The Portuguese Challenge, a report that had as merit, one of the first political initiatives on the subject, presenting sociological and statistical data, listing existing measures and proposals for new policies. Since then, virtually all parties have turned to this issue and, in our understanding, much of the analysis that is being done today has come to be right to the CDS, either in the priority that has given to this topic either in the approach it has made to it. The fact is that the fact that the issue is more discussed today than before — 10 years ago, almost no one was discussing it — has at the same time a positive aspect and a dangerous and negative aspect. It is positive, because, of course, we are all more sensitive to the importance of this matter, but we understand that it is a risk, since, when we talk a lot about it, it may seem that it is resolved or we may have the illusion that we are solving the problem. However, all data show that evolution is absolutely insufficient, the problem persists and the measures that have been created and debated are clearly insufficient. Anyone who does not see this does not realize the importance of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u514	In CDS time it was good, when parental leave and family allowance were cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u515	For this reason, the CDS made two positive agendas on this matter, in this legislature, in the first of which, in May 2016, we presented about 25 measures, which were plunged all over the left, by management. Among them, we had several proposals: extension of the supplementary parental leave and leave for assistance to grandparents; increase of the father's parental leave for 30 days, exclusive and compulsory, and flexibility of the period of joy — a proposal we have now extended for 60 days; from the birth of the third child, extension of the period of leave in two weeks; prenatal parental leave; parental leave for premature birth;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u516	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u517	... replacement of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding; extension of the initial parental leave to 210 days. I shall conclude by saying that the working group recently met and adopted far more discreet measures than the CDS aimed at. Of course, we follow these proposals, put our proposals down, in general, on the left, once again, in a general way. The CDS accompanies this issue and, of course, we would like to be as ambitious as this request, but we regret that, for example, a proposal to extend the initial parental leave up to 210 days has been dropped in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u518	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u519	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the first subscriber to this petition, as well as all those who have subscribed to it, requesting that the parental leave be enjoyed up to one year, pay 100 %. In fact, the serious demographic problem facing our country, which has as one of its main expressions at low birth, is a serious, worrying problem that must mobilise us all. We also welcome the serious form of the presentation of the object of this petition, without fundamentalism and suggesting concrete measures and solutions. However, they defend the petitioners that the parental leave is increased for one year, recognizing, however, that differentiating steps may continue to exist for those who do not want or cannot opt for a one-year leave, in the same way as what is currently provided for in Portuguese law. In fact, mothers currently have access to 120 days of leave, which becomes 150 days, if shared with their father, and they enjoy at least 30 days of that licence, paid at 100 %. The licence may still reach 180 days — 150 plus 30, therefore six months — if it is shared, and pays 83 %, or 150 days, if it is only enjoyed by the mother, and in this case pays 80 %. In addition to these initial parental leave periods, parents may still opt for extended parental leave, up to three months for each parent, paid 25 % of the reference remuneration. However, in Portugal, which also has one of the best parental leave schemes in Europe, parents may already have access to a one-year parental leave provided they share it with each other. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we remember, we approved, last Friday, several legislative amendments in relation to the protection of parenthood, significantly improving the existing regime. Not only did we increase the father's compulsory parental leave from 15 to 20 working days, as we approved the extension of parental leave periods, in the case of premature babies born up to 33 weeks or babies who are deprived of admission after birth, and we still reduced the guarantee period to have access to the initial parental leave. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the rather encouraging numbers, because positive ones, which tell us that in the first three months of 2019 21 348 babies have already been born, i.e. the highest number of the last seven years, we are all aware that fewer children are being born than those that would be necessary for generational replacement, and on the other hand, the Portuguese population is severely aged. However, it should be clear that birth figures do not improve, nor will they improve, only because of the increase in parental leave. Supporting a child, or more children, goes far beyond the first year of life or the first three years of life. That's why our concern is even with the increase...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u520	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u521	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why, if our concern is even with increasing birth and therefore also with improving the sustainability of the country, we should focus on other essential factors, such as promoting more and better employment, more job safety, better wages, more housing for all, more stability for younger couples and better and effective reconciliation between professional life and family life. This is what the Socialist Party has focused on. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, indeed, it is essential for the well-being and future development of children who spend more time with their parents. However, this should be a reality throughout childhood and not just in the first three years. This is what we have to focus on! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u522	For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u523	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet all the subscribers of this petition. Since now, it is important to note that in 2019, in the middle of the 21st century, the struggle for the fulfilment and respect of the rights of motherhood and paternity, in workplaces, every day, demands the demand and resistance of workers. We are talking about many rights which, in practice, in the 21st century, continue to deny Portuguese workers, in violation of what is enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And this is particularly important, because it reveals how employers and companies look at the rights of maternity and paternity and the exercise of these rights by workers. In Portugal we do not have companies or patronate friends of families, and much less respect the rights of motherhood and paternity; on the contrary, blackmail, pressure, harassment, repression of all workers who exercise their rights of motherhood and paternity persist. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] In fact, there are clear examples of this in large companies such as Pingo Doce, Continente, Grupo Dia, Lidl, in which the exercise of maternity and paternity rights requires the struggle and often the strike and the resistance of workers. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] That said, of course, it is important to strengthen maternity and paternity rights. The truth is that, even recently, the CFP has brought a proposal to guarantee payment to 100 % of the six months of maternity leave, as recommended by the World Health Organization, taking into account the importance of breastfeeding and breastfeeding. Everyone said that this is very important, but when H time came to vote, how did the CDS vote, so family friend? How did the PSD vote, so family friend? How did the PS vote? Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u524	The CFP does not teach in this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u525	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u526	As for the concrete proposal to recognize, in the first months of life, the importance of breastfeeding and the link between mother and baby, which are fundamental, how did these three parties vote? Against! That is why we want to say that it is essential to ensure the strengthening of the father's rights and that it is fundamental to ensure the strengthening of the mother's rights; but the strengthening of the father's rights cannot be done at the expense of the removal of the mother's rights and the strengthening of the grandparents' rights, as the CDS proposes, cannot be done at the expense of the withdrawal of the father's and mother's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u527	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u528	It is that maternity leave and paternity leave are irreplaceable and untransmitted. But this does not mean that measures are not discussed, for example, for the anticipation of the retirement age, for the valorization of long-term careers, allowing grandparents to have time to accompany their grandchildren. One thing is to strengthen the rights of the mother, without prejudice to the rights of the father, another thing is to strengthen the rights of the father, without harming the rights of the mother, and another, still, is to attack the rights of the workers, as has been done successively. On this matter, we have a law today — to which Mrs Carla Tavares referred — which harms single-parent families and families in which her father is unemployed — we have a law today according to which, in single-parent families, the payment of the mother's licence is made to 80%; and we also have an injury to families in which her father is unemployed, because the father cannot invoke the joy of the licence and the mother cannot enjoy it for five months paid to 100%, but for five months paid to 80 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u529	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u530	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member knows that it is true and that we have already denounced him here several times. Therefore, on the side of the CFP, we will continue to defend the strengthening of the rights of motherhood and paternity, but above all, the best interest of the child. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u531	For the last intervention at this point, Mrs Susana Lamas of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u532	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, allow me, on behalf of the PSD, to health the more than 21 000 subscribers to this petition, in particular by thanking the group of mothers who started the movement that gave rise to this petition, either for the example of the exercise of this important right of citizenship, or for bringing to the Assembly of the Republic such a relevant issue as that of parenthood. Mrs. Members, for us, PSD, the issues of family, childhood and birth, the reconciliation between family life and professional life, as well as the health of children have always been, continue and will continue to be fundamental matters and that we do not cease to follow. This has been the case in the past and will be the case in the future. It is worth recalling, for example, the draft resolution presented by this Parliamentary Group in the previous Parliament, which put the 12 parliamentary committees to discuss matters of maternity, paternity, children and families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u533	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u534	It was therefore, following this initiative, after hearing numerous people and entities, and collected the contributions of all, that several changes were made to the legislation then in force, eliminating barriers to facilitating the lives of families and children. But we don't stay there, gentlemen. Members, as you all know, ended last Friday, day 3, an intensive and very important legislative process for families, where a set of amendments to the Labour Code and other legal diplomas on matters of parenthood and support for families were approved, i.e. several legislative amendments extending the rights of parents and mothers, both during pregnancy and in the follow-up of newborns. Of course, we regret that some of our proposals, particularly those relating to prematurity, have not been approved, because they have given greater support to families. However, we do not cease to follow proposals that have been submitted, because for the PSD the most important is the interest and protection of children and families and that barriers to birth are removed. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important that we follow up on the measures that have been introduced. It is important that we continue this debate on parenthood, even because it leads us to a broader issue, the question of demography. More than the specific amendments, we should seek a cross-cutting and integrated approach, seeking a consensus that goes beyond the parliamentary consensus and involves all: social dialogue, civil society, Europe itself, in addition to a common strategy for birth, defended by the candidates of the PSD to the European Parliament. For the sake of birth, for the sake of Portugal, I believe that the matter concerned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u535	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u536	... given its essentiality, it requires everyone to be involved in a serious debate, because it is our collective future that is at stake. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-08.u537	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. First of all, we are going to have an urgent debate called for by BE on the subject of combating precariousness. We shall then, in general, proceed to the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 188 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the law of military infrastructure. Thirdly, Law No 189 / XIII / 4 will generally be considered. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020. Fourth and lastly we will discuss the ERC’s Report of Activities and Accounts — Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, 2017. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 54 minutes.]]
