ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Our agenda has in the first point a PS marking on the theme "to combat misinformation" in the defence of democracy. Before we get on the agenda, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read a long file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Bills Nos 1141 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates a fund to support young associivism abroad, which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 1142 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of the Portuguese Women's Programme, which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 1143 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 1144 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities, lower than 1. the Commission, 1145 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( First Amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1146 / XIII / 4. a ( unregistered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira ) — Extends citizenship rights within the framework of the Citizens'Legislative Initiatives ( Done at the fourth amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 ), which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2006 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( CDP-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2007 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government publish the diploma establishing the legal regime for the prevention of soil contamination and remedy, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2008 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop a mentoring programme for young immigrants in close cooperation with the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ) and the Portuguese consulates, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2009 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a National Forum on Emigration and the Portuguese Communities, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the creation of a programme of incentives for the establishment in Portugal of enterprises created by Portuguese abroad which falls to 2. the Commission, 2011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government support the creation of an emigrant portal and an emigrant return guide, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2012 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of higher education access quota for Portuguese young people abroad, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2013 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government step up control of invasive species in the National Park of Peneda-Gerês, 2014 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions aimed at limiting the use of products containing glyphosate, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2015 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government actively cooperate with entrepreneurship, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2016 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate withdrawal of the fibrosis plates existing at the High School Dr. João Carlos Celestino Gomes, Ílhavo, and schedule and schedule the necessary rehabilitation works, 2017 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of an incentive plan for the establishment in Portugal of members of our diaspora, which falls to 2. the Commission, 2019 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Fajões, in the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, Aveiro district, 2020 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination of studies on populations of wild boars in the national territory and damage caused to farmers and the development of a plan of measures to control populations of this species, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2021 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Takes measures to improve the energy efficiency of public buildings and equipment, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2022 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 2023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an emergency programme for the valuation of museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites, which falls to 12. the Commission. Parliamentary opinions No 122 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the scheme of investment companies and real estate management ( SIGI) and No 123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the number of payable positions of categories of the special career of superior technician in the diagnostic and therapeutic areas and identifies the respective levels of the single pay table. It also defines the rules for the transition of workers integrated in the career of diagnostic and therapeutic technician, provided for in Decree-Law No 564 / 96 of 21 December for the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy". That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u3	Mr Duarte Pacheco, thank you for reading these various initiatives that have entered the Bureau. We moved on to the discussion by the PS on the theme « combating misinformation—in defense of democracy », with the appreciation of the draft resolution No 2018 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the implementation in Portugal of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. To open the debate, Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today brings to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the question of the implementation in Portugal of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. It is a debate on the defence of democracy. This plan is a good example of how the joint action of the Member States enables Member States to obtain at European level added value which would otherwise not be possible. I see a lot of young people in the galleries. It is, of course, a coincidence, but it really does come about, so that Europe's most valuable value can be realized. Disinformation must be understood by us Europeans: verifiable, false or misleading information, created, presented and disseminated for economic gain or intentionally misleading the public and likely to cause public damage, including threats to democratic processes and public goods, such as health, the environment or security. They are not considered misinformation—and this is often forgotten—the errors by warning, satires or parodys, or the news and party comments clearly identified. This means that it is very bad that it is introduced in political language, in relation to political opponents, the idea that they are promoting fake news. [[PSD laughter.]] They are promoting their views, right or wrong, in the same way that there are other opinions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also suggested the experts of the European Union and those of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that we do not use the fakenews expression, first because it is imprecise and, secondly, because it is captured by the President of the United States with his will to whip prestigious media bodies such as the New York Times, the Washington Post or CNN. The challenge we are facing is this: new technologies can be used, in particular through social networks, to spread misinformation on a scale and with speed and precision of unpublished direction or, as proved in the American and Brazilian presidential elections, to blow up the ears of voters lies that fall in their goo or exhaust them from going to the polls, all this just because they did a few likes or comments on a certain day or night. The power of the large platforms is indeed enormous. Every minute there are 38 million WhatsApp messages, 2, 8 million messages in Snapchat, 187 million emails, 4, 3 million videos on Youtube. With the advent of 5G networks, artificial intelligence applications and the massification of small computers we call 'telephones', this potential can be put at the service of the ability of citizens to make well-informed decisions or, instead, to weaken freedom of expression. The debate today is about a draft resolution containing recommendations, not about a bill. It is not our intention to produce any law in which we are well-accompanied by 26 Member States. Only Germany, in 2017, and France, in 2018, have legislated on the subject. in the German case, the huge fines did not have to be applied; in the French case, the fractured diploma took a year to produce and we will only know if it was worth it in May. Portugal does not need to import this fracturing debate. First, because there is no legal vacuum here ; second, because, in due time and in conjunction with other States, it will be transposed, following the Government's proposal for law, Directive ( EU) 2018 / 1808, on the so-called "audiovisual media services", which will update the framework applicable to the television world and regulate digital video sharing platforms, and finally because many of the most important issues that need to be addressed do not require legal push either near or far. in other countries, the media are discussing these issues, there is no reason not to do the same in Portugal, as it is already beginning to happen. A partnership is also being made between the Lusa agency and the EFE agency on fact-finding, which is, or will be, an important anti-information weapon. We have also participated in the European rapid alert network, in which our cyber-ambassador, Ambassador Luís Barreira de Sousa, is seated. We need all that. A few days ago, the DN (News Daily) released the list of our 10 disinformation sites with more followers on Facebook. Done the accounts, add 2,518,700 followers. It's not too much! What is offered to these followers does not resemble the ranks of racism, xenophobia and hatred that flood social networks in other countries. Here, we have screaming titles about extraordinary phenomena that never happened, announcements of miraculous potions that cure everything, tips to eliminate fats, wrinkles and bubbles and even to recover hair. But this is not the case to laugh, it is not actually the case to laugh, because already there have come reputational damage and can come more, and worse. And no one knows who they can touch. In 2017, at the last hour of the French presidential election, rumors were fired on alleged illegal acts by candidate Macron. If they had not had an immediate response, by the same way, they would probably have compromised the results of the elections. As for the leaps of cynicism that, in certain days and nights, we find on the social networks — cynicism in relation to democracy — it would not be a democrat who wanted to prohibit his free public expression, on the social networks or outside them, or try to decree the single thought. Mr. President and Mr. Members: Great plague — large, large, large, large plague — are the texts and videos taken and republished to attract clicks and, with them, advertising incomes, including political advertising. on the internet, the greed lives mine walls with the spirit of solidarity. One of the people responsible for digital pillage practices in Portugal summed up the doctrine that applies: "As we do not produce information and simply publish it, there is no manipulation. Only the least informed can be manipulated. And today, with access to everything and something else on the Internet, only anyone wants to be manipulated». Please note: “Only anyone who wants is manipulated”! It's not like that. This fallacy is a handwashing and an apology of the passage of false information, and cannot be accepted. It is essential to promote the exclusion of advertising models based on clickbait with plataformists and advertising when political issues are involved — and sites for spreading lies affecting political agents —, especially during the electoral period (pre-campaign and campaign). Against all this was developed a code of conduct, signed in October 2018 by Facebook. Thousands of false profiles have already been removed, deleted fraudulent pages, cut advertising returns, but it needs more and better. The means of complaint made available by the platforms are little known and it deserves State support for learning how these means of correction are accessed. in our opinion, the Secure Internet consortium can be an excellent counter to support interaction with digital platforms. In short, it is important that democratic institutions discuss these new challenges. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic asked the Assembly of the Republic to prepare a report to help the action and, on his own initiative, we will also have a large colloquium on 15 April in the Senate Chamber. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to the debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u5	Mr José Magalhães, the Bureau records four entries for clarifications, in particular by the Members. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares, BE, Carlos Abreu Amorim, PSD, Telmo Correia, CDS-PP, and Diana Ferreira, PCP. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u6	Mr President, I will reply to the first two Members. Ladies and gentlemen and then the other two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u7	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Magalhães, first of all, would like to welcome the relevance of the subject brought to debate. Unlike other parliamentary groups that point out Members who deny the existence of organized campaigns of misinformation, we recognize that there is clearly a problem of organised campaigns of misinformation that seek to take political and economic advantage of prejudices, preconceived ideas, against the reality and the good name of many people. It would have been more interesting if the PS had chosen two things. First of all, a more timely marking of this debate, allowing to comply with the rules that the PS has voted for and which it has demanded, but which has clearly failed to mark this debate. Secondly, a demonstration of democracy, which was expected on a subject like this, in which all parliamentary groups also contributed to the debate, not the choice of what happened, which was to reject that any parliamentary group also brought their ideas to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u10	I give you an example of the opposite — in fact, we have already announced it publicly in parliamentary proceedings and I am doing so now in front of all the Members of Parliament and all the Members of Parliament. Members: on the 20th day we will discuss the new digital economy and how we face these giants of the digital economy, which are also part of these misinformation campaigns, which withdraw millionaire profits without paying any taxes in our countries. We have already presented a proposal that is known to all and all and, being a positive agenda of the Left Block, is open to the contribution of all parliamentary groups to bring their ideas and opinions. This is how we make ourselves strong against these giants and not, in an attempt to only put the agenda in front of something that is much more fundamental to democracy, see who has a flag here to put in this debate. from this point of view, it was unfortunate that the PS had set up this choice and it was unfortunate that the PS had given a bad service to a democratic debate that would be strong to deal with those who are attacking democracy on the basis of one of its fundamental pillars: confidence in information. Mr President, I would like to ask you two very direct questions. First, we publicly presented a party code of conduct on social networks, saying that we are against any misinformation campaigns; that we will not use false profiles, in our advertising, of our leaders, or of our activists; that we will not buy followers on social networks; that we will not use images or photographs of people who are then falsely used in election propaganda. Question: Does the PS accompany the Left Block in this public solution you have already presented? in this individual affirmation force of a party before the disinformation campaigns, the PS is available to do what the Left Block did first, before any other party in this country, which was the adoption of a code of conduct for its performance on social networks? The second question is whether the PS considers that it is with draft resolutions that this problem is solved. We look at this draft resolution and we see a huge void, a huge void. We have a proposal to go where it really hurts the giants of the digital economy, those who, as Mr. Deputies said, earn money with this activity, but who are affected in their profits with the Socialist Party's draft resolution. I therefore ask: the PS is available for the 20th day to approve the Left Block proposal in order to do here what the Spanish PS wants to do and what is being done in France and other European countries, which is to tax the giants of the digital economy so that there is no tax evasion in our country and so that we are not always giving to the petition of these giants of the digital economy, who are becoming stronger against our basic principles of democracy. These are the questions I leave you with, and I hope it will be clearer in the answers than the draft resolution that the PS wanted to bring alone the debate this afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u11	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u12	Mr President, Mr José Magalhães, for the PSD this issue is very important. Modern and mature democracies must face face-to-face, preparing themselves with defenses and antidotes that respect and enforce democratic logic. However, the fake news was not born today in Portuguese politics, and the PS knows it too well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u13	Indeed, the PSD even expected the PS to take advantage of this debate to make an appropriate contribution act or, alternatively, at least, a catarization in the sense given to it in ancient Greece. Aristotle said: « Catarism is the purification of souls through an emotional discharge caused by a trauma». Apparently, none of this is going to happen in this debate. Unfortunately, the PS does not recognize the benefits of purification and, instead of the act of contrition or catarism, the PS seems to have opted for a sort of parliamentary cataplana... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u14	...and, above all, without the charm of a Cristina... [[PSD applause.]] ... without depression for Mr. José Magalhães, of course—in which everything is mixed up, confused and, above all, very well cooked so that no one can remember the origins of the cook and his assistants. For there are previous questions to be answered, if we want the debate to be serious and to take it seriously. Saturday magazine—we are not talking about a dark site or a fake news central site, we are talking about a media agency with an editorial direction and journalists who take and sign what they write—the magazine Saturday said, through documents obtained in the « Operation Marquês», through a criminal investigation, that accuses the former Prime Minister Socrates of the existence of a blog, the Corporate Chamber, which was paid by the « friend » Santos Silva, an anonymous blog because all the texts were signed by such Abrantes who, among other unrecommenable activities, made the release of fake news. And it also says the same magazine that members of the government then, and also of the current, collaborated in this authentic fake news agency,... [[PS protests.]] ... in particular the then Secretary of State of José Socrates, Pedro Marques, then Minister of Antonio Costa and now candidate the European Member and perhaps the European Commissioner! [[PSD applause.]] Repeat : it's the magazine Saturday, it's not a fake news site! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, if we want to be serious and if we want to be taken seriously in this important debate, explain to the Portuguese: the news from the magazine Saturday, based on documents of criminal investigation, is it true or not? Is the PS willing to take up this past and show the competent public repentance or, at least, is the PS available to unravel here a slight catharse? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u15	To reply, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u16	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, this resolution is all less innocent and without consequences, because it is written on the Action Plan approved by the European Union and which is currently being linked between the Member States to its implementation, and this will mean, for example, in the Council that will take place in March, a balance sheet of what has been achieved. We have, for example, created the early warning network and we have a cyber ambassador on that network... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and we have ongoing work for the translation of the text, for easier disclosure. They're very concrete things. however, we have a very interesting meeting point, but it is under the drawer. Let's take it off: our two sides agree on how no new law is necessary. We do not need new laws in this area, we have laws that are sufficient to deal with social networks and any attacks that occur in them and we have electoral laws that allow to eliminate any foci of violation of the law. So, in this respect, we agree and I think that is a very important point. Ask if we follow the Left Block in the idea of publishing a kind of code of conduct. I must say that we have many doubts about this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u17	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u18	...because, precisely, one thing that the Action Plan says, when defining what are acts of misinformation, is that they do not concern relations between the parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u19	But they also include!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u20	No, no! It is not « also include », expressly excludes clearly identified party comments. So, I don't imagine the Left Block making unidentified comments or sordid advertising, bought and placed by inbox. Actually, I can't imagine!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u21	Not us, but there are others!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u22	They don't have to say they're honest. You don't have to, no one would expect from you fake news presented in this way. So we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u23	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u24	Now I will scandalise Mr. Abreu Amorim. Mr Abreu Amorim cannot decide because, on the one hand, he says that the issue is very important and, on the other hand, he says that it is not important, because we do not propose anything, we have no idea, we do not know the truth. Look, ask your colleague of the European Parliament what he is doing at this time and you will see that he is doing a colloquium on fakenews.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u25	Which colleague?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u26	Dr. Paulo Rangel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u27	And it does very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u28	That's very good. I'm sorry I'm not watching. Let me go to the main question, which is this: the honourable Member speaks of catarism as the purification of souls, but as much as I remember, there are souls without amendment! They are truly lost, they have no salvation possible. I'm afraid that's your case! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Do you know the action plan approved by the European Commission and endorsed by the European Council? Have you ever done the job of reading it? Mr President, instead of asking questions about the plan, he asked questions about a violation of the secret of justice and he certainly does not want me to make a statement on this matter. Or do you want to? [[PSD protests.]] Don't get us on that ground! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u29	Mr President, two more speakers for requests for clarification have been registered. The first is Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP parliamentary group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u30	Mr President, Mr José Magalhães, I would like to say to you first of all that, from our point of view, the subject is relevant and serious. I would even say more — and I will not, at least, be the first to say it in this House: the issue is so relevant and so serious that in our view it would not justify any competition, nor any 100 meters race to see if any party, alone, comes forward or if any Member wins the title of being the first to raise that same issue here. The subject is too serious for that. from this point of view, the Socialist Party could have approached it in another way, without restricting the discussion to the Socialist Party, Mr. José Magalhães. Because that's what happened. The debate, including in the first distribution we received, began by being proposed without initiatives; then the Socialist Party decided to propose an initiative; and then the Socialist Party prevented other parties from proposing their own initiatives. [[I'm looking good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u31	That is regrettable, Mr Commissioner, because this is a serious issue, it is a broad theme, it is a theme for discussion among all, it is a theme for sharing among all! I must therefore start by asking you if you think it is right to restrict the discussion to the Socialist Party — I hope you do not think so — and tell you that otherwise this debate will not be a fake debate, but it will probably be small news, because it will not allow a broad and comprehensive discussion, as we all would like. Secondly, Mr President, the most important thing is to know what we are talking about and to separate the waters. This is not exactly the same subject, but when you say that there are some who may be responsible and others who may not be responsible, I would say that we must distinguish at European level — I have accompanied several debates on this subject, such as the debate that took place in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe — which are the regimes and the parties who, in certain circumstances, seek to benefit from these populist manoeuvres and from access to such records. I give you an example: my party this week understood that it should not be part of the European family to which we belong the party that rules in Hungary. I ask you whether the Socialist Party follows this idea, particularly as regards what is happening in Malta, Romania or in other countries where abuses of freedom of expression and human rights abuses are serious and serious facts, in the foreground and in the larger plane. It is necessary to separate these waters because, on the other hand, Mr President, we are talking about a reality — I agree with some of the opinions not necessarily coming from my political spectrum — which is not exactly a novelty. That is, the fake news are no more than the modern version of the rumors, the rumors that have been in all the great tragic events of history, have resulted in progress, as will be the opinion of many people in this Chamber, such as the French Revolution, or have resulted in tragedies, such as the Second World War, and, in particular, the persecution of the Jews, promoted it, from the beginning, by fake news, by rumors launched precisely against the Jewish people. That's what we're talking about. The rumors have always existed, the rumors will always exist, the grave thing is that, today, with the propagation mechanism that is the social networks and with a certain credibility that they give them, the rumors assume a gravity that they had never had before. That is the problem, and it is with that problem that we obviously have to deal with. If I may have a note, the honourable Member separates the action of politicians and parties from what are the fake news. I agree with you. I am not going to look for the example that has already been presented here, because if it were to be taken in the case of Dr. Pedro Marques, I would not take it in its history, but in its recent statement on Portugal's leadership in the European funds, news that is not true, but that does not come into this concept of fake news. It's something else we're talking about. Then we had to go to every political statement and candidate Pedro Marques is obviously an obvious, recent and important client of the Polygraph. But that is another matter and another matter, and I can accept what you say. So what are we talking about and where is the concern, Mr. José Magalhães? The essential concern is not in the innuendo, it is not in the declarations of politicians; it is mainly in the existence of such information centres, which seek to launch fake news, act on elections, and out there. Finally, I leave you two very specific questions. Recently, on 6 November, Minister Lavrov met with the Spanish Government in Spain. at this meeting, he will have discussed set of actions in relation to combating misinformation on the various platforms and a collaboration between Russia and the Spanish Government in this same matter. That is what was announced, the Spanish press gave the news, Minister Borrell confirmed it, and that is why it was at stake. Knowing that, normally, the accusation comes from there—I am not making a statement, but it would be in Russia that many of these information agencies would be centred on; and you gave, still recently, the example of the US elections—and knowing that 15 days later, there was a meeting with the Portuguese Government, I wonder whether or not there would have been a similar agreement with the Portuguese Government, since Minister Lavrov himself, on the way out, said that Portugal and Russia would operate in several areas, particularly in the area of the Internet and in that kind of domain. It is not irrelevant, sir. It's not irrelevant and it's very important. The CDS asked the Government and we have not had an answer to this matter so far. My second question concerns the fact that the whole set of ideas which you can put to the limit are seen as criticism of the government. In fact, these ideas are the result of European principles on this subject which the Government is supposed to follow — all of them. Therefore, they may even be seen as criticism of their part to the government by inaction, but we agree that they have to be presented, we have no problem with that. Of course, the countries that have most dealt with this matter have done so with another approach. In particular, look at the German example, which has gone a long way through the debate, for example, within the European Council, which is a serious, severe sanctions regime against misinformation, in particular by reaching the platforms, reaching the broadcasters. I ask you, Mr President, whether or not you think that this path should also be taken — France also seems to want to follow this path; it is a legitimate concern — or if it is in any way enough to propose this action, whether it is in relation to algorithms, whether it is in relation to cyber protection, whether it is in relation to clarification and media literature, so to speak. That is what I ask you, Mr President, by recognizing that the issue is important, but also by admitting that we will not make much progress with this resolution alone. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u32	For a request for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the marked debate and on the subject that brought the debate. On this matter, it is important to begin by saying that the dissemination of information or false content, the manipulation of information that exists is not a new reality, it is not a recent reality, it is old realities that persist today and that take a different highlight, also from the means that are used for its dissemination, especially on social networks, as we have talked about so much here. This is, of course, a reality that we believe must be examined, which deserves our attention and, of course, concern. But the discussion on misinformation, on false information, on the dissemination and promotion of false content cannot be summed up on the issue of social networks. And if it is true that, with social networks or digital applications, there is a new dimension in the dissemination of false content and there is even greater speed in this same disclosure, it is also true that in social communication this is a reality that also exists and that does not arise by chance. Today, we have the concentration in a handful of economic groups of media media agencies, media platforms, different forms of production and content dissemination. Today, the power of information is overwhelmingly in the hands of economic groups that use the economic power they have and the means of which they own to produce the content that they are most interested in or to disseminate the information that best serves their interests. And right now, in this debate, one of the fundamental issues that we believe should be put is that of the one who serves the manipulation of the information and the false information that is disseminated. This is one of the questions we leave to the PS: who earns all this? Let us recall, as an example, the consequences of the false information on the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, information that later confirmed to be a lie, but that at the time the dominant social communication reproduced, acryptically, all that the U.S. administration has said. Lies that were fabricated, which resulted in a war, which resulted in the invasion and destruction of a country, with dark consequences for its people. These are questions that should make us think. What does the PS think about the mercantilization of the news? On the fact that the good news is now being considered as the news that sells, the news that can even guarantee the sensationalism necessary to ensure the hearings, because the hearings will then also be decisive for the sale of advertising and also through this means for obtaining revenue and income? What does the PS also think about the working conditions in which the production of the news is done, with media professionals subject to situations of great precariousness and low wages and working rights? How is the rigor, confirmation of the news guaranteed, the consultation of the different actors of a particular event, when the professionals in this sector have failed or no working conditions that allow them to do all this? Let's do it, ladies. Members, the discussion on social networks, about the contribution to misinformation, to the dissemination of false information, about the need for education for media literacy and for digital literacy. Let us have this discussion, we agree with it, but let us also talk about the fundamental issues that need to be put here: the responsibility of social communication, the fact that the owners of the media may be the same as those who may be interested in manipulating and falsifying information and that there is also the political courage to deal with them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u34	You have the floor to answer, Mr. José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, this draft resolution has already had a number of effects, but one of the positive effects is the result of its intervention, in which it not only refers to the need to separate waters, as it separates them, giving an example, indeed very interesting, in which it is not accompanied by its colleagues in the PSD, but in which it is alone, and as it is democratically acceptable. So we're already separating water. We're not closing anyone's door. The fact that we have tabled this resolution does not mean that others do not present documents on the same subject or on side items that can be assessed at this headquarters or within the Commission and that we do not hear about them competent entities. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic asked the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) for a report. When he comes, we'll have the opportunity to discuss. We will also have the colloquium on April 15, in the Senate Hall. That is certainly where we will have different views on this matter. So, in this matter, nobody grabs the ball to take her home. on the contrary, we encourage that the action plan be read openly and that we observe, with the government, how it is being executed. It is that there are issues, such as that of media literature, that are not resolved overnight. We will have an opportunity to talk about this. There are others that can be adopted immediately. And we already have our ambassador for cybersecurity responsible for the rapid alert system, among other gender issues. Therefore, nothing will take away from us, finally, the honorable gesture that was to debate this topic for the first time in the Assembly of the Republic, under a legislative right, but we sincerely hope that there will be more and more topics and initiatives to be discussed. Mrs Diana Ferreira asks questions which I think are quite relevant, but which give me an obstacle to bitterness. Having fought the battles of the Journalists' Denotological Code, of the Press Law, which was an objective before 25 April and after 25 April and where all the good rules are to ensure that there are no news orders, no carpets disguised with news, no dark and indefensible, I thought that, when I reached my age, I would not yet have to fight for it. But there is no alternative, because symbiosis between social networks and traditional media is underway and generates, in fact, another very dangerous thing, which is the creation of bubbles, where people are indifferent to the opinion of others, receiving information. I have no doubt that when President Trump's campaign stated that Pope Francis had just supported the Trump candidate, many millions of Americans have found this to be completely plausible. They would have thought, "Well, of course, why not? We are Catholics, he is also Catholic, certainly supported». And yet it was a lie. And the difference between lies and truth, in the post-truth era, is one of the great battles of civilization. So we need more strength in this matter and the union of forces for that. Who works with the inverted? Find the woman! — it is necessary always to ask who benefits from the reverse. Man or woman, who earns with the truth leads us directly to the door where is the hidden hand that seeks to manipulate. This battle is achieved, for example, by fact-checkers and transparency networks, which we must favour in democratic power bodies. So I have great hope that they will bring us both the ERC and the personalities that we will invite to the colloquium of the day 15, more ideas, more suggestions. I don't think anyone's gonna bring us the idea of making a law to the French. The French law is an absolute mystery in its application, and only in May will we know if it has any effect, no effect or negative effect. We don't need her. It's our understanding that we don't need her. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by the questions asked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u36	Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The news produced is timeless. Therefore, discussing them at any time is always discussing them at the right time. What's ironic is that the right time comes through the wrong party's hand. The PS and the government are an accredited and registered fake news factory or, better, fake good news. It is not me, or I am not alone, to say it; it is a former socialist militiaman, Henrique Neto, who knows the corners of the house and who claims that the PS has the largest network of misinformation and lies in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u39	It is therefore interesting to hear a party that talks about itself, with deep knowledge of what it says, with the chair accumulated and duly tested in the matter. But, we know, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS may be full of experience, but there is a lack of decency and political decency in this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u40	It may even be full of today, but it lacks morality. [[PSD applause.]] He says who knows that, normally, who talks about false news is who produces false news. [[PS protests.]] So when you schedule this topic, they remind me — and don't take the metaphor wrong — that obese man who only consumes fat, who eats a lot fast food and leaves home, goes to the neighbor's house and tells him to eat only vegetables and fit food — you are acting like that — or like that fireman who hates a fire and then dresses up the fireman's suit and he's going to look like he wants to put out the fire. The PS and the government in this area are very bad specimens with regard to faithful, transparent and true information. Seriously speaking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without half-truths or crafts, because Carnival was yesterday,... [[PS protests.]] ... put your hand there in consciousness and see if your action is home with your speech. Is it or not a fake news that the government passes the message that it has accepted to resume negotiations with the teachers, transmitting the false idea that it is available to reach agreement, and that then, when they climb the elevator and get there, tell them that they have nothing to offer beyond what they have already offered? Is it not a trick that in the last year the government and the PS have propagated to the seven winds that have solved the New Bank problem and that they are now confronting taxpayers with the need to put more EUR 1143 million there? Is it or not a fancy falsehood the news, repeatedly without account, that it has never invested so much in the National Health Service when the truth is that hospitals have reached a degree where they have never been found before? Is it not a mistake that the government and the PS have announced the decrease in the ISP of fuels, that it used to be for petrol and gasoline, that it then became only for gasoline and that it then became for one thing or another, because they decided to launch a new carbon rate, which kept the fuels increasingly expensive and the Portuguese have to make more miles with less money? Is it not an illusion that you raised your voice to propagate the decline in the cost of electricity, creating, with this, the expectation that everyone would pay less, and that after that, you have been correcting, saying that it was not for electricity, it was only for the counters, and then that it was no longer for all the counters, it was only for some counters, those of the least power, that almost 99% of the Portuguese do not have? And is it or is it not a trail — excuse the expression — that, in the face of the outbreak of the victims of domestic violence, the Prime Minister, pressured by his inaction, announces that he will endeavour to apply protection measures to the victims in 72 hours and to the aggressor coercion measures, when some and others already exist in the law since 2015? And is it or is it not a political juggling that the PS and the government have announced that they paid the last instalment of the debt to the IMF when they did not relieve the public record by having done so with the contraction of another loan? Is it or is it not fantastic that the end of the higher education tips, which was first, then became only here at 10 years and that now it is no longer well known whether it is and when it will be? Finally, in order not to waste more time on examples, it is or is not a false narrative that the Government, through the providencial ex-Minister of Planning and Infrastructure — today promoted, within the home and the socialist family, the list of European elections, a true architect of the waste of European funds and the anonymous writer of a blog already spoken today — comes, to three months of elections, without dialogue with almost anyone, and just looking at the strength of the metropolitan areas, announcing large-scale investments, from about 22 million euros to 10 years, when in the last 5 years, the country has only managed to spend 1, 5 million euros, also by the Government of the Socialist Party, placing public investment in the 1970 standards? Mrs. Members, for the PS and for the Government, the aims — read 'to win elections' — justify the means — read 'to tell false stories'. But remember that these propaganda mechanisms and processes only open the door to a weakening of democracy and a human disaster which, still today, is hostage to dictatorships that have been declared and reached power at the expense of fake news. Political fake does not facilitate democratic coexistence; polarity, fracture, divide, creates a discourse of hatred and emotion and creates the manichist vision that, on the one hand, are the good ones and, on the other hand, are the bad ones. The PSD doesn't want to be on either side, it doesn't have that moral superiority. The PSD wants to be where it has always been, with quiet consciousness, with the consciousness of those who do not « sell cat by hare». When he was in the government before, faced with difficulties and sacrifices, he always spoke with truth, even losing votes. He had this brand image and he keeps fighting for it. in the opposition, do not climb walls to shout freely against who is in power, only «because yes» or just to make the headline of the next day. in this matter of false news, the PSD will do everything to combat them, either through strengthening the protection of the personal data of citizens, or through training mechanisms of the police authorities to confront cybercrime. If the PS wants to join us on this mission, it will first have to do the act of contrition that has already been spoken here and perhaps return to school to learn to be in life without falling into the stubborn temptation to deviate from codes of conduct that should be inviolable. The feeling we have, sirs. Members, it is that the PS now lives in such confusion that it no longer knows how to distinguish what is true and must be highlighted what is false and must be rejected. This was the case in the time of the PS of José Socrates and the results were the ones that were seen. This PS is a successor to the previous one, so to end it is necessary to ask him for a favor: do not subject the country to having to return to this sad and painful past. Now give the example—they have this opportunity—they have never been able to give before. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u41	Two honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, to whom Mr Peixoto, according to the Bureau, will respond together. To request clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u42	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I do not know if you would like to congratulate him, because I think he has endeavoured not to address, at any time, any of the issues under discussion. But if that was the goal, congratulations! In fact, it is not enough to use the word 'ciber' and speak in cybercrime or in the protection of personal data and to think that it is addressing the subject under discussion, which is the subject of fakenews and which has to do with manipulation of information and intentional manipulation by those who want to manipulate the functioning of democracy. This is the subject that is under discussion. As has been well said in previous speeches, whether by Mr José Magalhães or by Mr Telmo Correia, it is necessary to differentiate what is the political debate, the difference of opinion, the difference of perception about facts, what is the will expressed by those who organize themselves to pass on the perception that it is a media organ and, through this means, to transmit false information. And this is particularly important. And the PSD said: « This issue is particularly important». Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said this in his speech a little while ago, and he said it now to make the worst possible show in terms of demonstrating what should be a serious political debate on a fundamental issue for the stability of democracies in Europe and Portugal, not limiting itself to anything other than Chicana, the attack on the Socialist Party and the attack on the functioning of the institutions, which have nothing to do with the subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is from those moments when we feel that we could all clearly be pulling to the same side, because all Democrats are interested in the clear perception on the part of the citizens of what is information, but instead of participating in this debate constructively, the option is to turn this into a discussion fair of subjects that do not have to do with the subject. Today, at the time of Europe's crossing, the issue is in fact about the debate about what is the galloping growth of populism. The galloping growth of populism effectively resorts to the idea of false news with the aim of building everything that is fed: the simplification of themes that are complex, quite well demonstrated by what Mr. Deputy has done recently in the rostrum; the reduction of the themes that are not the subjects that are under discussion but, rather, what can trigger emotion, irrationality, the impulse among the citizens, rather than a serious, serene debate on the themes that are effectively on the table; the invitation to victimization and to the protest as food of the forces that are opposed to democracy, once again in the wake of what must be a well-constructed debate; and — on the limit — something that was not patented in his intervention but that populism also feeds itself — to the idea that would be contrary to the elites. The elites would be something necessarily negative and this idea that the information is given directly to the citizen, who now has no obstacle to the provision of information, is particularly harmful.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u44	And we don't have to talk about political activity. Something that today most afflicts citizens all over the world is the growth of movements such as that which opposes vaccination and which places on the dissemination of information that associates vaccination with autism, producing a devastating effect on what public health policies are.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u45	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u46	This is what we are discussing about the fake news: it is the manipulation, through foreign states, of electoral results in other countries; it is the use of instruments that should be protected, such as the gateway to the sacred temple of democracy, and that you break down in this intervention, as if it were not important, and that should ultimately be the subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At a time when, in Europe and elsewhere in the world, we are witnessing the phenomena of populist cooperation of those who want to associate, at various locations, to destroy the roots of democracy — a very fragile tree and today in danger at various points in Europe — what we must do is look at the examples, the proposals, what we have on the table, see whether we agree or not and bring more to the debate. We have here a proposal resulting from a European context, in which this debate has been held, but we know that there is much more that can be done. The Left Block referred to the very self-linkages which parties can adopt in their behaviour, which together we can link to not doing, so that citizens can very clearly distinguish what is serious and what is manipulative. These are the data that should be on the table, but unfortunately that is not what we withdrew from its intervention. Nevertheless, the question that I leave is this: is the PSD available to participate seriously in this debate, to contribute to proposals on this subject? It is not to know whether in the past there have been those who have had a different opinion from yours or from ours or whether we interpret the facts differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u47	Ah! That doesn't matter anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u48	In conclusion, what is important to know and what is fundamental is the idea that we all have the right to opinion, we do not have the right to our own facts. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u49	The idea of the fake news, the facts themselves and the creation of alternative realities is what is undermining democracy on this side of the Atlantic, on the other side of the Atlantic and in many places on the planet. This is what we hope you may have another reaction and another response from the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u50	The second request for clarification is from the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Carlos Peixoto of the PSD, repeated several times in his speech that the discussion of fake news and misinformation are an important issue. We agree, even though the Socialist Party's agenda seems to have been made a bit on the knee. Regardless of that, the truth is that the subject is important. But it is also true that the way in which you put the question here has completely confused the whole debate. Tomorrow we will have a 15-year debate, important to examine the work of the Government on all the promises it has fulfilled and on all the promises it has not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u52	This is not a promise!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u53	The different thing is to discuss how citizens receive information about how the government, or any other body, performs its duties. So summarizing the debate suffers from misinformation and fake news and relates it to how the government does or does not fulfill its promises is not at all the debate that is being made here. That is running away from the question and my question is precisely this: what is the reason why the PSD wants to run away from the real conversation of the fake news? Do you just want to take a look at the government's work on a disinformation agenda, which is an offshore problem? Oh, my God! Is that exactly what you want to do, or do you want to summarize the important space we have here today to discuss mechanisms to fight fake news? Oh, my God! We're not just talking about the government's work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u54	We are too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u55	... from the point of view of what does good, from what does bad, from what does good, or from what doesn't. We are discussing whether the home of people and newspapers, the press, how the government, or any other organization, does this work and how it communicates with citizens. That is the debate here. I do not want to believe that the position of the honourable Member and of the rest of his bench is precisely the position of his banker who says that fake news and populism are bullshit from Brussels. Is that exactly the position the PSD decided to take here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u56	That's not what I said, because no! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u57	Are the fake news bullshit from Brussels or are they really something to take into account, so that all parties here have a real code of conduct and a commitment to what is a responsibility to defend the democratic regime? Oh, my God! Or are we going to want to lower the debate and make it a 15-year debate that, in fact, is it not? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u58	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u59	Mr President, Mr Delgado Alves, I would like to tell you that, in my view, there is no better way of translating a reality and of leading to public perception as correctly as possible than by concrete examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u61	What we tried to do was move from theory to practice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u62	It's a great theory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u63	...it was trying to show you that fake news come from the very beginning and have a lot of origin in your home. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u64	Assumam!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u65	If you cannot, in your home, pass on true, free and transparent information, you cannot, I repeat, be angry that here, the PSD or any other party denounces the completely manipulated form as the Government has announced its measures and its policy. This is also a fact news and does not contribute to any improvement in democracy. Mr President, I have not seen anyone, so far and despite the questions, answer that question asked by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim. Is it or is it not true what the magazine says on Saturday? Is it or is it not true that there were former members of the Socialist Government who wrote in a vicious manner, with privileged information, in a blog, just to call people and only to create facts that are false? Oh, my God! The honourable Member is speaking in populism. Do you know where he lives, or where he died yesterday?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u66	in your European political family!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u67	I will tell you: in the « home» of Cristina Ferreira! [[Rice from PSD Member Rubina Berardo.]] Yesterday, populism was in Cristina Ferreira's «house», with the Prime Minister making a cataplana!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u68	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u69	This brings populism to the country! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr. Luís Monteiro came here as becoming the National Medical Emergency Institute of the Socialist Party! [[Rice from PSD Member Rubina Berardo.]] He came to help the Socialist Party! Mr President, we know very well what to do with this debate. PSD knows very well how to fight fake news. PSD wants to fight fake news. I said how! The debate is not over yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u70	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u71	The PSD will still talk again, but I want to tell you that we are in favour of the protection of personal data, we are in favour of proper intervention and awareness of digital giants and we are in favour of strengthening police training in order to deal with this phenomenon. We know this, but it does not remove the source, the source, from this issue. And the origin of this issue is in the manipulation which, of course, the Socialist Party has made, in a way that we consider serious, of the information it transmits to the Portuguese. That's all I wanted to demonstrate. But don't worry, Mr, because we will explain to the country and to the Portuguese that we are on the side of those who want to fight this tragedy. It is that there are many of us who have already been victims of it, in the future many will have to be and we do not know what doors these questions are going to hit. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u72	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make three references to this debate. First of all, as a previous matter, I wanted to say that we associate ourselves with the criticism that has already been made to the Socialist Party about the circumstances surrounding this agenda, inasmuch as, indeed, it is not worth spending much time on defining rules when, after that, they are not respected by those who, in this case, have even come to propose them. We therefore hope that there will be no precedent for this procedure and that the rules taken are effectively respected. With regard to the question raised here, the subject is undoubtedly relevant. It is a very relevant subject because we are all aware of historical examples in which misinformation has had catastrophic consequences, and we must draw attention to the fact that if the so-called fake news, the false news, today have an unprecedented proliferation through social networks, they are far from being a novelty, as we all know. We all remember, as my comrade Diana Ferreira mentioned here, all the misinformation surrounding the Iraq War, but I would say more: all the misinformation surrounding the Balkan War, all the misinformation that has been surrounding the aggression against Syria, all the misinformation surrounding the situation in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u74	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u75	And this misinformation is far from limited to social networks, on the contrary, it is a daily misinformation transmitted through the broad media, through dominant social communication, which simply repeats what political and media power wants to repeat. They are also fake news and also have a huge gravity. The question of social networks is relatively new and, in fact, concerns. Concerns arise because what are crimes enshrined in the Criminal Code, such as defamation or injury, and which are aggravated when committed through social communication, are impunity when committed through social networks, given its gigantic proliferation. This is a new problem for which there was no adequate response. Obviously, freedom of expression must be safeguarded, but forms of protection of the right name of persons or entities must be found. This is an issue that deserves a deep debate, a serious debate, and for which there has not been a suitable antidote so far. The third question I would like to mention, Mr President, has to do with the project which the Socialist Party brings to us and which is wrong to refer to the European Plan of Action against Disinformation. This is because if we try to find out exactly what this plan contains — and it is not easy to find a Portuguese version in the documentation issued by the various European institutions, so we have to help ourselves with the English version, which is possible to have access to — we must conclude that this European Union action plan is not against misinformation. It is a disinformation action plan for the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), because it adopts a joint position on the threats that the European Union calls for misinformation for the defended values and for the external action of the European Union and NATO. Now, it goes very wrong there, because, indeed, this action plan assumes an enemy, the Russian devil, that is, Russia's influence in American elections, Russia's influence in Brexit, Russia's influence in what's about to come. In all elections by 2020 there is a spectrum, which is the Russian threat. It seems to us that this is, in spite of having no elements on Russian capacity in this area, at least a reduction in vision, especially when we see a Mr. Steve Bannon who is going through the world saying that he is the great mentor of the President of the United States on social networks, the great mentor of the operation that led Bolsonaro to power, in Brazil, and the great mentor of the extreme right in Spain, boasting that, thanks to him and his great ability to create and disseminate fake news, the extreme right will have great success in Spain. This is extremely worrying. And there the European Union, for Steve Bannon, stands on the same side of the barricade because it is supposed to defend the same values that the European Union wants to protect. That is why this is not a good plan of action, because it does not really equal the need to defend democratic values, on the contrary. The idea is that the European Union wants to reserve for itself the official lie and criticize everything that might challenge the idea that the European project is a 'wonderful project', pointed out to humanity. It would be good if there were a concern in the European Union about the spread of falsehoods through social communication, but unfortunately this action plan is not what we see. in the action plan, what we see is an attempt to impose an official version and label everything that contradicts it, which is very different from the concern that should bring us to this debate. Therefore, we want to feel that this PS initiative is not a good contribution to an issue that would be very important to be seriously discussed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u76	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. You don't have time to answer, but I still give the floor to Mrs Margarida Marques if you like. One thing I can give as guaranteed: you won't have a fakeanswer, because you won't have any answers. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the intervention Mr António Filipe has just done has two aspects which I think are interesting to point out: a first aspect has to do with existing legislation, with the capacity and resistance of existing legislation to deal with a set of realities, particularly in the field of the press, in particular in those which may be considered crime. This legislation effectively exists and we are not proposing new legislation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u78	We have scheduled this debate, and it is important that it be done, for the second aspect of the question raised by Mr António Filipe. Mr. Carlos Coelho, in November 2018, said the following : « We are not naive and we know that there are many external forces—political, state, economic and military—that they want to condition the electoral process, either through fake news, the use of large amounts of data for electoral manipulation or through funding to extremist parties who want to destroy the European project ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u80	I have expressly read this statement by Mr Coelhos to remind the Members. Members of the PSD who are here that the question is effectively raised: in the defence of European democracy. I repeat, in the defence of European democracy because we all realize that European democracies are being threatened and are being threatened by forces of this kind. This issue is all the more important as there will be European elections within three months and that is why there is this contingency plan on the part of the European Union, which has been requested by the European Council to the European Commission and is based on a set of pillars which have as their primary objective the defence of European democracies. Mr. Deputy remembered Bannon. Bannon does not command the whole world but at least at this moment is concentrated in Europe. We all know that he is focused on Europe, working in Europe and working for European elections. The question I would like to put to the honourable Member — which now has no time to answer, but perhaps there is time to answer later in the course of this debate — is whether he really understands, firstly, that it is necessary to defend European democracies and, secondly, whether each Member State can only fight what is a systematic attack on European democracies. In other words, does it consider a national action plan or contingency plan more effective at European level?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u82	It is very important that the European institutions have sought, within the framework of their legislative capacity, which is limited in this regard, to achieve the commitment to the different platforms so that they can be associated — Facebook, Twitter, etc. — in order to be able to identify fake news, true fake news, i.e., news that may harm and that may redirect the whole process of preparing for European elections, jeopardising European democracies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u83	I give the floor to Mr Luís Monteiro of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on misinformation is not a new debate, it is not a single national debate nor a single European debate. This requires that the analysis and the ability to discuss the problem also in this House, in the Assembly of the Republic, compels us to open borders with other actors, with other bodies and with another capacity for analysis. It is wrong to take a debate on the fake news with a merely conjuncural position on whether this is this or whether it is that government that today takes the condition of ruling the country. And it is precisely because the debate on fakenews cannot be taken lightly, which, if all parliamentary groups today in the Assembly of the Republic, took on the role of attacking the government or opposition for creating fake news in relation to what is or should be the conduct of the government and the country, then we would be discussing the situation of the country but we would not be discussing the disinformation and the fake news. In fact, let's go back, for example, to 2011. In 2011, in a full election campaign for the legislators, then candidate Pedro Passos Coelho swore on foot together not to cut the 13. neither 14. the month.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u85	It was before! It was April!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u86	Repeat, he swore to foot together not to cut the 13th. neither 14. the month. What did you do, failed to reach the government? He cut the 13th. o and 14. the month! Are we in front of a fake news? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! We're in front of a ruler who lied to the country, but we're not in front of a fake news situation. That's the PSD problem,... [[PSD protests.]] ...is that he does not know nor can he make the difference between the scrutiny of government action and the highly organized misinformation, with international agencies, that have grown the public perception about the truth. Even because, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone realized that then candidate Pedro Passos Coelho lied to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u87	You didn't lie! There was the memo in the middle! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u88	There's no doubt about it! As there is no doubt that he lied to the country about the 13th. o and 14. the month, we're not in front of fake news, we're in front of a candidate who lied to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u89	This serves to defend the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u90	But today's debate is not about what Mr. Miguel Morgado is saying in the last row, which are "debts from Brussels". It is a debate about what we are concerned about and we are concerned about because it provokes election results, as it may have happened in the United States and Brazil, and it may eventually provoke election results already in the next European elections and in the legislative elections themselves. But, on this matter, the PSD, mainly, has nothing to say on the subject. However, the Left Block has. We have recently presented the possibility of the existence of a code of conduct, where all political parties assume a capacity to fight the fake news and a position to have no minimum margin for this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u91	Ah! That solves everything! It's all said...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u92	We have also introduced a bill that enables the traditional, national and local press, and ensures that the digital press and the digital media have an obligation to pay, by tax, to train the truth of information. Are these the only alternatives that exist? Don't! But it is a very important step to ensure the truth in information, to ensure the defence of the democratic regime, and here will be the Left Block to do this debate today and in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u93	Since Mr Luís Monteiro does not make any request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Disinformation, propaganda and manipulation are not on the whole a new phenomenon, on the contrary. It was in his name that, in the 20th century, with a crowd of seduced and manipulated people, they committed the most heinous crimes of which there is memory, about which today, in this Chamber, has been spoken. We must therefore, in history, combat this old phenomenon, now transformed by faster, more comprehensive and increasingly polarized mechanisms of propagation. The admirable new world of the Internet and social networks is just that: admirable. A whole new and open world, where we all communicate with everyone and where we all know everything there is to know. The materialization in all its splendor of the theory of communicative action that Habermas idealized. But here too the ideals sold illusions. The massive participation that the internet and social networks have brought is more emotional than rational, is more sophragm than thought-out, and, above all, is more controlled by algorithms than by ourselves. Despite the openness and proximity that the internet has brought us, we all end up living in bubbles, in a paradoxically reductive and manician vision, on one side are the good ones and on the other side are the bad ones, without confrontation and no healthy fight of ideas, extreme positions and fostering hatred, seeing, in the background, little more than what the internet wants to show us. No, it is not the fake news that win elections and create the bad ones that the good people want to save, but, yes, it is the fake news, the propaganda and manipulation that, among other deep and structural causes, help to grow populist phenomena on all sides and party spectra, that we all have a duty to oppose. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the PS here today essentially gives the European Action Plan against Disinformation. We therefore congratulate the PS for bringing this matter to discussion. It is a pity, Mr. José Magalhães, that the PS did not allow the discussion to take place effectively. It preferred the PS to have the exclusive of putting in Portuguese what has been approved in Europe. It is a legitimately valid option, but it is very poor, from the point of view of democracy, to raise arguments and solutions, and this is too serious a matter to be bought in solitary exercises. Still, we leave two or three ideas that, for the CDS, are vital and to which the PS does not respond. The first has to do with the role of the public service, which the PS resolution project simply ignores and should not, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the public service must be able to be the guarantor and faithful of the balance in this matter and this could and should have been brought to bear.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u96	The second aspect that the PS draft resolution does not value is the participation of the media as intermediaries between perceptions and facts. We know that it is not possible to ban false news. It is, in fact, unacceptable to do so, as we will inevitably end up in the anticipation of what we want to guard against. But we all know, too, that only a concert of the media for the construction of a capable and reliable tool for the verification of facts will allow a thorough action against false news, and on that the PS says nothing. Finally, the PS resolution project could and should have focused on proposing solutions such as German or French. Mr. José Magalhães said recently that it was not worth it. Well, the CDS thinks it's worth it. But no, the PS chose not to do so and chose not to let others do it. It is a missed opportunity, which we regret, but we will be here to return to the debate. Stay on the scenes of the next chapter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u97	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a debate, and we have no trace of initiatives from any parliamentary group, because this did not allow the PS, an issue as important as the fight against misinformation in defense of democracy. in this context, we refer to three previous notes. The first is that democracy defends itself in freedom, plurality, ethics and not in the shadow of files, in the silencing of initiatives from other parties or in the search for media protagonists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u100	It is symptomatic of the sincerity and good faith of the PS in this debate, when it intends to silence the possibility of other parliamentary groups scheduling initiatives. Good principles and ethics are not announced, they are demonstrated! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u101	The second note has to do with the fight against misinformation, which is done with informed people. Mr. José Magalhães is recognized as someone who knows and has been responsible in the State. But the fight against misinformation is also made without excessive frenzy, the fight against misinformation is certainly far from the bad examples, known to produce false news, that this government and the governments of José Socrates do not depart. Finally, I would like to stress that responsibility does not wear. This is a subject where we are all responsible, as citizens, parties and Parliament. It is therefore difficult to see that for the PS in this debate its responsibility is restricted to the submission of a draft resolution with recommendations to its Government to do what the Government has already promised to do. Such is only understandable with a PS that is already beginning to distrust the promises of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u102	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u103	The Government has designated Ambassador Luís Barreira de Sousa as responsible for this system. It took a balance sheet at the end of the first quarter of a system that would already be in full operation, in accordance with the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Well, the PSD knows the action plan, knows Communication 236, of the European Commission [ COM ( 2018 ) 236 ], so today it is going to introduce a request for Parliament to take account and report everything that has already been done in this area within a system that will already work. The PSD considers combating misinformation to be a fight for survival in the defence of democracy and freedom of expression. A healthy democracy is vitally dependent on a flow of healthy information, supported by the media that keeps its citizens informed. It is a fundamental assumption that information is reliable and this democratic pact suffers when information is omitted or, worse, adulteryd to serve some agenda. Disinformation is also a lethal weapon against the value of freedom of expression. The PSD has a legacy that is expensive to it and does not waste: citizens must communicate freely with each other. The first responsibility of the State is not to interfere or censor, but rather to ensure an environment favourable to a pluralistic and inclusive public debate, with freedom of expression. Truth is not a contingent of legal or political forces. Galileo was alone and he was right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u105	The first responsibility for power lies with democracy, and this is with the truth. The fight against misinformation is, however, both important and complex. Proving that it is a difficult fight is the fact that it is not enough to legislate. The only effective force in fighting is the quality of democracy, which is not conquered by decree. Legislative can even translate into a failed act, as illustrated by Malaysia's paradigmatic case. Even in the presence of more narrow and weighted solutions—and we have examples in France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom—there is a higher-value criticism in democracy: the danger of censorship.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u107	Combating misinformation is above all a complex fight! True, false news and manipulation of information are already coming from the analogue world. May the older ones say so, with real memories of censorship, or writers like Orwell, to whom the 40s inspired a fearful 1984. His infamous "Ministry of Truth" emerges as a double warning in our time: on the one hand, it shows us the last, destructive and despotic power of misinformation and on the other, the danger of a state without the knowledge of its limits, where, I quote, "who controls the past controls the future; who controls the present controls the past", a society where even knowing what was false was no longer enough to reach the true. It is also true that we have let these ancient analog practices turn into digital practices, in a world where speed has changed deeply, where the logic of network, without no nodal points, without gatekeepers, prevails. It confuses the citizen with the editor, confuses the commentator with the journalist, confuses the law and finally democracy. The exposure of citizens to large-scale misinformation is a challenge for all of us. The Internet has profoundly changed the way citizens access and interact with information. Participatory and inclusive democracy is a good consequence. Uninformed and manipulated democracy would be a bad result. There is much to be done in this context by competent, academic, professional and civil society in general. Reflection and action should consider three phases in the process, the first of which is motivation. It is important to understand the motivations underlying the creation of false news and to ensure that these activities, detrimental to democracy, are not unpunished when detected or left to the mercy of a justice system which is not prepared for its speed, evolution and « diffusivity ». at the level of dissemination, it is essential to know which main vehicles of false information in social media, as well as the type of message conveyed. It is essential to improve the digital and human capacity to detect its circulation. in this context, public policy must have three principles: the accountability of platforms; the appreciation of civic intervention, in which citizens themselves denounce these situations; and the defense of true journalism, which, with its code of ethics, can be the best antidote to false news. Finally, the impact and perception. It is essential to have an analysis of who are the people who reach and which are the most permeable. Above all, it is necessary to train citizens who have the ability to critically analyse information as participative actors in democracy. No one has any doubt that, in the long term, the wager in education is the vaccine against all false news. however, this is a war that has to be won on several fronts, being us here in Parliament on the first line. We have to lead, setting an example. To be deliberating on this draft resolution before Parliament knows what the Government has already done or before making an in-depth debate on the subject is to start wrong, we are to resign from our responsibility as the maximum organ of democratic plurality. Parliament must take this lead in the full representation of the various parties in regulatory terms and in tight monitoring of public policies. To extend the responsibilities solely to a government, whatever, is to open the doors to instrumentalize this fight and condition public debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u109	An ecosystem of free, pluralistic and well-regulated information based on demanding professional standards is indispensable for a healthy democracy and democratic debate. These are some of the conclusions of the European Commission. If we want to combat misinformation, then let us start with this Parliament. Only with courage and honesty, in the context of the democratic mandate that we all have here, will we be able to present together the solutions that Portugal and our democracy need. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u110	Since the Bureau no longer registers, I give the floor to Mrs Carla Sousa for the closing of the debate on this Socialist Party initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented here and which has been debated today is indeed a first contribution to a discussion which, in the face of the technological advances we are facing, will be a recurring debate for good and bad reasons. There we clearly welcome the interest of all sides in keeping this issue open. We are not addressing a new phenomenon, but it has become more complex, because the speed with which misinformation spreads and is shared is much greater; because the technological means at which it is available already allow to create misinformation, not only in text, but also in image and sound, contributing to misinformation chaos; and because the number of users present on social networks and platforms where it is spread is greater than in any other means of communication. And at a time when discredit in institutions is great, when traditional media mediators are weakened, when distrust in politicians and elites prevails and when users spend more time on networks than anywhere else, those seeking to manipulate the digital public sphere have the opportunity to capitalize on these levels of dissatisfaction. As Digital News Report points out today, the Internet is a combination of misinformational chaos: absence of rules, set of algorithms that encourage the rapid dissemination of low-quality content and misinformation; the very way links are shared on social networks makes it difficult to identify the nature of content. Therefore, it seems very important to us to extend and amplify existing media literacy projects, because empowering citizens to identify and avoid misinformation is the most democratic solution to restore confidence in traditional media, citizens and institutions, thus minimizing the hypothesis of manipulation without the sacrifice of freedom of expression. And for this, we need medium- and long-term policies of literature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u112	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u113	... with strategies that enable citizens, with instruments that allow them to understand how the digital public sphere is molded. Portugal is not immune to the phenomenon of misinformation, as we have seen in recent news, and Portuguese show vulnerabilities in identifying the phenomenon. in the recent Eurobarometer, 56 % of the national citizens surveyed said they could not identify false news, not perceive them as a problem for the country and for the functioning of democracy. These are figures below the European Union average, which led Brussels to say that this issue is worrying and deserves more attention. Public and civil authorities are not beyond the problem. As you know, a protocol has recently been signed between the Ministry of Education and the Journalists' Union for the creation of a pilot project in the field of media literacy, which provides for the involvement of over 100 teachers from 40 groups of schools and aims to put journalists and academics, experts on the media, to train teachers, so that they teach and encourage students to develop their critical spirit. But it is possible to go further and draw strategies with the involvement of all elements of the media ecosystem: regulators, platforms, old media, new editors, universities or representative associations, so that together they can create a program that enables citizens to navigate in the volume of existing online misinformation, but also make them understand how the network works, how the attention economy is fed, how the functions generated by the user, the algorithms, how their interactions and the digital trail transform democracy and the world in which we live. Teach citizens to use the media, but also explain how the media use them! In fact, it is important that these projects bypass the school environment and occupy a public space, because vulnerable groups are not only students and young people, they are also people over 55 years of age and with a low level of training.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u114	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u115	I will now finish, Mr President. I would also like to recall, and has already been mentioned here, the importance of the public television, radio and Lusa Agency media. All of them are working in common behalf, with bill-checking and information verification projects to be placed at the disposal of all of us. I conclude by saying that it is important that both public television and the communications agency can potentiate their brands and design projects for differentiated audiences on the subject of combating misinformation, which is ultimately also this fight for democracy. We count on everyone! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this intervention, I shall close the debate on the draft resolution presented by the Socialist Party, and we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-06.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the table records 192 meetings, to which are added those of the Members. Mr. José Magalhães and Mr. Joaquim Barreto, PS, and Mr. Carla Barros and Mr. Cristóvão Norte, of the PSD, thanking 196 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 2018 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the implementation in Portugal of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 7 March, at 3 p.m. First, vote No 754 / XIII / 4 will be appreciated. a ( PAR) — In spite of the victims of domestic violence. The 15-year debate with the Prime Minister shall be followed under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 59 minutes.]]
