ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists are open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. in the first item on the agenda we will generally proceed to the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1788 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the national multiple sclerosis register ( RNEM ), 1664 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the implementation of a common, uniform and comparable hospital register in the National Health Service, of people with multiple sclerosis and 1813 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a national registry on multiple sclerosis. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's talk about multiple sclerosis, a chronic, demyelinizing, disabling disease, with different evolutionary courses, which affects the central nervous system and has a high impact on the lives of patients who are affected by it. Multiple sclerosis is a chronic disease, as we have already said, and in Portugal it is estimated to reach about 8,000 people. I say it is estimated, because there are no reliable records regarding the prevalence, the size of this pathology. It is a disease that occurs mostly in young layers, between 20 and 40 years of age, and can also occur in paediatric age. What is consensual is that the impact of this disease is high and indeed has very high indirect costs, even higher than direct costs. What we know is that, in advanced stages of this disease, when disability is greater, patients have little support in our country, and that, from the point of view of access to rehabilitation and occupational therapies, support for caregivers and family members are still far from what is desirable. It would be worth the short time we have spent on this matter to remember that the impact of work can be high and that many of these patients have lost their jobs. The CDS believes that it is of the greatest importance and political importance to ensure access to good health care for all citizens, particularly when we talk about people with chronic and more vulnerable diseases. Getting reliable information about what is happening with these people is understood as fundamental, because what we have is indeed access to specialized and integrated care centers but, in some way, each centre has its record and there may be no cross-data, which makes it difficult for reliable characterization, as I have already said. For the CDS, in order to improve support for these people, it is crucial that there is strict epidemiological and sociological characterization, which is only possible through the creation of a register of data. That is what we have come to propose today, asking the Government to take the necessary measures to create a national multiple sclerosis register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. The national multiple sclerosis register is, in fact, the principle of safeguarding the rights of these patients, assuming the protection of data and the right to privacy of each person, but not failing, as it is evident, to take another step to support people with chronic disease. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u5	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, on May 30 last year, the PS Parliamentary Group presented, by its President, Dr. Carlos César, a proposal for the creation of a medical record at central, national and uniform hospital level that would be comparable to all hospitals, we were not imagining that the period that mediated the presentation of this proposal until today's debate generated such a large consensus. This is especially good for those who today suffer from chronic, inflammatory, degenerative disease, which mainly affects younger people, people between the ages of 20 and 40, especially women. The World Health Organization estimates that there are 2 and a half million people with multiple sclerosis in the world. In Portugal, there are about 8,000. This disease has not only a very large human impact but also a very strong social and economic impact on both the lives of patients and their families, since this disease has no cure. The diagnosis, as I said, happens early and at an active stage in the lives of individuals. The symptoms are unpredictable and the severity of the symptoms varies from person to person. It is estimated that 40% to 70% of multiple sclerosis patients may have cognitive alterations. Often, when diagnosed, they do not apply to the patient nor to the family, nor often to colleagues. Despite this striking portrait, it is still an unknown disease, without cure and with great degree of ignorance about its causes. hence the importance of a national patient register, a record that allows for the improvement of the accuracy of the diagnosis, identification, monitoring and clinical development of patients, the evolution of symptomatology, the search for new biomarkers that may indicate the existence of the disease as soon as possible, which can predict the evolution of the disease and what type of medication and treatment are more appropriate, since this is also a disease very dependent on drug innovation. So far, in Portugal, what we have is a record of the clinical information of the patient made by the doctor, who writes what he considers most important, information that remains in the hospital where the patient is followed. This record needs to be compared. We therefore need to have a national, central, uniform record that is comparable throughout the country. A record that allows patient characterization, biodemographic and clinical levels, as well as identification of various demographics and clinics associated with the existence of outbreaks and worsening of the disease. That is the proposal that the Socialist Party brings. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u7	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Multiple sclerosis — no one is waiting, especially when you have an active life. This is the main feeling, a negative feeling, which overwhelms those who receive this news. It is still a very unknown disease of society in general, but it is also a disease of the scientific community. Despite all the progress already made, there is still a way to go. It is not only because of the need to continue the path and because of the lack of strict knowledge about prevalence and incidence, but also because of the need to collect data on patients and clinical practice, that the representative associations of patients have taken and have fought for the creation of a national multiple sclerosis register. in the view of the PCP, the creation of the national registry of multiple sclerosis patients will allow the patient to be placed in the centre, which alone constitutes a huge benefit, mainly from the point of view of data collection on patients and clinical practice, and also by enhancing care and generating information for the research and development of new treatments. It is also a benefit to adequately respond to the needs of patients with multiple sclerosis. In Portugal there is already a national register, which is a good example to follow, particularly at the epidemiological level, from the planning point of view, from the point of view of care and information on the effectiveness of treatments. Mrs. Members, the CFP values the national register and considers it desirable that all the procedures necessary for the establishment of the national registry of multiple sclerosis patients should be initiated. The record we defend for patients with multiple sclerosis should obey the principles that guide data protection and should be developed by national public health services and authorities and should be restricted to one or more entities of the National Health Service. The CFP believes that the creation of the national registry of multiple sclerosis patients should be based on the following measures: setting up a working group of which the Directorate-General for Health, the hospitals and services of the SNS which treat and accompany multiple sclerosis patients, the central services of the SNS, notably the ACCSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and the SPMS ( Shared Services of the Ministry of Health ), and the scientific neurology societies ; that the Government provide the essential human and financial resources for the functioning of a national registry; that the National Health Service is the holder of the national multiple sclerosis registry; that the preparation of the national register should comply with the principles of data protection. Multiple sclerosis is time for the brain. For the CFP, now is the time for the implementation of the national registry of multiple sclerosis patients, which must obey the principles I have just stated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u9	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José António Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, inflammatory and degenerative disease that affects the central nervous system and is the main cause of neurological disability in young adults aged 20 to 40. It is estimated that in Portugal more than 8,000 people are currently suffering from multiple sclerosis. The consequences that multiple sclerosis normally carries, of which the multiple comorbidity associated with it is highlighted, have significant repercussions on the life and health of people affected by it, which cannot be completely ignored by us. Although there is currently no cure for multiple sclerosis, the control of this disease is considered essential to avoid or at least to reduce the consequences of outbreaks that can always occur. in this context, we welcome the various initiatives that are being discussed today in this House, all of them recommending to the Government the creation of a national multiple sclerosis register. This register will overcome the current situation, in which there is still no reliable and rigorous data on the incidence of multiple sclerosis in the Portuguese population. It would allow not only a profile of patients and their needs but also improve the assessment of the adequacy and impact of medicines used in their treatment and enhance therapeutic research. Having said otherwise, and in a simpler way, this register will allow for better knowledge of multiple sclerosis and thus help to make political decisions and assist health professionals, as well as support patients and their caregivers, whether formal or informal. This record will certainly contribute to better management of available resources, which is important in the treatment of this disease, which, I know, implies a high suffering for people who suffer from it and also significant costs for the National Health Service. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the creation of a national register of multiple sclerosis constitutes a claim claimed by the associations of multiple sclerosis patients and by the Portuguese Multiple Sclerosis Society itself. The European Medicines Agency has also already recognised that different countries must adopt national, uniform and comparable records, which provide real and credible information on the prevalence of the disease, the effectiveness of treatments and the impact of the disease on different societies. It would also allow for the future European registration of multiple sclerosis, which would certainly be an important tool to combat this disease and perhaps even to discover its future cure, which we all want. in this context, the PSD Parliamentary Group will naturally vote in favour of initiatives today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u11	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Multiple sclerosis, as has already been said, is a chronic, debilitating neurological disease and one of the main causes of non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults. That's what we know about the disease. We also know that it is more frequent between 20 and 40 years, that it is more prevalent in women, that in Portugal it should affect about 8,000 people, according to the estimate, and that it has a very heterogeneous evolution, with very variable forms and very specific progression from patient to patient. Unfortunately, however, there is much we still do not know about multiple sclerosis, particularly about this disease in Portugal. And we don't know, because there isn't a national record that allows us to better understand the pattern of this disease in our country. How many patients are there, right? What is the prevalence? What's the incidence? What is the geographical distribution? How old is the disease diagnosed? How long does the diagnosis take? What treatments are the patients following? And what are the results of these treatments? What are the main consequences, on a personal, social and psychological level? What services, health care and other support do people with multiple sclerosis need in Portugal? And are these people having access to these services, to these care, to those support? There are indeed many questions that will hardly have an answer without a central record that allows all data from all multiple sclerosis patients in Portugal to be compiled and treated. There are indeed many questions that, if answered, can help to know the disease better and, more importantly, improve the approach, improve treatment, improve health responses and social responses that patients with multiple sclerosis need in Portugal. The Left Block therefore agrees with the idea and proposals for the creation of a national multiple sclerosis register in our country, being safeguarded, of course, data protection issues, which, we believe, will be easily overcome. These issues have been overcome for the creation of the National Oncological Register and will therefore be safeguarded and also overcome for the creation of a national multiple sclerosis register. As I said, the Left Block follows these proposals, follows the idea of creating this national register and will therefore vote in favour of all the proposals put forward. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u13	To close this debate, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is pleased to note this consensus, which seems obvious to us, around a cause that must be everyone's. We reiterate that the creation of this national register will be an important step towards improving the quality of care provided to these patients and the dignity of a resilience route. We can therefore not fail to greet the patients and their families, real heroes of the daily and examples of courage and tenacity. I would like to say that, for us, there is of course more steps to be taken to support patients with multiple sclerosis, particularly with regard to equal access to innovation and innovative treatments, the provision of human resources in specialist consultations, specialist centres, and support for caregivers, both in early and advanced stages of the disease. So we certainly have a way to go, and this is an important step, so the CDS welcomes this consensus. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we thus conclude the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 1788 / XIII / 3. a, 1664 / XIII / 3. a and 1813 / XIII / 4. a We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Drafts of Law Nos 829 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishs criteria for non-emergency transport of patients, 805 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Exemption from non-emergency payment of patients ( Tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) and 887 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Non-emergency transport of patients. To open the debate, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is only better health for everyone with more and better National Health Service. There is only better health for all when all obstacles that persist in access to health and to the National Health Service are removed. in this legislation, important but clearly insufficient steps were taken to improve the accessibility of users to the SNS: moderate rates have been reduced and non-emergency transport allocation criteria have changed. We do not neglect the progress made in terms of the criteria defined for patients with disabilities equal to or greater than 60 % and minors with life-threatening and/or life-threatening diseases, but there are still problems that need to be resolved. Data from a study published in 2017 show that 2 million users were missing from the consultations because they were unable to pay the costs with transport. It is precisely with the aim of contributing to the removal of these obstacles that we present this bill. in the project, we argue that the non-emergency assignment of transport of patients is made to all those who need it, therefore free of charge; we also propose that it occur whenever there are clinical or economic reasons, thus withdrawing the cumulative character; we also propose that it be granted for consultations, treatments, supplementary tests of diagnosis and therapy, surgeries, as well as for the transport of the user to his residence after discharge or emergency episode. This is a concrete proposal to ensure the right of users to health care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PS, PSD and CDS are responsible for the introduction of legislative changes in this area, which have made it difficult and, in many cases, have made it impossible for many patients to access health care. The imposition of cumulative compliance with the criteria of clinical justification and economic insufficiency, a single condition for access to transport, undoubtedly contributed to the exclusion of those in need of transport. The obstacles that persist are still a consequence of the right-wing policy carried out by successive governments, with which the current government of the PS has not broken. It is to the right-wing policy that it is necessary to say'sufficient! Do not keep on seeking. ” It is necessary to guarantee and strengthen the rights of Portuguese in access to health care, as the CFP defends, through the strengthening of investment in the National Health Service and the allocation, as we propose today, of non-emergency transport to all those who need it. That is the proposal that the CFP brings here! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u17	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Making the payment of public health services is placing barriers to access to health. Compulsing users to be paid to access consultations and treatments is making many unable to access such consultations and treatments. How many times have we heard stories of people who paid 30 €, 40 €, 50 €, 60 € of transportation not urgent to go to a consultation or do a treatment at the hospital? How many times have we heard these stories, especially on the inside? How many times have we heard these stories, mainly told by people with lower incomes? How many times have we heard these stories and we know that they ended up as follows: 'I failed to consult because I could not pay for transport', 'I failed to treat, I stopped treatment, because I could not pay for transport'? It can't be like that! We can't afford that! The Sustainable Health Index for 2017 is unequivocal: in that year, 540,000 hospital consultations — I repeat, 540,000 hospital consultations — were to be carried out because of the transport price, i.e. people missed the consultation because they could not pay non-emergency transport, and another 260,000 consultations were to be carried out by cross factors, between moderate rates and transport prices. It can't be like that! We can't afford that! Therefore, the Left Block presents this bill, to ensure that the non-emergency transport price of patients ceases to be a barrier to access to health. The current law says that it may be exempt from the payment of non-emergency transport anyone who is incapacitating clinical situation and in situations of economic insufficiency, i.e. these two criteria are cumulative. However, someone who is in a medically incapacitating situation but not in a situation of economic insufficiency pays for this transport and someone who is in a situation of economic insufficiency but not in a clinically incapacitating situation also pays for that transport. Therefore, transport payment continues to be a barrier to thousands, and thousands and thousands of people in Portugal. What the Left Block proposes, with this draft law, is that these criteria cease to be cumulative: whoever is in a situation of economic insufficiency does not pay — the final point — and whoever is in an incapacitating clinical situation that justifies the need for non-emergency transport does not pay — the final point. What we propose, with this bill, is the most basic justice and it is in order to ensure access to health, so that in Portugal there are not hundreds of thousands of consultations to be held, due to the inability to pay for transport, and so that there are not thousands and thousands of users without access to health because they cannot afford non-emergency transport to the hospital. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u19	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the non-emergency transport of patients has been subject to various legislative changes, reflecting, in fact, cutting and disinvestment policies in the National Health Service and causing dramatic situations in the lives of thousands of patients. In fact, the cuts made in the allocation of transport credentials represented another blow in users' access to health care, promoting serious social injustices and compromising the universal nature of health care and their accessibility. In fact, from the time the changes made began to ensure the exemption from the non-emergency payment of patients only in cases where, at the same time, the assumptions of clinical justification and economic insufficiency were met, several cases were reported by doctors themselves, whose patients were absent from consultations due to economic inability to pay for their transport. We are talking about a problem of particular size in regions where the socioeconomic conditions of the populations are lower and the distances impose greater difficulties, which, with the perceived lack of public transport, makes the situation of the most economically vulnerable users even worse. Furthermore, the closure of dozens of health services, particularly at the level of primary care units and extensions, especially in areas within the country, and the consequent concentration of hospital specialities in large urban centres, oblige users to make an effort to attend the consultations they need. This is truly unacceptable, especially when several studies, national and international, point to the need to remove financial obstacles in access to health care in our country. More: through the Sustainable Health Index 2017, presented by Universidade Nova de Lisboa, we learned that the impact of transport costs on access to external consultations is almost twice the impact of the costs of moderate rates, leading more than half a million users to miss out on external consultations in hospitals precisely because they cannot bear the costs of transport. While it is true that, in the new parliamentary framework, some measures have already been taken, such as the replacement of several exemptions to the level of user transport or the reduction of the values of moderate rates, it is also true that these improvements are not sufficient. from the perspective of the Greens, it is absolutely essential to go further, in order to reduce conditionalisms and obstacles that prevent citizens from accessing health care. The Greens therefore consider that, in relation to the transport of patients, it is essential to extend the award criteria for greater coverage of cases. This is the objective of the bill that The Greens today bring to discussion, thus making a contribution to removing obstacles to Portuguese access to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome today's debate on such an important topic for so many Portuguese people who need daily transportation within the National Health Service. in our perspective, in today's debate, it is essential to talk about structural pillars in health policies: the universality and equality of citizens in access to SNS. It is also an obligation of the State to ensure equity in the distribution of resources and in the use of services. So I'm asking you a question. Members of BE, The Greens and the CFP : do you think that your projects are a guarantee of equity and social justice as pillars of the rule of law? That's not how they are! The BE and the PCP, in their ideological vision of giving everything to everyone without any limit to funding, do not condition in their respective bills, even if the transport is not urgent to a clinical situation that justifies it. The Greens go even further: they assume the freeness of this type of transport, without any criterion of analysis, referring to a later government decision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in the past we did not follow the highly restrictive regime created at the time by the Socialist Government of José Socrates, in 2010 which determined that « the payment of the transport of non-emergency patients is guaranteed to users in situations that simultaneously meet the following requirements: if clinically justified and in the event of economic failure. contrary to what the Left Block Member said today, this has happened in the past and we will reverse this situation. Therefore, I cannot fail to mention the positive developments in this transport regime in the previous Government, PSD / CDS. for our part, the PSD continues to review this non-emergency transport regime of patients, according to which "the non-emergency transport of patients who are instrumental in the delivery of health benefits under the SNS is free from user charges when the clinical situation justifies it(...) and provided that their economic failure is proven. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u23	It's cumulative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u24	It is not cumulative, Mrs. Member. We point out that the payment of transport charges is still provided by the SNS to patients who are not in a situation of economic insufficiency but who need long-term and continuous health care. This, yes, is a fair, balanced regime that respects the needs and health conditions of users of the National Health Service without jeopardizing the desirable transparency and fairness of the financial effort of Portuguese taxpayers. To defend the universal free movement of non-emergency transport, regardless of the economic situation, is to defend socially unfair equality and which only disadvantages the most vulnerable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u25	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Gouveia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are considering three bills on the same subject — non-emergency transport of patients. There are three bills that essentially point to the partial or total revocation of Article 5. the Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November. It is noted that the current government, in its health programme, has also taken priority in reducing inequalities between citizens in access to health, in particular and in particular by restoring the right to non-emergency transport of patients. The implementation of this priority objective has, in fact, been based on a progressive and sustainable process, a corporated process in the adoption and implementation of measures that have as a background, as it could not be, the positive differentiation of more vulnerable people. In fact, the latest portfolios of the current government's responsibility, namely the 2016 Portabilities Nos 83 and 275, as well as Dispatch No 4703, 2018, are well illustrated by the effective extension and replacement of the right to non-emergency transport of patients. Indeed, its application results in a clear improvement in the response of the National Health Service translated into a significant and fairer social coverage in the exemption from payment of non-emergency transport of patients. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite this positive evolutionary framework, we are aware — there are recent studies that refer to it — that there are still a considerable number of examples of cases of non-consultation and/or treatment, either hospital or primary care network, also for reasons of economic insufficiency. This fact makes it clear that the continuity of the ongoing process is only a social imperative. Paraphrasing someone, the way goes. We add that it is done with social sensitivity, with social responsibility and also with technical rigour in the previous assessment of impacts, a condition that is absolutely essential to the sustainability of this process in which we are and we will continue firmly committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u27	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We return to chronic disease issues as it is because of the increased longevity and prevalence of chronic diseases that thousands of Portuguese have to have an adequate transport system to be able to consult in primary health care, consultations in secondary care and, indeed, to maintain treatments that can give them the proper quality of life. For us, the issue of the transport of non-emergency patients is a central axis in ensuring citizens' access to good health care. The CDS wants to make it clear again that it is an inalienable right for all Portuguese to have access to good health care, regardless of the organisational type of care that these same care can be covered. We understand that an adequate transport system is vital to ensure access to health for many Portuguese people in a vulnerable condition in a chronic disease situation. It has already been recalled that there have been restrictive changes in the time of the Socrates Government in what the transport of patients was not urgent and therefore the revision of the legislation made by the previous Government has made it more just, more equitable. The system for the transport of non-emergency patients has begun to ensure such transport in cases of economic insufficiency, as well as those in need of prolonged and continued treatment in numerous chronic diseases. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is required is not irresponsibility and demagogy. As for us, what is required is good management of public goods, particularly in the field of health, and because austerity has not ended, a management that promotes equity and social justice rigorously and — I insist — is not demagogic and never depriving those who, with chronic illness, need to resort to non-emergency transport. in this measure, we have clear that, in addition to what we are discussing today, what is central to providing the country with a transport network, not only thinking in Lisbon and Porto, but recalling that the problem of accessibility is more serious in the interior and that it exists at the end of three years and such socialist governance supported by those who today propose these diplomas. What is needed is to provide the interior with better means of transport to ensure that access to health care is not compromised. The CDS supports measures that do not have to do with demagogy or social injustice or the promotion of inefficiencies. We understand, of course, that the right to health, particularly in chronic patients who need transport, must be ensured. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u29	To close the debate, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u30	Mr President, at the end of this debate it is indeed clear which side is on which side are those who defend the right to health, those who argue that all obstacles that still persist in access to health and, in particular, in the allocation of non-emergency transport of patients should be removed. The PSD and CDS come to say that the regime that is currently in force is a fair regime. It is a regime that prevents patients from accessing consultations, treatments, complementary health examinations. We understand why PSD and CDS defend this regime. It's just that they contributed a lot to him. But the PS says: "We recognize that there are still problems, we recognize the obstacles, but we need to go. » Mr. João Gouveia, of the PS, we recognize the advances, but we need to go further, and it only doesn't go further – and today it is once again proven – because the PS does not disparate itself from those that have been the options with regard to health, the right to health, and what the country must effectively do. And what the country should do is remove all obstacles that still persist in access to health care in the National Health Service. And this goes hand in hand with the approval of the proposal presented by the CFP here: that all patients who have a clinical justification and need to transport it should be assigned to them, that all patients who do not have economic conditions but need to transport it too. Mrs. Members, it cannot be accepted that patients who do not have the financial capacity to bear the costs — and many — do not have the right to transport. I give just one example: a patient who lives in Grândola and needs to go to the hospital to Santiago do Cacém pays between 60 € to 70 € just to go and pay the same amount on the return. This is what's at stake here, access to health. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u31	We move on to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Drafts of Law No. 929 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — eliminates the deadline for dismantling end-of-life vehicles in slaughter centres ( amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) and 1075 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — End of one year to dismantle vehicles in certified centres. To open the debate and present the diploma of your party, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through this bill, The Greens bring a concrete proposal to the Assembly of the Republic to eliminate the deadline for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles in the slaughter centres. A very brief explanation of what is at stake: in politics, we must take principles and then apply them to specific cases. The basic principle of waste policy is that priority is given to the policy of the three countries: to reduce, reuse, recycling. And this order is not arbitrary: first, reduce waste; then reuse them as far as possible; and recycle them. And then the other phases. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now transport this principle to end-of-life vehicles, which are collected, dismantled and slaughtered in properly licensed centres and with suitable facilities for this purpose. in this sense, what is happening is that certain parts of vehicles can be reused, for example in the repair of other vehicles, and with this reuse what we are doing is also reducing, in excess, the production of more parts for more waste. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all this seems very appropriate, it seems to be very well applied. It appears that the law has a small exception, which is the imposition of licensed operators for these processes within one year for the total dismantling of these end-of-life vehicles. It happens that the market itself, often, does not have the possibility of draining all these parts from this dismantling of end-of-life vehicles, which leads to that rather than being reused, to another form of final treatment of these wastes, although this is not the correct application of the basic principle of waste policy I mentioned at the beginning. Moreover, as for other operators in other Member States of the European Union, no time limit is imposed, logic is laid down, so let us say, a competitive disadvantage in relation to these European counterparts, taking into account that this deadline appears to be applied only in Portugal. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law ultimately portrays that which is a well-applied logic and therefore has a sustainability basis which must be welcomed. in this sense, what The Greens here propose to the Assembly of the Republic, asking for the understanding and approval by all parliamentary groups, is just the elimination of the deadline of a year currently established in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u33	To present the CDS-PP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS also presents a bill that aims to extend the deadline for dismantling end-of-life vehicles. Today, waste management entities are duly certified, comply with a rigorous licensing process and proceed to depollution of vehicles upon arrival, with the removal of oil, fuel, batteries and other materials that are polluting. Therefore, end-of-life vehicles after this process no longer have the classification of hazardous waste. Today, the national legal system has established, by transposing a Community directive, that the decommissioning and storage operations of end-of-life vehicles must be carried out in order to ensure reuse and exploitation, only that this logic of circular economy, which must favour the reuse of all possible materials, valuing all the rest and reducing landfill, is somehow averted by the fact that, as has already been said, this process is limited within a year, which does not often sympathize with market dynamics. If operators are unable to reuse the various components of these end-of-life vehicles within this period, then they have to dismantle and forward for other purposes, some are recyclable and others will end up landing, which is contrary to the logic of the circular economy. It also has another negative factor, which is the fact that it limits the economic profitability of operators, which no longer can economically value those parts that could be sold to second-hand vehicles. The CDS therefore proposes that the current one-year term be extended to five years. And why? Because we believe that it enables us to maximize the reuse of the various components of these vehicles, but, at the end of five years, the parts themselves will no longer be in very good conditions of reuse, so we understand, even by consulting the sector, that it would be a reasonable period of time. There is, however, an exception: there is no time frame in the specific case of vehicles with historical interest. And why? Because these are vehicles that are no longer produced, there are no more parts on the market and some are still in circulation. Therefore, it does not make sense to destroy those who are not in circulation because, in the case of any other vehicle still in circulation — these vehicles have historical interest and, in most cases, are collection vehicles — need a piece, it is essential that you can use the only source of existing parts, which are these end-of-life vehicles that are in these operators. Therefore, if this is not the case, they will be unable to circulate and, in this sense, the CDS proposes that, in this particular case, there be no time limit for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u35	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Reducing, reusing and recycling is the main guiding principle for public waste policies with which we are all committed and that the government has chosen as a priority in promoting these policies. But there is another fundamental principle that cannot be forgotten, the principle of responsibility for all stakeholders — producers, distributors and consumers. political decision-makers are essentially responsible for the application of these principles and never hinder their application; on the contrary, they are required to legislate in order to facilitate the effectiveness of the processes, ensuring environmental sustainability. Now, what these bills bring us is exactly that: to pursue, more effectively, environmental sustainability goals, by extending the possibility of recovering parts of end-of-life vehicles for recycling and reuse, thus introducing greater rigour in the process. The obligation to comply with short-term deadlines for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles has been limited by good environmental practices, and it often works as an obstacle to the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles. It is this state of affairs that these projects will put an end to, without failing to maintain the guarantee that the wastes considered dangerous that end-of-life vehicles will be treated as such within a limited period of time. Both Community law and national legislation are today the guarantee that the operators of this sector, particularly the slaughter centres, have strict and strict rules to be able to operate. Within this framework, we can say that the initiatives now under discussion are encouraging more appropriate practices to the reality and more environmentally friendly. Therefore, the PS is available to approve all proposals that contribute to good environmental practices and remove obstacles to their implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u37	Mr António Topa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December 2017 establishes the legal regime to be subject to the management of various specific waste streams, including end-of-life vehicles, also establishing environmental and human health protection measures aimed at preventing or reducing the adverse impacts of the production and management of such wastes, reducing the overall impacts of the use of resources, improving the efficiency of such use and contributing to sustainable development by transposing to the internal legal order Directive No 2000 / 53 / EC of the European Parliament. This legal diploma as provided for in Article 87 ( 7 ). the, obliges licensed operators for these processes to dismantle all end-of-life vehicles within a maximum of one year after their receipt. The PSD Parliamentary Group expresses its agreement with the project which upholds the absence of that period of one year or any other for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles for the following reasons: Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 transposes into Portuguese legislation Directive No 2000 / 53 / EC, as amended by several other directives which have followed it, which defines the arrangements applicable to the management of end-of-life vehicles, with a view to preventing the production of waste from vehicles and promoting the reuse, recycling and other forms of their recovery, without providing for any time limit for their dismantling. Thus national slaughter centres would be at a competitive disadvantage compared to their European counterparts, since that one-year period exists only in Portugal. National slaughter centres are licensed under strict legislation, with the participation of several entities in the economic, civil protection, health, environment and others, with adequate equipment and facilities and with quality for the exercise of the activities of depollution and decommissioning of end-of-life vehicles, being obliged to depolulate all vehicles they receive in 15 days, no longer being hazardous waste and having the status of banal waste. On the other hand, the market for parts and components used in end-of-life vehicles is not always able to release these components within one year, which obliges companies to recycle or, even, eliminate, to the detriment of reuse, not contributing to a qualified and planned waste management. according to these terms, it is our understanding that the non-imposition and existence of any time limit for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles is the attitude that best contributes to better and more adequate waste management and to greater reuse of the parts and components resulting from the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u39	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: while society has been transforming itself and has been accentuated by the globalisation of the economy and information, environmental problems have become an inevitable point of discussion which for the CFP must be focused on the need for rational management of resources. Reflecting and discussing environmental issues should always be directed towards harmonising economic and social development and sustainable management of natural resources. Increasing waste production requires the implementation of measures to reduce, reuse and recycling such waste. Without prejudice to the increasing effort to re-use and recycle, we believe that the central issue is undoubtedly the reduction of waste. It is here that all efforts should be concentrated and that is why the CFP is following the proposals presented here today, which are aimed at amending the legally stipulated deadline for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles in the slaughter centres. We understand, however, that the Greens proposal, by completely eliminating the deadline for dismantling end-of-life cars, is more consistent with the objective for which these proposals are aimed, i.e., to give more viability to the rules of the three Rs: to reduce, reuse and recycling. Without the pressure to comply with the deadlines laid down by law, the end-of-life vehicle slaughter centres will have a greater possibility of re-use of parts and other living materials, which will provide a reduction in the production of these components and a more organized management of the destination of waste, of non-reusable materials, which will be a more environmentally appropriate destination. The CFP has repeatedly recalled that we should bear in mind that, in the hierarchy of waste management, first, comes the reduction, then, reuse and only then recycling. That is why the CFP will intervene and support initiatives that aim to reduce production, increase reuse and that recycling is the culmination of a cycle with a view to an increasingly sustainable environment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u41	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares (BE) ; — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from a climate point of view, we have seen this week as an example of our greatest fears, namely, the United States faces an unprecedented cold wave, temperatures of 40 degrees negative, and Australia is witnessing an unprecedented heat wave, with an average temperature above 40 degrees positive. However, these extreme climates well demonstrate the reality of climate change on our planet and the need to change our behaviors and adapt our economy to a more sustainable model is an urgent need that cannot be expected. Therefore, although we have updated, with regard to waste legislation, matters relating to end-of-life vehicles. In fact, the policy of the three Rs — reducing, reuse and recycling — has guided the treatment of waste and, particularly in the automotive and end-of-life vehicles, has demonstrated how it is possible to have appropriate environmental practices, properly monitored and with both public health and environmental protection. It is clear — and the arguments already used demonstrate — that the obligation of vehicles to be dismantled within one year puts in question one of the pillars of the policy of the three Rs, that of reuse. from this point of view, the initiatives that are on the table to change the deadline for dismantling vehicles ensure a greater possibility of reuse of parts and parts of these cars. We believe that the one-year deadline is not acceptable, but it also seems to us that there is no time limit for the dismantling of these vehicles. That is why an intermediate position between the proposals put forward by the CDS and the Greens Ecological Party seems to us to be the best solution. We will follow the two proposals with the intention of contributing, in particular, to achieve this great time for the dismantling of vehicles. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u42	To close this item on the agenda, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens welcome the unanimity that exists with regard to the project we have presented to withdraw the deadline for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles, with the aim of promoting the reuse of parts and the reduction of the production of future waste. in this sense, we believe that this is an important step that the Assembly of the Republic will take and an essential part in waste management. I did not speak in my initial speech about the CDS project because my goal was to make the presentation of the Green Bill. However, I think it is risky for the CDS to propose an extension of the period from one to five years. The question that could ask the CDS is the following: if certain parts, after five or six years, are in perfect condition to be reused, why are we going to make them waste? I believe that, with this deadline, it is assumed that the pieces last only five years, but these environmental issues cannot be presumed exactly that way. Things are or are not: if they are in a position to be reused, they should be reused and not disposed outside; if they are not in a position to be reused, they cannot be reused and must have their proper destination in terms of waste. in this sense, we have some doubts about the CDS proposal, but, from what I realized about the way in which parliamentary groups vote, we will have the opportunity, in the field of specialty, to do this discussion and, eventually, to eliminate this deadline, as the Greens propose. I think it is an important step that the Assembly of the Republic can take.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u44	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 4 of the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 236 / XIII / 2. a (UVP - Portuguese Federation of Cycling) — They call for measures to be taken in order to defend the right to pedal safely, together with, in general, Resolution Projects Nos 1872 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government update the school insurance regulation to include accidents occurring with motor-free speeds, 1927 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Extension of the scope of coverage of school insurance to bicycle travel and 1940 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing road risk on bicycle users. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by welcoming the petitioners for their initiative and for the content of it, because the matter they bring here is very relevant from the point of view of mobility and sustainability. As mentioned by the petitioners, and well, the last amendment to the Road Code, operated in the previous legislation, had significant advances, especially in the treatment of vulnerable users, including not only pedestrians, but also bicycle users. It appears that, in this review, some of the subjects that were introduced into the Road Code continue to have a very unsatisfactory realization. For example, the coexistence between one who is the means of transport par excellence in Portugal, the car, and the bicycle, especially in urban areas, is still not the best because it does not respect the principles introduced at that time in the Road Code, and therefore evolution is not as satisfactory as what was intended. Much of what is mentioned in the petition makes sense not only in terms of the application of the law that already exists, but also in the promotion of good practices, because we know that, by analyzing road sinequality in Portugal, we continue to have, compared with other countries, a very high level of sinequality within the localities, which is of enormous gravity and often questions the physical integrity of pedestrians and bicycle users. We therefore believe that there are some symbolic measures to be promoted and the CDS presents one of them in its draft resolution, which, in fact, had already been presented in the State budget but, unfortunately, did not have enough votes to be adopted. We therefore propose that school insurance cover the travel to schools by the students who make the bicycle journey. It makes no sense—and this happens right now—that school insurance protects students who travel by car and does not protect students who travel by bicycle. When we want to promote good practices from the point of view of sustainability and when we want to have more sustainable mobility, it does not make sense that school insurance excludes this kind of travel to school. Thus, the CDS presents its draft resolution and will vote in favour of the draft resolutions of The Greens and the NAP, because it believes that not only at the level of school insurance but also of the promotion of good practice and the proper application of the Road Code is the key to promoting the use of bicycle as a means of transport and deepening sustainability and mobility as public transport policies in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u46	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens want, firstly, to welcome the more than 9800 petitioners who brought to the Assembly of the Republic a very important matter for reflection and action. The petitioners draw attention to the brutality of the number of road accidents, call upon the Assembly of the Republic and also the Government that, in addition to the measures they have taken, including in other legislatures, are proactive in taking measures to reduce the number of road accidents and point out a set of initiatives that consider important, such as improving the state of our road roads, strengthening road surveillance and also more education for road citizenship. They are important aspects that deserve to be reflected, reinforced and targeted by the Assembly of the Republic. The number of road accidents and the trend of the years 2017 and 2018 should be of deep concern to the Assembly of the Republic as well as the taking of subsequent measures to reduce these accidents. There is another component in which the Greens have given a huge priority, particularly in their parliamentary intervention, which has to do with promoting alternative mobility, non-polluting mobility. in this specific case, we include the use of bicycle and the promotion of active or soft mobility, as we want to call it. in this sense, The Greens have presented several initiatives aimed at promoting the use of the bicycle, which has a component to promote physical activity, and therefore has to do with the health of individuals, but also has a very strong environmental component. If we could achieve that a good percentage of the pendulum movements, particularly in short distance, could be made by bicycle, we would have very significant environmental gains. But in order for the citizens to make these bike hangers, there is, in fact, a need to create security conditions. And there is another set of measures that can be taken in order to stimulate the daily or regular use of the bicycle and one of them is precisely to which the Greens Ecological Party brings today to the Assembly of the Republic: that of school insurance to cover the travel that students can make from home to school and from school to home. School insurance currently leaves out this kind of travel, but if we want to promote it, we believe that insurance should cover it. This type of travel is designated as smooth mobility, such as pedestrian mobility. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the concrete proposal that the Greens bring to the Assembly of the Republic and that we hope to be approved by the other parliamentary groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u48	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the petitioners for bringing this important issue to Parliament. The use of bicycles as a means of travel, alone or in combination with public transport, brings various and enormous environmental, social, economic and public health benefits. As Portugal is the second largest bicycle producer at European level and having exported in 2017 about 1 million and seventy thousand, despite this, the use of bicycle as a means of travel is still residual, representing less than 0, 5 % of the travels carried out in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. Given that Portugal is the country of the European Union with the highest mortality rate of bicycle users, we believe that it is essential to adopt measures to give more protection to its users and thus increase their use. We therefore propose the creation of a national, integrated and comprehensive strategy for bicycle mobility and an inter-ministerial working group to launch and coordinate measures aimed at reducing road risk on vulnerable users. We also advocate the creation of more low-speed areas within cities and a bet on the development of cycloways connecting between cities of different municipalities. Finally, we propose the revision of the Traffic Signaling Regulation to include specific signals to protect pedestrians and bike drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u50	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the citizens who have subscribed and submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic. The promoters of this initiative — the Portuguese Federation of Cycling and other bodies of the Associative Movement — who brought this issue of road safety to the House, in particular with regard to the so-called 'vulnerable users', in the face of situations of the risk of weakness, require a different response and care by the State, whether in matters of legislation or in terms of concrete action and the development of initiatives. The CFP has been committed to the process of discussing and reviewing the Road Code and has sought to contribute, and I think it has succeeded, with positive and constructive initiatives and changes that protect bicycle users more correctly, particularly in the road environment. It is always necessary to monitor and evaluate the progress of the situation with regard to the application of these rules and these options that we have at the time. There are matters which clearly correspond to the competences and tasks of the central power, i.e. the ministries. The Ministry of Internal Administration is responsible for matters relating to the security forces and their activities of supervision, deterrence and even pedagogy in relation to users, because the risk is something that should be taken into account permanently and combated, but also in relation to the regulation of traffic signals, which is at a late stage since the Road Code has been revised. On the other hand, with regard to school insurance, the Ministries of Education, Finance and Health could already have updated the portaria, following the adoption, unanimously, in this House of the Republic, about three or four years ago, of an initiative on this subject. Moreover, it is important to say that the authorities themselves, which have powers not to be exceeded by the central power, with their autonomy of local power, must have the means and conditions necessary to fulfil their role and their role in the road environment not only in the cities but also in the municipal road network, where these issues must be put. Therefore, we are generally in favour of projects that are placed on the table. With the possible approval of these projects and with the new rules, they will be downgraded to the committee for the specialized work to be done. We are available to cooperate and to contribute constructively to the presentation of a more coherent and stricter text that is being taken over by the entire Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u52	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the leaders of the Portuguese Federation of Cycling and the approximately 10,000 petitioners, who call for measures to be taken to defend the right to pedal safely. Yes, it is true that the roads in Portugal remain too dangerous. Yes, it is true that Portugal continues to present shameful statistics on the number of fatal and seriously injured victims, despite the significant improvements made by the revision of the Road Code in 2014, in particular with regard to the protection of vulnerable users, as a result of 10 years of work in this Parliament, with the collaboration of many civil society institutions. But unfortunately, the most recent data from 2017 and 2018 have been tragic; unfortunately, it has been the reversal of the decline trend since 2010 of road accidents and fatal victims. Moreover, the President of the Republic recently appealed to the Portuguese people to combat road-trafficking in the country and called for a commitment from the authorities to prevention, education and signage. Yes, it is true that there is still much to be done at the level of public policies: legislation, supervision and physical measures of traffic calm. Because it is also important to remember that the only reason for walking and cycling is that by law, vulnerable user is due to the behaviour, on the road, of drivers of faster, heavy and dangerous modes of transport. Therefore, risk reduction and awareness actions should focus on the origin of road hazard, obliging zero tolerance to risk behaviour by motor vehicle drivers. So there are questions to the government that have to be asked and which delay to be answered: for when to monitor more intensively the enforcement of the law, especially dangerous behaviors in relation to vulnerable users, such as failure to comply with the rules on cyclists' overruns such as speed slowing, occupation of the adjacent route and respect for lateral distance from the cyclist at least 1, 5 m? When is the revision and publication of the Traffic Signaling Regulation much needed, so as to include specific signals to protect pedestrians and bicycle users and to alert them to the need for more responsible behaviour by car drivers? This issue is fundamental and urgent. For when the creation and placement of information signals about the presence of cyclists on certain routes, like what happens in Spain, complemented by the affixing of the minimum lateral distance of 1, 5 m in the overstepping of velocipedes? Having the petition and Mr President of the Republic addressed the issue of education for citizenship, when is it that a real impetus from the Government to a policy of education for road citizenship and the protection of the most vulnerable users in school curricula and in obtaining driving licences? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u54	The next intervention lies with Mr António Cardoso of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Portuguese Federation of Cycling, as well as the approximately 10,000 subscribers to this petition, which alone reveals the public concern in the protection of pedestrians and drivers of motor-free velocipedes whenever they use the public road. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this petition calls for more prevention and more road safety, through more efficient monitoring with a view to improving road traffic management in order to reduce risk behaviour by motor vehicle drivers. In the light of the questions presented, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group draws the attention of PENSE 2020, the National Strategic Road Safety Plan, which created the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Road Safety, the National Road Safety Council and the Scientific Monitoring Council. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the National Road Safety Council is the forum itself to discuss these issues, especially since it is planned to involve non-governmental associations and organisations in the area of road safety. More: PENSE 2020 provides for an extended set of measures that meet the recommendations of this petition and the NAP resolution project, from which we highlight the dissemination and incentive to use road education references for pre-school education, for basic and secondary education and for adult education and the development of campaigns aimed not only at motor-free speed users, warning them of risk behaviors, including the non-use of protective equipment, but also to motor vehicle drivers, focusing on the interaction with motor-free speedy users. On the proposed amendments to the Transit Signalling Regulation, it should be borne in mind that this has to be in line with the existing international conventions. However, a draft review of the said Traffic Signaling Regulation is under way, which includes some signs that fall under the most vulnerable user problem. Finally, without prejudice to other contributions from other entities, it should be recalled that there are measures to encourage and sensitize authorities for the adoption of support measures, removal of barriers for users of reduced mobility and cycle programmes duly integrated with transport networks. in this sense, I remember that the government is implementing the national program PC 2030 ( Portugal Ciclable 2030 ), which is an incentive to increase infrastructure dedicated to the use of bicycle as a mode of transport, in addition to other advantages that can be enjoyed in terms of health, leisure and ecotourism, providing for the construction of 110 cycloviaes so that Portugal will have 960 km of cycle in 2030. The measures provided for in PENSE 2020 and PC 2030 meet this petition and the draft NAP resolution today, which recommends to the Government measures aimed at reducing the risk of bicycle users. Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will not oppose the feasibility of the Greens and the CDS draft resolutions. The use of the bicycle must be valued, but as in any transport system, its safety must always be the highest priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u56	Mr Fernando Barbosa, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the petitioners for the initiative, where the 9845 signatures are visible to a larger number that daily carries very high risks in their bicycle journeys, unfairly subjecting themselves to the law of the strongest in road traffic, and to those who choose to travel to work or to school using modes of transport considered less vulnerable, so we follow the need to update and incorporate bicycle users into school insurance. The Left Block understands that the use of bicycles should coexist and complement the other means of mobility and that signage should be created and implemented that strengthens road safety to the various types of users of the public road, in particular, and, for example, the need to create, regulate and install signals that alert to the need to ensure the distance of 1, 5 m when exceeding a bicycle user. The authorities, normally because it is cheaper, choose to paint on the signage floor that indicates the ways of coexistence, as well as the possibility of finding bicycle users on the road. We all know that, often, this horizontal signaling is not sufficient or perceptible, so the authorities must bet on vertical signaling and that same signaling should often be repeated to alert the various types of users on these channels of communication. This is not a question of mobility, it is also a question of justice and citizenship. The Left Block advocates more pedagogy and training, including the incorporation of education and awareness-raising programmes in the formation of new drivers, but also in schools and in the community, through campaigns carried out by the National Road Safety Authority. The Left Block understands that investment in cyclists equipped with safety, as well as in campaigns of pedagogy and road training, in addition to the reduction of sinequality, will contribute to the adoption of the bicycle as a complement to urban mobility, with recognised environmental and economic benefits and, above all, to cease being the weakest link in mobility. Protection of soft mobility is a contribution to the necessary energy transition of the country, so safeguarding the rights of cyclists is essential for road safety, but also for these environmental issues. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the weakest link cannot apply to bicycle users. The weakest link serves for an entertainment program, does not serve for real life and the use of bicycles as leisure or as a means of mobility is increasingly real life. For the Left Block in real life no one stays behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u58	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point five of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 246 / XIII / 2. a (Cristina Maria Tavares Coelho da Silva Alves et al.) — Legislative amendments are requested with a view to the consecration of the right time of service for the cancer survivor. To begin this debate, Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP has the floor. In the meantime, the Bureau requests the other parliamentary groups to indicate their registrations for this point. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the more than 8,000 subscribers of this petition, which brings us a very delicate subject and for which the CDS is extremely aware. In addition, over the years we have been presenting several legislative initiatives related to oncological diseases. The incidence of cancer continues to increase and, although, fortunately, there is increasing success in treatment and in access to more and better medication, we cannot stop worrying about the follow-up of this disease either during treatment or in the survival situation. As the petitioners say very well, and I will quote them, "A considerable number of patients who have undergone cancer treatment and have survived will have late effects, i.e., side effects that develop months or even years after treatment has ended. Monitoring and treatment of these effects should be considered as an important factor to be taken into account in post-treatment follow-up care. And then they spell out in detail many of these side effects that may arise. The CDS is perfectly aware that the impact of cancer can be devastating. When an oncological disease is diagnosed, the shock and suffering of the person himself, his family and caregivers are immense, but, as the petitioners say, and as we all know, these effects are prolonged over time. We must and can highlight other aspects associated with extremely complex oncological disease and which, we say again, have an impact on the months and years of survival. From then on: regular displacements, often tens or hundreds of kilometres for treatments; aggressive medications, with very violent side effects; visible physical changes; restricted diets; patient impossibility to continue their normal work path; absolute need for isolation, often to protect their immune system; the obligation of caregivers to lack their jobs to be able to accompany the patient; long-term lows that result in loss of income for the family aggregate and consequently significant increases in costs resulting from medication, food and displacement. This has, we repeat, impact over the years, the petitioners have asked for the cancer survivor to reduce the weekly working period for 30 hours — both for the public and private workers — without penalising remuneration and also to grant the right to reform with 30 years of service or 60 years of age without penalty. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that it is the obligation of the State to protect these patients even in a survival situation. All possible and financially sustainable measures should be taken to meet these needs. We are faced with a question that is not ideological and is not biased, that must be transversal to all of us, in plenary and in society. from the CDS, we are available for a very serious and conscious weighting of the pressure that this brings to the social state. But again, we are fully available for this joint reflection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u60	The next intervention will be that of Mrs Sofia Araújo, of the Socialist Party, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating, on behalf of the Socialist Party, all petitioners, especially Cristina Alves. At present, we know that cancer is already considered the main public health problem at European level and that it is increasingly a chronic disease, because, despite an increasing incidence, there are much more cures, longer-term survivals, with a high quality of life, and a large number of survivors to resume, fortunately, their usual work. Today, we can also see that some gaps in the National Health and Social Security Service have been overcome over the years. We highlight the various benefits in these areas, such as the National Health Service, the participation of medicines, moderate rates, the sharing of costs with prosthetics or other support products, the sharing of travel expenses. in the area of social security, we highlight measures in the protection of the disease, in the special protection of disability, still existing tax benefits in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), VAT (tax on value added), vehicle tax, single circulation tax, as well as benefits in the credit for housing, rent and measures to stimulate employment, life and disability insurance. with regard to the employment system, the worker with disabilities or chronic illness is equal in rights and duties to other workers in access to employment, vocational training, career development and working conditions, except specifically as regards their situation. The worker with disabilities or chronic illness may be exempted from his or her professional activity in the adaptability regime — a bank of hours or concentrated hours — and may also be exempted from the provision of work between 20 hours and 7 hours the following day, where this may affect his or her health and safety. Moreover, the worker is not obliged to provide additional work. The employer shall facilitate employment to workers with reduced working capacity by providing them with adequate working conditions, including the adaptation of the job and the aid and promotion of vocational training and improvement measures appropriate to the patient's situation. The worker with disabilities or chronic illness is also preferred for admission to part-time work. All the cancer survivors are, well, framed here. We have no doubt that these survivors have suffered a lot and, even if they have survived, the impact on their long-term health exists, so this issue must be — and must be — well analysed. however, we must also take into account that we cannot benefit from a disease to the detriment of others equally quite incapacitating. The Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have always been sensitive to these issues and will continue to work towards ensuring the operationalization of existing measures and creating others that effectively improve the quality of life of these people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u62	The next intervention lies with Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD, whom I give the floor to.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word will be to greet the more than 8,000 petitioners who, in the exercise of their citizenship, brought to the discussion a number of legislative amendments with a view to the consecration of a fair time of service for cancer survivors. The admissibility note of this petition provides the legislative framework for this matter either under the Labour Code or in specific legislation, such as the special disability protection regime. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone has the right to decent work and it is important to give hope and guarantee to people who have suffered and have overcome an oncological disease the possibility of having an active professional life, with the guarantee of working conditions according to their physical and psychological abilities. The Social Democratic Party is concerned about cancer patients, we are sensitive to these issues, we are aware that there is a long way to go in terms of reconciling professional life with reducing capacity for work. Conscious that cancer is one of the diseases with a tendency to worsen in the future, as referred to in the official document Oncological Diseases in numbers — 2015, so it is important to make a concerted political and social approach, duly assessed in the context of social consultation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group understands the concerns of the petitioners and will not fail to follow this matter, aware of the need for a greater balance between the limitations of capacities for work and the exercise of their professional activity. We talk about survivors, disease fighters, people who want to maintain an active professional life, regardless of the consequences of cancer. Mr President, it should be noted that the Social Democratic Party has submitted a request to the Health Committee for the establishment of a working group for the monitoring of oncological diseases, because we recognize the relevance of this matter, a requirement which has been approved unanimously. I end with a sentence included in the petition’s text: “It is not enough to give ‘ years to life, ’ but it is crucial to give ‘ life to years’.” It is essential that these people overcome their own illness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u64	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this speech by complimenting and greeting the petitioners present here, but also all those who have signed this petition. These petitioners call for legislative amendments to be made with a view to consecrating the fair time of service for the cancer survivor. The petitioners support these claims in the side effects resulting from the prolonged treatments to which they are subject. Indeed, in the text accompanying this petition, there are several examples of the effects of prolonged treatment. We could classify them largely in three categories: in physical effects, in psychic effects and also in emotional effects. They also say that — it is also mentioned in the report — these patients are subject to enormous difficulties at professional and financial level. Mrs. Members, if it is true that legislation, including labour legislation, includes some of the aspects of adaptability of the working time condition to the condition of the patient, the reality that these patients feel in practice is that the realization and assumption of this right are often inconceivable. The reality of everyday life shows these patients who survive cancer, as it shows other chronic patients that there is a gap between what is in the law and practice of everyday life. Furthermore, the CFP has made several interventions and promoted the presentation of concrete proposals to ensure that what is in the legislation is an effective right. It is also mentioned that difficulties are even more difficult in patients with advanced cancer. It is necessary — and the CFP recognises that the issues of work and social protection are at the heart of a deep reflection in order to respond to the needs that exist. Better working conditions, reconciliation of work with the condition of the patient and treatment must be ensured. On the assessment of the conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities, I would like here to recall that the CFP presented, within the State budget, a proposal which provided that the Government, together with representative organisations that reflect on these matters, find conditions for access to reform, considering specific needs that were identified. However, this proposal was rejected by the PS, but also by the abstention of the PSD. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u66	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and the petitioners who bring this matter to Parliament and who have also had the opportunity to hear in committee. In fact, the purpose of cancer treatment is to prolong the life of the patient, but it is part of a process in which the possibility to resume their life in conditions of greater normality is essential. As is said in the petition, when a treatment ends, a process of restructuring is initiated both physically and psychologically and socially. The concerns of cancer survivors are related to the disease, to the fear of recurrence, to the sequelae, but also to the uncertainty about the future, to the fear of social rejection, to the difficulty of regaining, under the same conditions, their activities and their work. Therefore, as is also said in the petition, beyond the years of life that treatment can confer, it is necessary to give quality of life to these years. The questions of work and the conditions under which it is provided are central to this. As has already been said, it is true that there are rules in labour legislation that already provide that workers in these circumstances may have special conditions to be exempted, for example, from shift or extended work hours or that they relate to the adaptability or adaptation of their own work. It is also true that there is a framework in legislation for people with different degrees of disability, but it is also true — we all know that this is the case — that many of these rules are not fully implemented. We know that often for people who are in these circumstances the conditions are not created to be able to resume their work and employment under possible conditions. It is also true that, more than taking as a criterion disease or a disease, the criterion must be the degree of disability and the consequences that any disease — certainly the cancer between them, and significantly — leaves in people. We therefore recognise that the adaptation of the job either with regard to its functions or with regard to its schedules is very important, but it is not sufficiently guaranteed. We must therefore work on the conditions laid down by law so that it is possible to maintain a link with work in a manner adapted to the conditions of survivors and survivors of cancer. There is currently a working group that is discussing changes to labour legislation. We believe that these issues should be considered in this working group. The Left Block will present initiatives in this regard. In addition, we have proposed in particular in the Budgets, as happened in the discussion of the last State budget, rules guaranteeing early retirement for people with a disability of 60 % or more. In fact, there is at this time a petition which has entered this House of the Republic for this subject to be discussed again. in the context of this budget, we had a discussion on early retirement for rapid wear and tear professions. It seems to us precisely that, taking into account the model that exists for the professions of rapid wear and tear, the possibility of anticipating the personal retirement age depending on the years in which people are working in these professions can be a good way to anticipate the retirement age of people who are survivors of cancer, i.e. that there is a personal retirement age, which takes account of the life paths of people. It is also in this respect that we will engage here in Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u68	We have reached the end of this point of our agenda. The sixth point, to which no time is allocated for discussion, is followed on motion for a resolution No 77/ XIII/4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Extradition Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, signed in Lisbon, on 25 October 2017. We therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Those who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence record, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. In the meantime, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will provide information to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1965 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the Second Parliamentary Commission for Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the honourable Members who have just come in to do the favor of registering quickly. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 192 presences to which 9 are added by the Members. Members Hugo Pires, Isabel Alves Moreira, João Soares, Jorge Lacão and Odete João, PS, Luís Marques Guedes and Teresa Leal Coelho, PSD and Cecilia Meireles and Vania Dias da Silva, CDS-PP, performing 201 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 722 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PAN, and BE ) — Unfortunately, in recalling the Holocaust Memory Day, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On January 27, the International Day of Memory of the Holocaust is signed worldwide, a date chosen by the United Nations for having a remarkable meaning, the date on which the liberation of the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz by the Soviet Union troops took place in 1945. As a historical event, and as emphasized by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which, among us, instituted the Day of Memory, the Holocaust radically questions all the values in which human civilization is based: respect for the life, equality and dignity of all human beings, compassion and fraternity, responsibility for the other, individual and collective freedom. however, Auschwitz was not so far away, nor so long ago. Even though they are less and less survivors who, in the first person, can make a sense of the horror that has hit Europe, they separate us from the tragic events of persecution and extermination less than a century. And over just 74 years, we have witnessed an increase in the phenomena of anti-Semitism, racial hatred, homophobia, refusal of the other, whether foreign or different, and we have witnessed the escalation of the Holocaust's negational speeches and the lives of its victims. The memory of all those who have lost their lives and the future of the defence of the values of our democracies unites in marking this date, which aims to prevent forgetting and promote the education of younger generations in the observance of fundamental values, freedom, equality and human dignity. Since the institution of January 27 as Holocaust Memory Day that the Assembly of the Republic is associated with the commemoration, assuming the decisive role that parliamentary institutions must play in preserving collective memory and in defending the values on which democracy is based. This mission must continue, in the first line, to refuse the extremisms that feed on hatred and that prefer to hide and forget the lessons of the past. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays its tribute to all victims of the Holocaust, renewing its commitment not to forget and to, preserving memory, defending the fundamental values of humanity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First, I inform you that the President of the Assembly of the Republic is associated with this vote and, secondly, I inform the House that, in order to witness the reading and voting of this vote of regret, in recalling the Holocaust Memory Day, they are in the gallery members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited in Lisbon, representatives of the Israeli Community of Lisbon and MEMOSHOÁ (The Holocaust Memory and Teaching Association) as well as other guests. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 724 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS members ) — Despite the catastrophe in the city of Brumadinho, in the state of Minas Gerais, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u73	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last January 25, the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais was hit by the terrible tragedy that resulted from the rupture of the Mina do Feijão dam in the city of Brumadinho, and that caused the death of 99 people, the disappearance of 259 others, the eviction of more than 150 families and the devastation of hundreds of thousands of hectares of vegetation of Mata Atlantica. This accident is so much more serious when it occurs in circumstances close to those recorded in the town of Bento Rodrigues in 2015 in the state of Minas Gerais. in such a short space of time, this Brazilian state witnesses two of the most serious tragedies within its territory, with dramatic human and environmental consequences for thousands of Brazilians, who deserve our deep support and solidarity. at this time of pain and suffering, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep sorrow to the bereaved families and friends of the victims and expresses its deep solidarity with the Brazilian authorities and the brother people of Brazil. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let us then vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 714 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members ), regretting and condemning the death of protesters in Venezuela, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic has accompanied, with deep concern, the deepening of the political, economic and social crisis in Venezuela, with very strong effects on the living conditions of the weaker sectors of its society. Venezuela has lived consecutive days of demonstrations for the democratic transition and the leader of the National Assembly self-proclaimed himself as acting President of the country. According to the data advanced by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights ( Inter-American Commission on Human Rights ), the repression of protests by Venezuelan security forces has already caused several deaths and dozens of injuries on the streets of the country and hundreds of these protesters have already been arrested. It is stressed that the second largest Portuguese and Luso-descendant community in Latin America resides in Venezuela, which exceeds 400,000 people. Portugal has to do everything within its power to ensure its well-being and safety. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of protesters in Venezuela and calls for a peaceful resolution that safeguards the security of the great Portuguese and Luso-descendant community in Venezuela, that respects and recognizes the democratic mandate of the National Assembly and its President Juan Guaidó and that restores democratic normality through free elections in Venezuela. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u76	Let's vote the vote that just got read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against the favour of getting up. [[At the moment, the members of the BE, the CFP and the Greens have risen.]] [[What a shame! What a shame!]] [[What a shame! What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u77	Shame is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u78	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain, please stand up. [[Pause.]] With no abstention, I ask you to stand up. Members who vote in favour. [[Currently, the PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira rose.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote was approved. He voted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, and had votes against BE, PCP and Les Verdes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 721 / XIII 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Of solidarity for the peaceful and democratic resolution of the situation in Venezuela, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: [["The political, economic and social situation in Venezuela is unsustainable. Last week, the political crisis came to an impasse when, during the mobilization of thousands of people on the streets in protest, the President of the National Assembly, Juan Guaidó, took the interim presidency of the country until the convening of new presidential elections. The violent response of the authorities to the protests has already affected dozens of people, and the use of force against peaceful protests is unacceptable and totally condemned.]] in this context of instability, to which is added the serious social and economic crisis of the country that has been dragging for years, it is essential that the resolution of the political conflict take place by democratic means, in a peaceful process and without interference. This is the way in which the European Union and Portugal have appealed. The countries of the European Union reiterated the lack of recognition of the presidential elections of May as free and fair, confirmed their confidence in the legitimacy of the National Assembly and called for the rapid convening of elections that would represent democratic legitimacy and political stability to the country. Portugal and Venezuela have ties of friendship and cooperation for many years, expressed by the community of more than half a million Portuguese and Luso-descendant residents of Venezuela. Due to the serious humanitarian crisis, with a shortage of food and medicine, more than three million people have already left the country, including thousands of Portuguese. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns acts of violence that have victimized dozens of people in peaceful protest, conveying its sorrow and solidarity to their families; expresses its full solidarity with the Portuguese community resident in Venezuela, recognizing the importance of the measures that the Portuguese Government has implemented for the support and follow-up of our community; and accompanies the European Union's call for a peaceful and democratic resolution of the conflict, considering that only holding elections can resolve the current political conflict. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u80	Let's vote the vote that just got read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against the favour of getting up. [[The Members of the CFP and the Greens have now risen.]] [[What a shame!]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u81	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain, please stand up. [[The BE Members have now risen.]] [[What a shame!]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u82	I'm asking you to stand up. Members who vote in favour. [[Currently, the PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira rose.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote was approved. He voted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and the abstention of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u83	We will proceed to vote No 723 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the new coup and the campaign for destabilization and aggression against Venezuela affecting its people and the Portuguese community in this country. I call on Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and the Venezuelan people have been victims of a continued action of destabilization and aggression, attempts at coup d'état, boycotts, landing and speculation, violence and terrorism, sanctions, economic, financial, political and diplomatic blockade, illegal confiscation of goods and financial resources in the value of tens of billions of dollars and even the threat of military intervention by the United States of America — which is the basis of problems of the Venezuelan economy and of difficulties faced by its people and the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese community in this country. Currently there is a new orchestrated coup and led by the United States of America which, through the « self-proclaimation» of a ghost president — promoted by Trump and soon supported by Bolsonaro and others — in the face of the constitutional order of Venezuela, the rule of democratic law and the normal functioning of the institutions, seeks to remove the legitimate President Nicolás Maduro, elected, free and democratically, according to the will expressed by the Venezuelan people. The defence of the national interests and of the Portuguese community in Venezuela requires that Portugal and the Portuguese Government base their relations with Venezuela and its legitimate government on respect for the UN Charter and international law and not on a follow-up attitude of the European Union and the most reactionary circles aligned with the unacceptable coupist destabilization operation against that country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the coup, the blockade, the confiscation of goods and the repeated threats of military intervention by the United States of America against Venezuela ; stresses that only an attitude of respect for the right of the Venezuelan people to decide their future, without external interference, will contribute to ensuring the normalization of the situation and safeguarding the interests of the Portuguese community in Venezuela, in particular its security ; and urges the Government to take a sovereign stance that is guided by rejection and non-alignment with the escalation of interference and aggression directed by the United States of America and supported by the European Union against Venezuela. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against the favour of getting up. [[Currently, the PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira rose.]] [[PCP protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain, please stand up. [[The BE Members have now risen.]] [[What a shame!]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u86	I'm asking you to stand up. Members who vote in favour. [[The Members of the CFP and the Greens have now risen.]] [[What a shame! What a shame!]] [[What a shame! What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent so that the Bureau can announce the result of the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the vote has been rejected,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u88	When is it to condemn terrorism...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u89	... having, although voting against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens, and the abstention of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u90	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u91	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u92	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will deliver a statement of vote on the last three votes. Open... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u93	... to satisfy the general curiosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u94	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u95	Mr President, I have just asked for the floor to inform you that the Greens Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u96	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 715 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Of praise for the concession of the Ferrel brand, the Capital of the Fight against Nuclear to the Ferrel parish. I call on Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « We were in March 1976 and Portugal lived a post-revolutionary and pre-electional period, when the imminent 'first environmental conflict of democracy' called the people of Ferrel for the united street against the installation of a nuclear power plant for the production of electricity. Ferrel, parish of Peniche, mobilized himself in a genuinely popular march and, in protest, was heard, preventing the construction of the central project. This effective fight against the option for nuclear energy is a historic legacy and an undeniable milestone in the collective memory of this people and, in transposing the local context, has played an important role at the forefront of environmental movements and in the awakening of ecological consciousness in contemporary Portuguese society. In 2018, the right recognition arises for the struggle of the people of Ferrel : by Dispatch of the National Institute of Industrial Property, was granted the Ferrel brand, Capital of the Fight against Nuclear. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates the parish of Ferrel for the conquest of the Ferrel brand, Capital of the Fight against Nuclear, recognizing the importance of this legacy for Portuguese society. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 718 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PAR, PSD, PS, and CDS-PP ) — Congratulations on the Lisbon decision for the World Youth Days of 2022. I call on Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last January 27, at the closing Mass of World Youth Days, which took place in Panama City, was announced by Pope Francis that the 2022 days will take place in Lisbon. The World Youth Days, instituted by Pope John Paul II on 20 December 1985, are a religious event, lasting about a week, bringing together millions of Catholics from all over the world, especially young people. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic, welcomes the choice of Lisbon to host the next World Youth Days of 2022. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and Abstaining from BE and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u101	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u102	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u103	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u104	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u105	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u106	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u107	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u108	It is also registered, Mrs. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1802 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service, including authorities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1941 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 1635 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] The last two draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1607 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government quickly conclude the negotiation process of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1942 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Human resources planning in the health sector. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on a request submitted by the PS, within the meaning of draft resolution No 1939 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — National Investment Programme down to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote for 30 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1931 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends the adoption of measures guaranteeing the access of all public transport users to the programme to support tariff reduction in pendulum movements. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u109	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u110	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u111	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-01.u112	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1862 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of the High School of Portela ( Arc-Iris ) in the municipality of Loures. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the Non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Deputies of PS Diogo León, Pedro Delgado Alves and Susana Amador and the PS abstention.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1863 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of School EB 2, 3 Gaspar Correia, in Loures County. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and PS Diogo Leon, Pedro Delgado Alves and Susana Amador and PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on an application, submitted by the NAP, was followed in the sense of Bill No. 1073 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the health technical profession to be brought down to the Committee on Labour and Social Security without a vote for 60 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1788 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the national multiple sclerosis register ( NMR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1664 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the implementation of a common, uniform and comparable hospital registry in the National Health Service of people with multiple sclerosis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1813 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a national registry on multiple sclerosis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 829 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establish criteria for non-emergency transport of patients. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 805 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Exemption from non-emergency payment of patients ( tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Still on the same subject, we will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 887 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Non-emergency transport of patients. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 929 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — eliminates the deadline for dismantling end-of-life vehicles in slaughter centres ( amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1075 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — End of one year to dismantle vehicles in certified centres. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1872 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government update the school insurance regulation to include accidents occurring with motor-free speeds. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote on draft resolution No 1927 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Extension of the scope of coverage of school insurance for bicycle travel. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1940 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing road risk on bicycle users. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 77 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Extradition Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, signed in Lisbon, on 25 October 2017. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Law No 940 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Ends with the possibility of suspending the retirement condition of judicial judges for the exercise of the functions of arbitrator in tax matters ( fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Tax Arbitration ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, it remains to be announced that the plenary meeting of Wednesday, 6 February, is devoted to the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. We are thus at the end of our work. I wish everyone a very good weekend and thank you for your cooperation. [[It was 12 hours and 26 minutes.]]
