ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, the motion for a resolution No 90 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Multilateral Convention for the Implementation of Measures on Tax Conventions to Prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission. I also refer to Bill Nos 1189 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ) — Procedures for the authentic interpretation of Article 1041(7). the Civil Code, added by Article 2. the Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February establishing measures to correct situations of imbalance between tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban lease and to protect tenants in a situation of particular fragility, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1191 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Obligations all sexual aggressors to the frequency of rehabilitation programmes, which falls to 1. the Commission. Finally, the following Resolution Projects were entered in the Bureau: No 2093 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the implementation of measures to defend national milk production, which falls to 7. the Commission ; No 2094 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — By setting up a public dredging company which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 2095 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of compensation supplements and other royalties of risk, penosity and insanity, which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 10. the Commission ; point 2096 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work at the André de Gouveia High School in Évora and removes all existing fibrosis in its construction; No 2097 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro in the municipality of Seixal ; No 2098 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to defend the textile and clothing sector in the Ave and Cávado regions, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 2099 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of the Valongo Secondary School ; No 2100 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Emergency intervention at EB School 2, 3 D. António Ferreira Gomes, in Ermesinde, Valongo ; No 2101 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Basic School António Ferreira Gomes, Grouping of Ermesinde Schools ; No 2102 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of missing professionals in the Hospital Pharmaceutical Services of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission ; points 2103 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government that the value added tax charged on fund-raising campaigns by telephone be returned directly to the cause itself which closes the campaign, which goes down to 5. the Commission ; points 2104 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Action plan to monitor, control and eliminate woody invasive species, in particular in the protected areas and in areas covered by fires, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 2105 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government immediately remove all asbestos fibre covers existing in the Basic School 2 But of Covilhã ; and No 2106/ XIII/4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Naples. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first item on today's agenda consists of political statements, with the order of the speeches of the parliamentary groups as follows: PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PSD. Mr Margarida Marques spoke for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS today brings to this House some of the points that help us to understand the situation and evolution of the Portuguese economy in the world context. According to the projections released yesterday by the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ), Portugal will continue to grow above the euro area and the European Union - Portugal grows 1, 7 %, the euro area increases 1, 3 % and the European Union grows 1, 6 %. This is good news. For the third consecutive year, Portugal converges with Europe after years and years of divergence. Some will say that economic growth in Portugal is revised downwards. It's true, there's a lot of international uncertainties that got into the air. But it is also true that the downward review for Portuguese economic growth is of the least pronounced, both of our euro area partners and of the European Union Member States as a whole, and of advanced economies. The International Monetary Fund is responsible for all these forecasts in this regular report. The fact is that the International Monetary Fund has lowered economic growth for Portugal by only one tenth — 1, 8 % in October and 1, 7 % now. In the euro area the review was six times lower and in the European Union four times. It is also true that the Portuguese economy slows down its growth: 2, 1 % in 2018, and 1, 7 % in 2019. But in the European landscape and even in the most advanced economies, Portugal will be at a lower rate of slowdown than most countries expect. All euro area countries have slowed down, with the exception of Greece, and Portugal is the third country with the lowest economic slowdown. Conclusion : Portugal is better prepared for adversity and for the uncertainties that the world crosses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, even today, we have had a fact that shows the robustness of the Portuguese economy in the transaction of selling debt worth EUR 1000 million. In the 10-year debt, EUR 600 million, the lowest interest rate was 1, 143 %, with a demand of 2, 2 times higher than the offer. The IMF has already warned that 70% of the world is slowing down. And it identifies risks that if they materialize, they make the world economy grow even less — that is where the European Union and the Portuguese Government are and must act. I highlight three of these risks. First, trade tensions continue to be a concern. There have been advances in relations between the United States of America and China, but there are still very results dependent on the negotiation process. Here, the strategic function of European trade policy will be highlighted. Positive progress has been made in European trade policy, which continues to be robust and is a fundamental lever for the growth and projection of European economies, particularly Portuguese, where exports reach nearly half of the gross domestic product ( GDP) today. The right says that the government has not made structural reforms. Now, there is a structural reform: the consolidation of our economy as an open and fully integrated economy in globalisation, a dynamic and export economy, with intelligence and strategy. We depend less and less on a single market, as was the case in the years of Steps and Doors. Yesterday, the European Union-China Summit agreed on a joint declaration (at the last summit there had been differences so there was no final declaration ), in which both parties commit themselves to a very clear progress towards establishing a comprehensive investment agreement already next year that guarantees market access and the removal of barriers to foreign investors — which mainly affect European investors in China. Trade agreements should also be signed with Japan, Singapore, Vietnam or New Zealand, dynamic and upward economies that now have the open doors to European exports and investment, notably Portuguese. We therefore have new markets, more opportunities, less dependence on traditional markets and their economic fluctuations. A second risk relates to the following: the Fund's projections take on growth in the euro area, supported in a scenario that avoids a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. We know that what we say today about Brexit may not be able to repeat it tomorrow... With regard to Brexit, it is important to say that we do not know whether today the European Council will decide to set a short, medium or long-term date of departure. But we are ready, we have taken all contingency measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u5	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. Portugal, in the context of the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union, between January 2017 and November 2018, mobilized 26 investment projects from the United Kingdom, which resulted in the creation of 22 companies, with an investment of EUR 450 million that created 1400 jobs — these are data from the Financial Times.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u8	One last risk has to do with populist movements. This means that we need to persist on the path that we have followed in this and the next legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u9	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u10	... combining investment, with economic growth, job creation and strengthening social rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u11	Four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The first is Mr Leitão Amaro of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Margarida Marques, when I heard you talk about the evaluation and the worrying outlook of the IMF, I thought that Mrs Margarida Marques came here to apologize. I came here, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to apologize to the Portuguese for disenfranchising one of the best external economic conditions the country has had in recent decades and for, having wasted, being leaving the country not only to slow down but even to stand back in front of all the countries with which we compare ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u14	I thought the honourable Member would apologize for today's confession—and now that he quoted the Financial Times—of Minister Centeno who confessed: "We did not end austerity".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u16	I thought that the honourable Member came here to apologize for not turning from the austerity page, after all, it was a turning to a worse page, with a maximum tax burden, the greatest of all, a minimum public investment, the lowest of all, and public services at least, providing a worse and worse service to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u18	I thought the honourable Member was here to apologize for disenfranchising the opportunity to make reforms. They fell asleep, in the shadow of the reforms made by the previous government and of the historically favourable external environment. The gentlemen fell asleep and the country paid, staying behind. It is true that we are no longer in bankruptcy, to which you have taken the country. Fortunately, the Portuguese, with our help, took us out of there when you only asked for more time and more money and made more like Greece. They could also apologize for asking us to be like Greece a few years ago. Today, they should apologize to the Portuguese, because all that Portugal's evaluations, retrospectives and expectations tell us is that, in relation to productivity, we have fallen; in relation to the tax burden, we have the maximum record of always; in relation to the per capita wealth, we are, year after year, with your government, to stay behind, having been exceeded by one, by two, by three and by four...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u19	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. With you, we are always being overcome and staying behind. So, honourable Member, the question I ask you is this: do you or do you not apologize to the Portuguese for having missed an opportunity that should not have been lost? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u21	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u22	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, I would like to thank you for the subject that brought the debate. In fact, European matters are very important, the more they delineate much of what Portuguese policy is. On this point, the honourable Member mentioned the growth of the Portuguese economy in recent times, but it is no more to remember that there has been a recovery of the economy, a recovery of income, wages and pensions precisely because we went to the grip of what has been European policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u24	... in particular because we have been against the measures that have been followed with regard to the budgetary treaty. If we had continued on this path, it would not have been possible today's path and this reflection was not clear in its intervention, so it left this first question. A second question, which is of particular importance to us at the moment because during this year we will have two decisive elections for something that has also been mentioned, has to do with the European budget. Madam Member, it is time for the Socialist Party to say, indeed, what comes to the European budget. We know — and we have already had the opportunity to discuss — that the proposal for the next European budget clearly has the priorities exchanged, withdrawing cohesion from militarism. We have already had this debate, but what we know is that there has been an agreement between PS and PSD to accept, supposedly, these changed priorities, which do not benefit the people. It is therefore necessary to understand what the Socialist Party is coming from and what position it will take in this context, because it has this opportunity. We know that the new European Parliament will have to decide on the next European budget and we also know that in Portugal we will have to make a decision on the next European budget. Question : What is the Socialist Party coming to? Will you maintain the agreement in principle with the PSD on these priorities, which are exchanged and which do not benefit the people, or, once and for all, will you have a clear policy of rejection, both of the budget treaty and of the priorities that are included in the new European budget, which will defend them to withdraw from cohesion? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u25	In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u26	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Leitão Amaro for his question and suggesting that instead of listening to the translation of the article on the statements of Minister Mário Centeno, read the Financial Times version. Mr President, at least you read English as well as I do and therefore do not take a word away from you so you can say what has been said on the radio! [[PSD protests.]] Indeed, what Mário Centeno said was that the reversals were not dramatic. He's talking about reversals! And that's not what's being said.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u27	Dramatic does not translate into the letter, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u28	So I suggest that you read what the Financial Times published. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u29	On the other hand, you must apologize to the Portuguese! You must apologize to the Portuguese for your austerity policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u30	All right! [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u31	... must apologize to the Portuguese for the way they left the financial system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u33	... must apologize to the Portuguese for the systematic threat they have made and for the instability they have always sought to create in Portugal, in Portuguese, and in European institutions. That's why you have to apologize. It is not the Socialist Party that has to apologize, because no apology is made when we are growing above the euro zone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u35	... even when investment in Portugal has been growing above the European Union average nine consecutive quarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u37	We do not apologize, because job creation has been a constant and because we have created more than 350 000 net jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u39	We do not apologize, because the unemployment rate has fallen to about half of what you left us. So if there's anyone who has to apologize, it's actually the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u41	I thank Mrs Isabel Pires for her questions, but our answer is very clear and I think she has been visible throughout the entire legislature. In fact, the government's policy was the one that the government intended to develop, making its proposals pass on in relation to the European institutions. I quote the case of the national minimum wage. The European Commission recommended that Portugal do not increase the national minimum wage, but the Portuguese Government has increased it because it felt that under European rules it had the right to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u42	Because you had the deal to increase it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u43	Who rules in Portugal is the Portuguese Government, chosen by the Portuguese, not the European institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u44	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Margarida Marques, began the political declaration to talk about prospects for economic growth and we know that for Portugal there is a outlook for economic growth slower than for what was anticipated. Madam Member, this will naturally result from the external factors you have mentioned, but it also depends on internal factors that the government can influence and which is in the hands of the government to control. Among the factors that condition economic growth is public investment. As you know very well today, public investment is low and insufficient, it is about 2 % of GDP when it should be at least 5 % of GDP to ensure sustained and robust growth. The government's option was not for the significant increase in investment, but for the accelerated reduction of the public deficit. In 2019, as you know, the deficit was about one percentage point below what was originally planned, if we take into account the aid to the New Bank, which is about EUR 2000 million. When we see that the real deficit in 2018 was about EUR 2000 million below what the government itself had foreseen at the beginning of 2019, we understand why public investment is so low and why it is insufficient for the development needs of the country. I would like to ask you whether the PS and its Government intend to change their policy on public investment, if they are to put aside the obsession with the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit and if they are to concentrate the Government's energies and resources on increasing public investment, which in turn would boost more appropriate economic growth. Are the PS and its government going to drop this obsession by the deficit and concentrate their energies on increasing public investment or are they going to continue with this obsession, sacrificing public investment and many other things to meet the European Union's demands? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u46	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Margarida Marques, in the CDS we have never had any illusions about apologies from the Socialist Party. As for a party that has led the country to bankruptcy as it has led, which has created the cases of national scandal which it has created and which remains silent about its past, in fact, we have no illusions as to the possibility of apologizing. Madam Member, I can't help but tell you that today's speech is the demonstration of the end of the cycle, it's an end of cycle speech! We know that a government and a party are at the end of the cycle when they go to the Portuguese saying: “ The country is falling, but it has fallen a little bit. We were expecting it to go better. It went wrong, but it wasn't that bad after all! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is a sign of a government and a party completely at the end of the cycle. In the week when estimates for Portugal's growth are known, below those that were expected and which represent a 40% fall in growth, if we look, for example, at the growth we had in 2017, does the honourable Member come to tell the Portuguese that it was a little bit? Madam Member, little has been the victory the Socialist Party had in the elections to the European Parliament and has given what it has given. I hope that in the next elections, the Socialist Party will be the first to precipitate changes such as those which it rushed in the past. The honourable Member comes here to talk about Europe and has just practically one sentence for Brexit in the last few minutes of her speech. at this moment, this is the big question mark we have in our country and, as the Assembly of the Republic should do, it is to monitor the action of the government, I ask: what has the government done to prepare the Brexit? What you've done, you've done wrong and you're late! When we had the European Council to ask the Member States to prepare contingency plans in March 2018... [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]] Yes, yes, ma'am. In March 2018, governments at the European Council asked Member States to prepare contingency plans. What did our government do? He's sleeping! Who did studies to prepare exit scenarios for Brexit? They're coming from the private initiative. What do we know about the government? Nothing, Mrs. Member. In fact, the honourable Member knows what the statements made by the Secretary of State for Food to the Members on the preparation of Brexit were: there was no need to prepare anything because what was to be prepared was done at European level! I would like to know whether this is the position of the Socialist Party, i.e. whether it continues to believe that the Portuguese Government has nothing to prepare strictly because all preparations have to be made within the European framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u48	Mr President, you really have to conclude, because you have already exceeded your time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u49	Mr. President, I will finish. I believe that this is a very bad sign and that it is the full demonstration that what this government has done to prepare Brexit has done wrong and it has been late. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u50	In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u51	Mr President, I am also grateful for these questions and start by answering Mr Paulo Sá. Indeed, the investment between 2016 and 2018 increased by 25 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u52	From when? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u53	... and between 2017 and 2018 grew 12%. This government has been guided by good public accounts and, indeed, the reduction of debt cost has led to increased investment in education and health. In view of the macroeconomic scenarios that we know, as I said yesterday, the International Monetary Fund has presented, our concern is to have certain public accounts and healthy accounts that enable us to deal with international situations that may be more favourable to us. I have just said exactly that this means that we need to persist on this path, combining investment, economic growth, job creation and strengthening social rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u54	But the investment doesn't show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u55	Where's the investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u56	Mr Anacoreta Correia raised the issue of Brexit and the contingency plan. The time available does not allow me to repeat all the answers I have already given you on these issues, but I think it is necessary to realize that the Government has made the necessary steps to first protect the Portuguese who live in the United Kingdom and support the British who live in Portugal ; secondly, it has negotiated in the European Union with the 26 / 27 Member States to find a good exit agreement from the United Kingdom of the European Union and a future relationship agreement that amplifies that exit ; and thirdly, it has developed a strategy to mobilise British investment or foreign investment in the United Kingdom for Portugal. Regarding this last year, I give just one example : Portugal mobilized 26 investment projects that led to the creation of 22 companies in the country. It was 458 million euros and 1400 jobs created only of investment projects that Portugal mobilized in the United Kingdom and brought to our country. This is important because we have to understand what it means for the European Union, the United Kingdom and Portugal to leave the United Kingdom of the European Union. That is why today's European Council is very important, and that is why the position of Portugal and the Portuguese Prime Minister in this European Council is intended to give the United Kingdom the time needed to establish an agreement that will allow for an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u57	For a political declaration, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not new and it is news too — wage inequalities continue to be shocking in Portugal and Europe. Yesterday, we learned that, according to the latest data, the executive presidents of the largest Portuguese companies earned, on average, EUR 1 million—there are those who won much more! — and, in general, they have a salary 52 times above the wages of the workers of the same companies. In Sonae, Paulo Azevedo won in one year what an official of Sonae with average salary receives at the end of 37 years of work. If this Sonae worker earns the minimum wage, he will have to work 77 years to earn the same as the company manager. There is also the case of Jerome Martins. On average, a worker in the group who has Pinko Doce has to work 140 years to earn what the company manager earns. But if we're talking about a worker from the Pingo Doce box who receives the minimum wage, she would have to work 226 years to win the same as Pedro Soares dos Santos won last year. It would have to have five long contributory careers in order to be able to combine the piece of the company's wealth that Pedro Soares dos Santos collects for himself every year. Five whole working lives, 226 years working, 40 hours a week, every month, every year. Five lives! And yet, Soares dos Santos would earn a little more than that worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u59	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u60	These inequalities would be serious and offensive on their own, but in addition to the concrete facts revealed yesterday, there is a trend, and we know what it is. In the last decade, wage disparity has increased aggressively and, during the period of the crisis, specifically in Portugal, while workers' wages remained stagnant or even were cut off, managers' salaries increased 40 % in the same companies. If we compare today's data with 2014, the year in which the crisis was installed, the average of managers' wages continued to rise — more than 300 000 € than then — as well as inequality within companies, from 33 to 52 times the value of the average wage. We already know that there are many ways to tackle this problem: with tax measures and with collective bargaining; with policies for the distribution of wealth and with rules on the internal functioning of companies in the fixing of wages; with the exclusion of State support and preventing these companies from participating in stoppages; or, then, with the establishment of maximum wage leques, as the Block has already proposed in this Parliament. For our part, we all prefer because the more effective combined these measures will be. But there is one that is useless: the verbal outrage of occasion to disguise the lack of political will to take concrete action. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In September of last year, six months ago, the Bloc brought the debate to a bill that defined mechanisms for transparency in wages and the fixing of a maximum wage gap, the proportion of which would be for the government to define to combat these wage inequalities. We brought to the plenary at the time the visual image of the absurd and unjustifiable disproportion of wages, with a human-scale manager comparing it with the graphic representation of workers who could only be seen in the magnifying glass. Every day, reality shows how urgent an amendment is needed and how this amendment cannot dispense with the law, as we always defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u62	In fact, having rejected this House's legislation on this matter, PS, PSD and CDS are complicating, from that moment on, the inequalities that have worsened, because the time we have lost since September is the benefit of the managers who pay supersonic wages paid to these managers at the expense of what is not paid to whom the company's wealth truly does every day. The arguments used to lead this measure to combat inequality were, however, revealing the strength of our proposal. PSD and CDS shook two ghosts: a proposal like this would be a « bisbilotic» and a « wage striptease», I quoted, and would lead, secondly, to the relocation of companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u63	That's right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u64	None of the arguments take. The duty of information on wage inequalities is already in the law for the companies of the PSI-20 (Portuguese Stock Index) — that is why we have the data we have — and the law for the generality of companies is the duty of information on gender inequality. On the question of relocation, this phantom, what do you intend to suggest with this argument? Oh, my God! That the CTT or the EDP, which have their market here and their counters, will distribute mail or electricity to Cochinchina if we fix a maximum salary ceiling? Oh, my God! We know they're not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u65	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u66	The Socialist Party's argument was different. The PS members argued that they were in favour of the principle and the idea, but that they voted against the proposal, because they would have to discuss it with the employers in social consultation. The draft of the Block — it is good to remember — conferred on the Government the power to set the reference salary range and, if it had been approved, the Government would have time to make the consultations it understood, but it would be obliged to do them today to carry out this measure on the basis of them. Therefore, the argumentary called for a pure apology, but the bill of the Block had its effect: the Socialist Party, embarrassed by its own position, presented a recommendation to the Government for it to move forward with a measure similar to what the Block had proposed. This debate was done here last January. We then adopted a recommendation to the Government that it, after consulting the social partners, define a mechanism for the proportional limitation of wage disparity within each organisation, whether public or private. That's what we approved. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: has anyone heard from any consultation held in the meantime? Has the Government sought to schedule this issue in the context of social consultation? For our part, of the knowledge we have, no. Or at least not yet. Until you see, nothing has been done. Only inequality has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u67	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a debate about justice, about inequalities with which democracy cannot live. For our part, we will not allow it to fall back into forgetfulness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u69	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification and Mr Soeiro has informed the Bureau that he will answer two to two. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u70	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, today brought the debate the concern about wage inequalities. First of all, I want to say that the CDS is particularly concerned with low incomes and, contrary to what you think, the solution is not to penalise those who earn the most, but to improve the lives of those who earn the least, to improve the incomes of those who earn the least. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] What the CDS recognizes is something that makes you very hives. It is that we know the importance of the economy and private enterprises, as well as the concept of economic freedom, with which you, purely ideological prejudice, deal badly. Now, what we know is that, with your proposals in some way, you behave almost as if they were the owners of all companies and the whole economy, as if by decree these companies would create wealth! The solutions that you are defending are also known and proven. See how countries have been destroyed after countries. See what happened to Venezuela. See what happened to Albania. See what happened to the former Soviet Union, the whole Soviet Block! [[BE's protests.]] The solutions that you are defending are those! Be clear. You defend all measures, including taxes. However, the maximum rate of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) is already 48 %. What are you defending? Increase to 60 %, 70 %, 80 %, 90 %? Is that your proposal? Oh, my God! It is not surprising that, at the end of almost four years of government, supported by you, the Block now appears to make these proclamations, seeking to justify its existence. The same Block that supported Budget after Budget! [[BE's protests.]] Is the same Block that supported Budget after Budget now presenting these concerns?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u71	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u72	Don't you think it's little to introduce at the end of four years? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u73	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, the subject which you have brought today has been discussed several times in this House of the Republic and concerns wage inequalities between managers and other workers. In this respect, since this matter has been discussed several times in the House, it is therefore important to leave two notes before asking you a question. The first note is this: the position of the PSD has been of complete consistency in this matter. We understand, and we continue to understand, that, like others dealing with labour issues, it is a subject that must be dealt with, debated, examined in the context of social consultation. That has been our position and will continue to be our position,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u75	... because we understand that it is in social consultation that, together, employers, employers and government can find the necessary balance in all matters concerning work. Another note that matters here is the following: the Left Block cannot have the support of its Government or the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u77	In the past, as Mr. José Soeiro pointed out here, the Left Block presented a project that was plunged by its partner, precisely saying that this matter would be dealt with in the context of social consultation. What did the Socialist Party do? Nothing! You have presented a project, as you well mentioned, this project has actually been approved, but the truth is, since January, we have no news of anything. In other words, the government, its government, has promised in the electoral programme that would deal with this issue in the context of social consultation and did nothing. At the end of the Legislature, it presents a draft resolution and, even ending, until today, we have no answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u79	It is at this moment that I ask the honourable Member whether or not he agrees that this failure of his government, this lack of strategy, this lack of concern about the real problems of society is a disregard for what the Government that you support has promised and has not complied with. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u80	The PSD is just like the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u81	To reply, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u82	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, welcome back to Portugal and the debate on wage inequalities, shocking in our country. Mr President, our proposal was discussed here in September and what we propose is that the Government set a reference salary gap and that this salary gap serves as a reference for the public sector and the private sector. What is the consequence for companies that do not respect this pay gap? They are two, Mr President: they are no longer able to benefit from public support, as they benefit, for example, from hiring, or from tax benefits; and they are also unable to participate in competitions and public arrests. I wonder in which case this violates the sacrosanct freedom of companies, which you have spoken of here. Should the State finance companies that contribute to wage inequalities? Oh, my God! Don't we have anything to do about it? Oh, my God! The truth is the CDS-PP was against this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u85	The honourable Member also said that the Left Block wants to penalize the wealthiest and that is not how poverty is fought. Mr. Deputies, inequalities are an issue of inequality in the distribution of wealth, because it is the wealth of that company, the money that is produced by that company, which is being badly distributed, is being distributed in this shocking way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u86	That's the Marxist talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u87	On the contrary, what the pay gap does is to establish a proportion. Yes, ma'am, does the manager want to be paid well? It may be well paid, but it has to increase in the same proportion the wage of the worker who earns less. This is called a basic and elementary criterion of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u89	That is why a proposal of these is being discussed in so many countries. It is as simple as this: to establish a maximum proportion of what earns the worker who earns less and what wins the worker who earns more within the same company. I'm even surprised that a party with the Christian Democrats roots that the CDS so often invokes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u90	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u91	...is not sensitive to a measure of these.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u93	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the PSD agrees with the Socialist Party that these matters should be removed from the sphere of action of Parliament and sent to social dialogue. However, we know what the different partners who are present in the Standing Committee on Social Consultation think. When we presented our bill, the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, made a statement expressing his shock at the wage disparity in Portuguese companies, but Antonio Saraiva, the President of the CIP - Empresarial Confederation of Portugal and one of the representatives of the employers in social dialogue, he immediately said, in response to the Prime Minister, that they did not think about legislating on the matter, because that was about the exclusive competence of the companies and neither the government nor Parliament had to do with it. Is it not Parliament making the law, for example, that defines a minimum wage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u94	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u95	Can't we define a salary below which no worker can be paid? Oh, my God! We can, we must and do it; indeed, with the opposition of the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u96	It's CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u97	...and the CDS, we increased the minimum wage. What we cannot do, Mrs Member — and the CDS, right now, because it makes exactly the same speech — is that we are concerned about wage disparities, which we are concerned about this brutal inequality...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u99	...and then drop and reject all the measures proposed in this Parliament to combat inequalities, such as those proposed by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u100	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u101	We cannot reject these measures and at the same time forgive ourselves for the inequality we feed on our inaction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u102	That's for the PS bench, it's not for PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u103	Mr José Soeiro, we need to respond to two further requests for clarification. First of all, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro has today brought the debate to an important point. In fact, between 2017 and 2018, the wage difference between top managers and workers increased significantly : in 2017, it was 46 times and, in 2018, it was 52 times. This shows that there is still a very serious and shocking problem in the country about this reality. It must be said that injustice in the distribution of wealth in a country is not only measured by this sign, which is no longer of little importance. It should also be said that 1% of the population has 25% of the wealth that is produced in this country and that 5% of the population concentrates 50% of the national wealth. This demonstrates that political measures are needed with will and courage to combat the concentration of wealth and to distribute it more fairly. This requires, firstly, fiscal measures to ensure that the tax burden on large companies and economic groups is effective and that tax relief on labour income and workers are decisive. Also on the wage level, there are measures to be taken, because we still have one of the lowest minimum wages in the euro area. Therefore, the PCP proposed the increase of the minimum wage to 650 €, already from January 2019, which was rejected by PS, PSD, and CDS. We also believe that the fight against precariousness and the guarantee of updating all wages in the context of collective bargaining, as well as the wages of all employees of the Public Administration, which have not increased wages for 10 years, is to establish justice. That is why we believe that the reduction in wage leques cannot mean neither wage stagnation nor the increase in lower wages. The fight against wage inequality must, first of all, result in the increase in wages, particularly the lowest, and in a fairer distribution of wealth. It is in this sense that we will continue to intervene and work, because we understand that when we actually live in a country where the distribution of wealth is deeply unfair,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u106	...are losing not only the workers, but also, and above all, the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u107	To request clarification, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Soeiro, from our point of view, the question is about the quality of democracy and has to do with an ideological question about how we view working relations: either in ultra-liberalism, in which economic freedom all permits and gives priority, or, on the contrary, in working relations that favour decent work. That is the fundamental question. In fact, I don't think it's worth trying to find out who's taking the cup, because that would lead us - for example, to the Socialist Party's congress, already in 2016, in which a guidance on this matter was adopted. The point is to resolve the issues and, on this point, it is no less important to remember that, as already mentioned, in September last year, the Prime Minister said that these situations were perfectly unacceptable and reprehensible. The very simple question is not the bottom line. That is, whether the way we favour our choice is a fundamental issue or not, but whether we want to know which path we want to follow. We follow the Block in this matter, we have no problem and, indeed, we welcome the Block on the Left for bringing the debate again. However, we would like to stress that, for the Socialist Party, what the Block presented in September — and not a year ago, as the Left Block Coordinator said — was not, from our point of view, the most thoughtful and recommended path. We have followed different paths for a very simple reason, and I can give you some examples. One of the paths that was enshrined in the Left Block initiative, from our point of view,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u109	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u110	...it was dangerous and could lead to a subcontracting. Mr. President, with your permission, I would still like to say...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u111	But it has to be quick, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u112	I'm going to be very quick, Mr. President. Mr. José Soeiro, I would like to know if you do not consider that this way of raising the minimum wage and raising the income of families, which has been achieved by the PS and the left parties, such as the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u114	... has mitigated the issue of wage disparities and has reduced poverty. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u115	To reply, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u116	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I thank you for your question and your comments. As I said in my speech, and I repeat, the fight against inequalities is done with many measures, none can be fully effective alone. We are fully in agreement by the tax procedure, by the increase in national minimum wage, by the fight against precariousness and by collective bargaining, which is fundamental to raising wages, particularly the lowest. If, in relation to all these measures, we are asked which one we prefer, I would like to say again that we all prefer, because we want all of them to move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u118	Why should we not have a wage gap that sets a maximum proportion between the lowest wage and the highest wage within the same company? Can anyone accept and think it legitimate that, in Pinko Doce, a worker must work 226 years to earn the same as the manager of that company? Oh, my God! Does anyone accept that, on the Continent, a worker who earns the minimum wage must work 77 years to earn the same as the manager of the company in which he works? Oh, my God! This is not to mention the EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) or the CTT-Emails of Portugal. There is no relationship between the supersonic wages that managers pay and the operating results of companies, or even with their quote on the Stock Exchange or their economic-financial health; there is only one relationship with offensive greed, which perpetuates and sharpens inequalities, which must also fight against these measures. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, if the Socialist Party has an orientation, we are delighted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u119	We don't know which one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u120	We know that in January a draft resolution was adopted in this House, but so far nothing has been done, even though the government is supposed to launch this debate in social dialogue. One thing we know: the representatives of the employers' confederations are against this measure, that the Socialist Party defends and that we agree here in Parliament, i.e. there will be no agreement in the social dialogue on this. Therefore, the question is whether, in the absence of an agreement, the Socialist Party is available in Parliament to decide for the implementation of a maximum wage gap. And what will the government do, knowing that the bosses are against? You're going to give in, "put the rape in the bag" and do nothing, because the bosses are against it? Or are you going to advance, against the will of the bosses, to define a payroll? Mrs Wanda Guimarães said that the Socialist Party was accompanying the Bloc in this matter. Well, the Socialist Party has accompanied the Bloc in this matter with a vote against our project, which is a particular way to follow us, but I do not doubt that it will follow the intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u121	Let's go with you today!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u122	The PS has its project!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u123	Mrs Deputy, because we know each other and work together in this Parliament, in many matters, I do not doubt your commitment and your intentions. The problem is that the Socialist Party is full of good intentions and now it is time to act. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u124	Only now did you understand that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u125	For a political statement on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by making three citations. First citation: « The reversal of austerity was not drastic. Do not keep on seeking. ” Second citation: "Whenever anyone is proud of the deficit, ask him where the hospital, the bus, the school or the court is in. Do not keep on seeking. ” Third citation: "The government does not want to comply with the law. Do not keep on seeking. ” There are three citations that would easily be attributed to someone who sits in the opposition benches. It turns out that all of them are supporters of this majority of the government, of the majority of the left, and even of senior officials. The first, on the reversal of austerity has not been drastic, is by Mário Centeno, even more or less the Minister of Finance. It is the so-called « quote for English to see», or in the case « to see », since it was made to the Financial Times. The second is a CDU propaganda document. It is the so-called "quotation for communists to believe", for those who see the PCP constantly do the opposite of what he has always defended and make pamphlets, thinking that propaganda still convinces comrades. The third is the so-called « quote for blogger not to flee ». It is an attempt by the Left Block to say something against the government, so that its militancy also continues to believe. The purpose is obvious, it is the purpose that unites this majority: to please everyone, especially each one to his or her electorate, fulfilling a cartridge that is defined in three obligations of the militant leftist supporting this government. First obligation: to say everything and its opposite, if it is even necessary. Second obligation: hide what is not appropriate. Third obligation: if the first two do not succeed, it is because it is the fault of the previous government, even if it is impossible to attribute this guilt to the previous government and it is ridiculous to invoke it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have often said, this government and this majority justify censorship, deserve opposition and certainly legitimize the existence of an alternative. However, we are going to the principles of the good supporter of this government. Let's start with the first: say everything and its opposite. The privatization of the Estaleiros of Viana do Castelo would end with the construction and repair of ships in Portugal. Only not, they contrived to go to the ceremony of the first ship of a rising industry that is in Portugal to give letters! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal) failed and then the state would recover most of the capital. But no, it's still the same, without changing the company structure of the same company! The teachers were to defend radically. But, after all, no, because, in the first instance, teachers are not able to negotiate and hit them with the door on their face! The hospitals of the social sector were to value the Social Economy Bases Act. Only not, comes the Health Bases Act and, after all, it's only worth anything from the state! Climate change was a priority. Only not, if anyone proposes an emergency fund for climate change, after all, they have ceased to be! Public investment, yes, was a priority. Only not every year, it is explained why, after all, the previous year has not yet happened the public investment, the best year of which is still the last year of the previous government, which, after all, has so much to blame for!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u128	The tax burden was going to decrease. Only not, the record has been beaten and the tax burden is the highest ever! But the second duty of the leftist militant supporting this government is to hide what is not appropriate. If there are reports from SIRESP that do not agree with what was said at the time, they hide until it is possible to hide again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u130	If what happened in Tancos does not also have a possible explanation, it hides until the last hour, trying to avoid the loss of responsibility. If the costs of defrosting careers would allow a serious discussion of what is at stake, there is no estimate of this cost so that no one can discuss with this government the options it presents. If the cost of reversals of PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health could show whether these options were good management options or not, it hides how much it costs each such reversals so that the debate is not possible. If the captives hide the lie that is the approval of each budget, here in this Parliament, and the dissimulation of those who, on the left of the PS, approve it, hide until it is no longer possible to hide. As has already been said, this government deserves opposition and deserves censorship. But it is undoubtedly in the ideological options that an alternative to a government that always opts, firstly, by the State, rather than the alternative option of the person's primacy. Because, as Lucas Pires said, «it was not the state at first, it was the man at first». And the priority of the State is clear in the options of this government. Not as long as I have enough time, I will give only three clear examples. First, the militant statism of the State in health and education, completely limiting freedom of choice, saying that it is the state that knows what is best for each student, for each patient and not that each one knows which way to education is best or which way to use health services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u131	Health is also increasingly important, for this majority, who owns hospitals than the quality of the services they provide to patients.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u132	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u133	And finally, even in tax revenue, it is always more important to charge than to respect taxpayers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, continuing to quote Lucas Pires,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u134	Thank you very much. You cannot continue, you must conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u135	... «is the state that has to humanize itself, it is not the person who has to statize. That is why the alternative to this government passes by less state, respect for the person and respect for his or her freedom. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u136	The Bureau recorded the registration of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u137	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u138	All right. First of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u139	Mr President, Mr Deputy, in fact, attaches importance to the fake news, beginning its intervention with a translation. I think your English will certainly be better than mine, but the phrase you used here in your speech was that "the reversal of austerity was not drastic. I invite you to read the text, which says "is not dramatic. » Probably, you will know the difference between one word and another and you will realize that your translation intends to indicate a path that is not the true one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u141	Mr President, it is good for you to acknowledge that you have made a mistake, since you call on others to do so when that happens. He said many times that for us, the blame always lies with the previous government, as an argument, as a justification option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u142	Don't! Not always!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u143	But, Mr President, we are going to make comparisons between this government and the previous one. There is no problem in doing so. And let's start with GDP, which, perhaps, is an essential element of all this talk and all this argument. I would like to remind you that in 2016, 2017 and 2018, especially in 2017 and 2018, where we were above the values of Europe to 18, our GDP grew and in 2019 will grow. I would invite you to try to give me an example of a similar series during the government of which you were part to see the difference between one thing and another. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you want to talk about public investment? Let's talk, too. We will talk about 2015 and compare it with public investment these years: in 2017, there was a 25 % growth compared to 2016 ; in 2018, there was a 12 % growth compared to 2017 ; and growth is expected for 2019. Do you know what this growth is like, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u145	It is precisely the good public accounts, the good management, the policy of this government that has allowed us to reduce the cost of interest and our public debt. This is concrete, it shows the difference between the policy of certain accounts, the policy that did not need corrective budgets, as it did every year. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u146	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u147	That's the difference in governance! Mr President, make the comparison and you will understand how different it is to rule as we rule and govern as you have ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u148	You have the floor to answer Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I must acknowledge that there is something in which we are not able to compete with the Socialist Party, which is in technical English. In fact, it's a specialty we don't dominate! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP.]] So I'm not able to compete with you in technical English. However, I tell you that, by consulting any dictionary, you will see what is the translation from 'dramatic' to Portuguese. But now we are going to the context, because Mr Finance Minister has not just said that phrase. Do you know the next sentence? This is what he says: "A change had to be implemented, but it could not be a big change. » So, after all, the translation goes in the direction of what Mr. Deputy said or goes in the direction of what I said?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u150	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u151	Is that the interpretation of what I said, an interpretation in the context of what was said by the Minister of Finance? [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u152	Therefore, fake news, Mr. Member, is to take in your intervention. On public investment, he said « why we increased the 2017 GDP compared to 2016, 2018 compared to 2017 and 2019 compared to 2018 ». Only a small comparison is missing in the series that Mr. Deputy presented: then, and from 2015 to 2016? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u153	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u154	I repeat: then, and from 2015 to 2016, Mr. Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u155	You had left the project blank!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u156	The honourable Member says: « We did a little better from year to year than we had done in the previous year» and what he does not say is that in the first year of the government did worse than the previous government had done,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... that in the second year of governance did worse than the previous government had done and that in the third year of governance did worse than the previous government had done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u157	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u158	There is one question that you did not put, but that I was hoping you would. However, I will answer in the same way, because I think it is important for clarification, if I may. at this moment, there is something very important to compare about executions: the honourable Member did not come with the argument of the return of income, and it was good for him to come. You know why? Because, arrived in 2018, there was no distinction between what was the return of income that the Socialist Party made and the return of income that the majority PSD / CDS intended to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u159	And the cut in wages? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u160	Therefore, what you have to discuss at this time, equally equally, is who is able to attract more investment, who is able to have more economic growth and who is able to distribute by creating and not distributing just taking advantage of the environment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u161	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Almeida, the CDS made a political statement that looks like a Russian salad, because it is about everything and something else. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] His political statement has a very clear objective, which is to shake the water from the hood without ever saying what the CDS did and without assuming what the CDS really wants. I begin by referring to the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. Does the honourable Member have the right to take this example? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS was an accomplice to a national disaster strategy, promoted by a PSD minister, to destroy a public enterprise to promote private business. The gentlemen. Members beat their hands because they promoted business of millions at the expense of the destruction of public time to favour private. You should be ashamed! [[PCP applause.]] They should be ashamed of what they've done to the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo! Are you talking about SIRESP, honourable Member? Oh, my God! In this respect, you are not sorry, because you know the procedure very well. Where was the CDS when, at the time of the nationalization of the losses of BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank, S.A. ) and the SLN (Sociedad Lusa de Negócios ), did the PCP also propose the nationalization of assets? You know what that meant? That if we had nationalized the assets and not the losses, as someone from the CDS signed cross, at the exit of any beach, we would have remained under the public control of SIRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u164	And you are not ashamed to come up with this example, when we could have kept the public control of this company, with the nationalisation of assets? Oh, my God! The CDS didn't want it! Why? He nationalized the losses and the profits were kept private! That's your strategy! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] More: where was the CDS in the key moments of this legislature? We need to change labour legislation to improve, protect workers, increase income returns. Where does the CDS stand? Has the CDS ever been concerned about the return of income and the improvement of the working conditions of Portuguese workers? Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u165	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u166	Therefore, it is a deep hypocrisy of the CDS. Finally, I want to say that the CDS makes a political statement to criticize, but it never tells our country what it comes to. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u167	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jorge Machado, first of all, say-CL- would-he say that rather a Russian salad than a Soviet salad. It's a matter of taste. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u170	It's a matter of taste and truth. The honourable Member has indeed made an intervention here — perhaps because of this it has been inspired — which has been worthy of washing everything that is the reality, which is extraordinary. I confess that on the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros I cannot say better to show the mismatch between the position of the PCP and what is reality. The honourable Member has been much more competent than I would be to expose the ridiculous position of, at the moment, still denying the reality of what was a right option, what was a consequent path and what was a very great advantage to the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] But I am going to tell you in another way, Mr President, that in the few options that the previous government has been able to take, some have been taken, years later, if you have seen how quickly they have evolved, while you have recently taken an option, which clearly has the mark of the CFP, for which we are going to see what will happen in a few years. This option concerns the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u171	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u172	What you have approved here would say that you respect the most reactionary tradition of the CFP. It was truly extraordinary to put the paternalist state to say and to define what wine production should be in the Douro! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] As in the 21st century, make registration compulsory! Just as, in the 21st century, being determined by the State what should be a free, prosperous, competitive activity, with the ability to internationalize and with the ability to prosper! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] You have the responsibility to have here approved a reversal option which recovers nothing less than the New State model. Let us see, a few years from now, whether you can say of the House of Douro what we can now say of the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u173	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u174	Mr President, I was here to see this debate and, after hearing the intervention of the Socialist Party, I have the clear feeling that people do not know the situation we have been through. The Socialist Party, when trying to compare the situation it inherited in 2015 with the bankruptcy situation that the previous government inherited in 2011, uses pure intellectual dishonesty because it does not even have a notion of the destruction that they left in the country and of the situation in which they left the Portuguese. And they don't even value the Portuguese effort to get the country out of bankruptcy! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u175	So compare what is incomparable is dishonest and not even respectable. The case of the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo is a beautiful example of your statisticizing view of the situation. It is that what happened after a socialist author put a crown of flowers in the Estaleiros, as if it were a funeral, was to have had a party, at which Antonio Costa was the guest of honor, of honor to the PSD government / CDS, José Pedro Aguiar Branco and Pedro Passos Coelho. But this is the greatest humiliation for the one who is your thought about this. The correct answer is that when the private does good, it should be valued. And, my lords, we want better state. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has a maximum: whenever there is a problem, whenever there is an information, whenever there is a document that contradicts the official narrative, it is better to pass by little transparent than by liar and therefore hides itself. And what happened to SIRESP is precisely the standard behavior that is no longer the exception of a government. That is why there are hundreds of questions from Members of all parties for answering by ministers of this government, with the convivence of the Left Block and the CFP. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, has touched on a very important issue that has to do with the situation of Civil Protection. We heard all sectors: the Independent Fire Observatory, Civil Protection, Firefighters, various parties and even several members of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u176	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u177	The ongoing reform in Civil Protection is not desired and makes no sense. Today, Mr President, at a conference in Abrantes, the President of Civil Protection himself said that we should look at this reform from an eminently political point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u178	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u179	I'm done now, Mr. President. If even the President of Civil Protection himself, in a speech that is written in this way, is demarcated by reform, we can only fear the worst in preparing what is one of the most important structural reforms in this sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u180	I'd like to know if the CDS is available to condemn with us a reform that has come to destroy a much weakened sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u181	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u182	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, thank you for the question you have raised. The honourable Member has introduced the issue well with regard to what is an option of this government and this majority, i.e. to hide whenever possible. Whenever possible, try to hide until the last hour those who are essential data so that there can be scrutiny of the options they take or even so that there can be knowledge of reality and from there can develop alternative policies. About what I said about Civil Protection, this is a sensitive and very relevant matter. After the tragedy in Pedrogão and then, also, with the fires in the central zone, in October, the government assumed, as it could not fail to assume, responsibility to remove all the consequences in terms of reform of the civil protection system, so that such situations as those would not repeat again. Now, we are at the end of the legislature and we have not yet completed this process. It could only be a problem of delay, but no, there is a serious problem of inconsistency in the solution presented, as I said, and well, the Independent Fire Observatory itself. In the structural design of the system, a mistake is made that is fundamental: the same government that makes an organic law of the National Civil Protection Authority and that transforms this authority from a district structure into a structure by NUTS (the nomenclature of territorial units for statistical purposes) is the same government that then does not change that reality in relation to civil protection agents. So we will have a system that, from a territorial point of view, will have different divisions, depending on the coordinating entity and the civil protection agents who then have to respond to the occurrences. This is a mistake that cannot be made clear and is an obvious example of the inability this government has had to give the effective answer to the one who was a serious problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u183	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u184	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, this is an obvious example of the inability that this government has had to give an effective answer to the one who was a serious problem, a tragic circumstance which required greater speed from this government, but which, above all, required greater competence from this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u185	For a political statement, Mr John Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this political statement, today we bring to debate the problems of drought and its consequences for agricultural and livestock production. We understand that, even though there have been some aqueducts in recent days, we cannot rest and, at least, feel that the situation is overcome thanks to providence, which has managed to solve the situation. It is, in fact, the grip of the current government, but also of the former, its enormous faith in providence and, perhaps, its measures do not go beyond the manifestation of concerns. We are talking about an already known phenomenon, the consequences of which are not only due to the greater or lesser intensity of the rains that are falling, but rather, and above all, the absence of long-term measures necessary to mitigate them. Do we or do we not all know of the rivers of water that are wasted because of not being made the hydrographic works that could contain them and channel them? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a result of successive drought periods, have negative repercussions on agricultural use, difficulties in access to water, and what is seen is the use of emergency measures and contingency plans, because basic measures that have responded to a reality that has become recurrent or seen them! We would like, of course, to make it clear that the current reality of absolute exposure to risk and fragility to which farmers and farmers are exposed in the face of drought scenarios shows the enormous inability to respond to drought situations that our country has faced in recent years. This fragility is accentuated by the increase in drought periods and by the choice of agriculture, in regions such as Alentejo, characterized by the intensification of water and land use in a logic of capital accumulation, where vast areas of vines, peanuts and intensive and superintensive olives are the main expression and whose medium and long-term effect can be detrimental to the economic, social, environmental and landscape level. The pollution and contamination of water lines and water sheets, with various consequences, is another aspect to be considered with its effects on the reduction of the amount of water under appropriate conditions of use. This fragility and the ongoing threat to an increasingly common framework such as drought results from the options of the right-wing policy led by PS, PSD and CDS to fail to realize the investments planned over the years in various planning instruments, such as the PNPOT (National Territorial Planning Policy Programme), as well as the PROT (regional spatial planning programmes) or the National Water Plan and watershed plans, among others. As a result of such a lack of investment is the lack of water storage capacity necessary to respond to the effects of the drought in question, as is recognised by the various entities linked to the sector. And it hasn't been due to lack of PCP alerts. PSD and CDS were more concerned about being the good students of the European Union and the IMF, while the current government is more concerned about giving priority to the deficit targets imposed by the European Union. The reality, however, cannot be denied and, together with the continued fragility and destruction of public services, the lack of structural measures that allow the sustainable development of the rural world, such as the creation of employment with rights and the raising of wages, accentuates the depopulation with consequences in the desertification of the interior. Exceptional measures are required for exceptional situations to ensure water supply and the development of agricultural activity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, exceptional measures are required for exceptional situations in order to ensure the supply of water and the development of agricultural activity. In addition to the exceptional measures required by the situation, it is essential to adopt measures of a structural nature that go beyond mitigation and contingency measures, based on the concrete reality, the forecast of needs, planning the necessary investments and defining time and means for their implementation. The CFP advocates the development of a plan that hierarchizes the use of water according to drought, which combines underground and surface uses in a complementary logic, favouring human use, public health and small and medium-sized agriculture, adapting the edafoclimatic conditions and safeguarding workers' incomes. It is essential that the intervention in this area is based on the ownership and public management of water and the clear assumption of the responsibilities of all stakeholders. The quality of the water masses, as a source of origin for the various types of use, must be ensured by the Government, and the various bodies of the Public Administration play an important role here, and this also requires that they have means to act and that there is a better knowledge and monitoring of the evolution of the situation. in this regard, it is also important to review the Albufeira Convention, allowing better use of international rivers, especially for Guadiana. The current situation requires measures which the CFP has persistently claimed, of a structural and urgent nature, with an impact on the existing hydraulic network and to create, intervening in the improvement of current infrastructures, including the increase of capabilities, the realization of the construction of long planned dams, which is an example of the Pisão dam, as well as the realization of the connection between Alqueva and Monte da Rocha. These are measures and proposals which have already been presented in the Assembly of the Republic, some of which have already been approved, now require determination for their implementation. Concreteness that is far beyond what the government could develop, because it requires a break with the taxes and commitments with the great capital and with the European Union directory, that the PS clearly does not want to disintegrate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u187	Mr President, your statement was worth four requests for clarification. Once you want to answer one by one, Mr Matias has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I welcome Mr João Dias and the CFP Parliamentary Group for having taken the initiative to bring up the debate a problem so hot, so current and so serious, insofar as it affects both the rural world and, in particular, agriculture. In fact, we believe that, in addition to the drought period that has come to pass, although slightly mitigated in the last few days and hours, we know that most likely the drought period will continue, forcing us to find answers. from the point of view of the Left Block, we believe that the answers to be given are at various levels, some of which you have already mentioned. In general, we believe that immediate answers need to be found to compensate for the losses that farmers and livestock farmers have, to try to mitigate the losses of those who invest so much and give them to agriculture and that so many risks run. They will therefore have to be found direct aid, funds which directly help, which will respond to the productive potential and which will try to minimize the losses that producers will suffer. Just as priority should be given to projects applying for the RDP (Rural Development Programme) in areas heavily affected by drought. This is one of the dimensions of the problem. The other dimension of the problem has to do with the trendly permanent nature of crisis periods due to climate change. The atypical years begin to be typical, the years of drought are going on and, therefore, there is a need to promote profound changes in crops, methods of cultivation, forcing farmers to support this conversion and forcing the services to find good answers and to be able to take them to the ground, so that there is such transformation in agriculture. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza): Mr. Member, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u189	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It will also have to be reviewed the insurance system, so that disasters like this and many others have the support of the public insurance system, allowing farmers and breeders to have guarantees of their profitability. Mr President, I should like to hear the opinion of the CFP on these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u190	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Matias, first of all, I should like to thank the question put to us and to make clear what is the position shared by the CFP on the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized owners, small and medium-sized producers, small and medium-sized farmers. In fact, whenever we find ourselves in a situation of loss of productive potential, we see the government creating difficulties in accessing these applications, thus creating obstacles in their implementation, which many of them abdicate to try to restore the productive potential by this way. We understand, as I said, that we are in an increasingly unpredictable situation and that support for farmers, in terms of their ability to adapt to a new climate change situation, is crucial. But according to the new Framework for Common Agricultural Policy, like the previous ones, the policy of distribution of support is, it remains and will be to be to distribute more and more to those who need help than to those who need it most. The truth is that according to the decisions taken — this is a very big lesson that we all have to draw — in submission to the Brussels tax, the successive government, whether the PS or the PSD and the CDS, have preferred to leave the country at home to meet both the deficit ratios and the debt ratios. Even because they knew that, if they had made the right choices and decisions in terms of public water infrastructure, they would be against the interests of exploitation, for example hydroelectric power plants. Traditionally, in our country, there was very little water, because crops were dried... Well the Minister of Agriculture can say that olive oil is one of the crops that uses less water, because when we talk about crops adapted to our country, we know that they didn't even use water sizes. That is why it is important for us to once again bet on family farming and to support small and medium-sized farmers in adapting to these climate conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u192	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Renato Sampaio, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u193	Mr President, Mr John Dias, drought is a direct consequence of climate change. So droughts must be combated in advance. And here the government, with the aim of decarbonizing the economy, has been up to its responsibilities. We know that, today, drought cycles are increasingly short and droughts are more extreme and prolonged. It is therefore necessary to create strategic water reserves to mitigate the devastating effects of droughts. In the first quarter of this year, two factors have already been combined that inevitably lead to drought: precipitation much lower than normal and temperature above what is normal. And if it is necessary to prevent it, it is also necessary to act immediately. For this reason, the Government has already taken measures, and is implementing them, to mitigate the effects of drought which may possibly exist, such as: encouraging the efficient use of water— it is essential to know today that water is a scarce well that needs to be treated efficiently; permanent monitoring of watersheds and watersheds, enabling more efficient and effective management of these water reserves; the provision of EUR 40 million to reduce water losses in low supply; allowing alternative sources of water for non-drink use, with a reuse of the waters that are being treated; the cleaning of the sediments of the trees, increasing the capacity of the shrubs, strengthening the interconnection of the supply systems in order to increase water availability and the capacity to regulate; the agreement between EDIA (A and Alqueva Infrastructure Company ) and Portugal, among other interventions. The question that I put to the honourable Member is this: what do you think about the strategic water reserves that need to be held in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza): You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Renato Sampaio for his question. Mr President, how many times has the CFP denounced the lack of investment in the water distribution network, either up or down! Such is the need for current investment that its non-implementation has led to the waste of millions of cubic metres! There are those who speak in more than 242 million m3 / year. This is a scandal, sir! And all this waste has a origin, which are the cuts that right-wing policy has been making in terms of investment in infrastructures essential to water use. The honourable Member speaks of the need to be able to make efficient use of water. Now there is a clear need for public investment, so that there is a more efficient, efficient water distribution network that allows the water to reach those of it most accurate. The CFP has also been fighting for the need to combat the degradation of the public structures which have a mission to monitor, monitor, supervise and defend water resources, especially due to the lack of workers. The institutions that have this responsibility today are absolutely in need of staff to achieve those that are their social functions in relation to a social good such as that of water, determining for the development of the country. So, Mr President, we say that we need to move forward, we need to invest in resources to carry out the mission of all these infrastructures. And what I say to you is a question that everyone and the whole country must put on: one must be followed by what has been the policy advocated by this government, by obsession with the policy of accelerated reduction of the deficit, or if, once and for all, one assumes the need for public investment to combat what has been the degradation of public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u195	Mr President, the Bureau would like to congratulate you on your strict use of your response time, 2 minutes. You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Cristóvão Crespo, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating Mr João Dias for bringing this issue to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. This is an issue whose importance goes far beyond the visible consequences for this year of 2019 and possibly by 2020. The consequences are far deeper than those of a year with a rainfall below the average. The lack of rain in the fall/winter period is one of the most observable effects of the climate change process that the country is living intensely. The situation calls into question both the public supply of the population and the economic activity, especially the agricultural sector, which is, of course, most affected. What surprises us is the long-term lack of vision of government officials. An obvious example is the so-called National Regadio Plan, which is no longer a set of loose projects, without a strategic and integrated perspective. It is therefore urgent to build a genuine national plan that defines this strategy. We are also surprised at the lack of boldness in defending agricultural activity as an essential and unique productive sector in the process of mitigating the effects of desertification of the territory. Mr. Deputies, the conformity of your Government is a matter of concern. Mr. Deputies has brought PS, PSD and CDS to bear. Aren't you bound to this government, Mr? Oh, my God! It is not worth wanting to run away from this matter because it is tied to this government. In fact, the answer given by your Government is that you have a working group to follow up on the situation and that you expect April to end the drought. The honourable Member referred to the example of the Pisão dam, and that is a good example, because in fact, the Government, with all the studies that have already been carried out, with the draft resolution presented in the Assembly of the Republic, has now decided to set up a working group after it was all studied. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at risk is too serious. In a few years' time, our country will become one of the driest regions in Europe and where present agroforestry systems will not be able to survive. It is the change of the whole territory as we now know it, which will be dramatic and catastrophic. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza): Mr. Cristóvão Crespo, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u197	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, do you see yourself in the plans of your Government in monitoring the drought and the plan drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture for the productive sector? Or follow the PSD, what do you think a true national plan should be built that defines the water retention strategy? [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza): You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u198	Mr President, first of all, I thank Mr Cristóvão Crespo for the question that has been put to me. He spoke of a number of matters, particularly the defence of agricultural activity, the lack of long-term vision, but I think he has forgotten a question which the PSD would like to remember very much and which I remember for you, which is to ask whether there is still a small and medium-sized farmer in this country. The answer they want to hear is "no, there are only great. » That is your position: to end all medium and small producers, to all small and medium farmers and to say that there are only large producers. This is your vision, it is the vision that you have bound up with policies that have only one logic: a contradictory logic, which is the logic of competitiveness and productivity. It is in these conditions that you want the small and medium-sized family farming to survive. Productivity and competitiveness do not mean the same thing. In the world of competitiveness that you want, only the big ones survive. That is why you want to hear the answer that there are only large and there are no small producers. He tied up the PSD for four years to those that were the CDS impositions. So we have a lot of difficulty in distinguishing the policies that both parties defend. We have no doubt: we defend family agriculture and food sovereignty, so we assume that the policies of the PS governments, but also of the PSD/CDS government in the mad defense for competitiveness, they, yes, destroyed the capacity of our country to produce what is needed, exchanged national production for competitiveness and balance of food balance. A medal that you take home is the destruction of national production! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ) : Mr. Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u199	Mr President, Mr João Dias, I congratulate you on bringing this very important issue to debate through your political statement today. I wanted to say that since 2016 the CDS has also been showing concern and presenting proposals, criticizing the government for its non-options and its non- attitudes to drought. I'd say 2018 was a dramatic year. But for example, the albums of the Barrage do Monte da Rocha, in Ourique, or the Barrage do Pego do Altar, in Alcácer do Sal, this year are again limited to the areas cultivated of rice, being the farmers with many problems. Also the salina in the area of Vila Franca de Xira has progressed. In 2019 we are therefore in the same situation. Now they're all talking about the same problem again. The CDS didn't forget. In 2018, where was the PCP when the CDS presented, at the forum of discussion of the State Budget, an emergency fund for drought? Lead him! In 2019, where was the PCP when the CDS presented an emergency fund for climate change? He voted against it, rejected it! Mr, you need to find immediate answers. The CDS has presented them and is consistent with what it has done. In 2012, the year in which it was dry, the PSD/CDS Government made EUR 45 million available in the State budget for concrete measures. It was not an anticipation of Community aid, as this Government has done. Mr Deputy, in fact, structural responses are needed. And here we see a huge incoherence of the CFP in relation to its coalition partner, the Greens Ecological Party. In fact, the CFP, apart from not being understood by the supporting Government, is not even understood by its coalition partner. It's that while the PCP defends dams, the Greens don't defend dams. In fact, the PCP defends the Pisão dam, but the Greens voted against the National Barrage Plan and also do not agree with the construction of the Alvito dam, proposed, moreover, presented here by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u200	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u201	In conclusion, Mr President, what I ask Mr João Dias is how the CDU will present the elections, whether with the 'The Greens version' or the 'PCP version'. It was important that you clarify this to your voters. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u202	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u203	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I thank you for your question. And a first question that raises me, and which I even put to myself, is what you have been doing the CDS at the time when it was government regarding the issues you identified here and the diagnosis you have made here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u204	Nothing! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u205	It is that, when it was government, he did nothing, he did not take any measures! in this sense, it is necessary to question what the CDS did. Nothing! You didn't do anything! But I was able to make the diagnosis and want immediate answers. But the immediate answers, in the time when it was government, were to appeal to the providence to resolve the situation. This has been your policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u207	Madam Member, what we need to know is whether you have built the infrastructure. And this threat to farmers and producers is a threat now identified by the honourable Member, but to which you have never been able to answer. In short, he can do the diagnosis very well, but he never solved the situation. According to this unbalanced and unbalanced policy, in the time when your Government was in office there was a great incentive for the development of the intensive, superintensive olive tree, as if this olive tree served to make better water management and the end to which it is intended. It is important to know: for the balance of the food balance, what you consider to be the value; it is no matter that we have a deficit of 90 % of what we need, it is enough that we can have olives and olive oil and now we have wood to export and the situation is resolved! That's when they got the eucalyptus watered! Take a good look at what has been achieved: the river of the eucalyptus is made in the area of Coruche! The CFP, when it is concerned to know how many small and medium-sized farmers there are, is to defend them, to create measures to protect them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u208	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u209	I'm done now, Mr. President. The CDS, wanting to know how many small and medium-sized farmers there are, is just to know how many more have to exterminate and how many more have to destroy because it has already destroyed 400 000 and is not yet satisfied. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u210	The last political declaration is followed, which is the responsibility of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The coordinator of the Independent Commission for Decentralisation (CID), Dr. João Cravinho, said on Monday that the major national problems, such as decentralization, « are to be resolved, are not to be pushed with the belly ». And what has the government done about this? Precisely, « push problems with the belly ». Even today, we have questioned the Minister of Internal Administration for not yet setting up the Committee for Monitoring Decentralisation, which must integrate representatives of all parliamentary groups, of the Government, of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and also of the National Association of Fregueses ( ANAFRE ), and will assess the adequacy of the financial resources of each area of competences, as registered in Law No 50 / 2018 of 16 August. And what was the answer? Mr Minister said: 'The PSD is right, it has not yet been created because there was the legal doubt about who had the competence to set up this committee. She'll be raised now. But a regulation will still have to be created». The government is pushing problems and difficulties with the belly. We put the same issue, at a hearing held on 30 January, to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. At the time, Mr Minister said: 'We are concluding this stage...' — that of the approval and publication of sectoral diplomas — '... and we shall constitute, at the very moment that fundamental diplomas are already published, that committee which is essential. At the next hearing it will certainly be created'. Result: nothing has been done! What does the government do? « Push problems with the belly ». This is how we are in this process of decentralization. We are faced with a delayed, untransparent and too sinuous process. Even today, we still don't know what the funds are going to be transferred to the authorities. We have asked the Minister of Internal Administration whether any money has already been transferred to some authority and the answer is nothing. Of course, the government is moving on to postpone the problem, to push the problem with the belly. All the parties and all the autarchs have questioned the government on this matter. And, there it is, the problem continues. In order to prevent the entire process of decentralization from being lost, the PSD Parliamentary Group entered a draft resolution which provided that, after communicating to the authorities of the maps with the amounts of funding, the latter were presented to the Assembly of the Republic. This initiative was adopted and counted on the Socialist Party's abstention. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration was questioned why he did not present to the Assembly of the Republic, for discussion and approval, the maps with the amounts of the Decentralisation Financing Fund ( FFD ) and the criteria and terms of the reinforcements of this Fund, as set out in the draft resolution of the PSD, approved by the Assembly of the Republic. And the question posed was this: why did you not comply with this recommendation? And the Minister replied: "You will present now. It is already beginning to be able to do so». Result: little has been done! The government « pushes problems and difficulties with the belly ». These amounts should have been entered in the State budget for 2019, as set out in Law No 50 / 2018 of 16 August, Framework Act of decentralization. But they weren't registered. We thus question whether we will not be in the face of failure to comply with this Law. Since it is already impossible to follow the recommendations of the PSD adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, we do not want to believe that the Government, through the Minister of Internal Administration « runs over completely the Assembly of the Republic » and avoids the scrutiny by Parliament of the amounts to be transferred to local authorities. In the area of education, for example, with specific sectoral diplomas, the government has given more time to municipalities to decide whether they want to take over school management in the coming school year. The period was extended from 30 April to 30 June. As a result, we continue to « push problems with the belly ». In the area of health, also with a specific sectoral diploma, the Government shall forward the communication to DGAL (Directorate-General of Local Authorities) in case of non-acceptance of the competences, for the date to be defined, as it must be 60 days after the publication of the office. What does the government do? The government notes the problem, « pushes problems and difficulties with the belly». Two of the four essential elements of the agreement between the Government and the PSD (in particular the Framework Law on Decentralisation and the Review of the Local Finance Act) were decided simultaneously in July last year and completed within the agreed deadlines. In other words, what has been agreed with the PSD, the PSD has met ; what has happened to the sphere of government, the government has not met. However, in matters that were the responsibility of the government and its negotiation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and with ANAFRE it was no longer so, the deadlines were systematically failed. Despite this, it is emphasized that they are already agreed with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities all sectoral regulatory decrees. It is essential that the Government urgently conclude the negotiation of the financial envelopes associated with this whole process of decentralization. This is a decisive matter. The PSD has always been in good faith in this process, because it considers this matter to be very positive for the Portuguese. Transferring competences to authorities is positive. In fact, it was during the last PSD-led government that we witnessed significant and decisive advances in decentralization. It is essential to continue. The PSD wants this process to succeed. However, the government has made it a huge blanket of flaps, it doesn't. And since all diplomas have different pronunciation dates, it means that the deliberative bodies of the authorities, particularly the municipal assemblies, will have to meet very often. Final result: the government « pushes all these problems with the belly ». Every difficulty that arises « pushes with the belly». That's right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u212	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, having Mr António Costa Silva informed the Bureau that he would respond to groups of two. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD comes again to bring the debate, by the voice of Mr António Costa Silva, the issue of regionalization, which is really important for the country, but which, at the moment, prevails by the refusal. For the Left Block, it was assumed that, as a result of the new political framework, a reform would be carried out in the context of decentralization of competences for municipalities. As we know, the principle of subsidiarity is reflected in the Constitution of the Republic, i.e. that, within the framework of decentralization, this transfer of competences to organs directly elected by the people — Freguess, municipalities and regions. We all know what the PSD and PS did in the past. Because they did not like regionalization, they raised a thousand and one obstacles to it not moving forward. It is now necessary that this government, in this new framework, should move forward to the effective issue of decentralization and to resolve this reform. But, after all, whose fault is it? Although it has started late and bad hours, it is not only the government's fault, it is also the PSD's fault, which has reached agreement with the PS on regionalization. Therefore, it is very strange that the PSD comes here to claim that everything is late, that there are no financial packages, etc. Mr António Costa Silva, in fact, as we all know, there have been many complaints, at national level, of many autoarchs, of the PS and also of the PSD, because this process is a real mess. As you know, this will lead to bad results. The dish is stilting and you don't know who's going to catch the poops. Mr President, we are witnessing a process of decentralization of competence with which the Left Block does not agree, particularly in such important social areas of universal access, such as education, health, culture, heritage and others. And those responsible will be not only the PS and the government, but also the PSD. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you a very specific question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u214	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u215	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Mr António Costa Silva, when they begin to miss the funds for the authorities to respond adequately to such important social areas as health, education and culture, and that will certainly motivate discontent and revolt of the populations, what will the PSD do? Will you or will you not apologize to the country and the autarchs for being responsible for all this bullshit? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u216	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have listened very carefully to the PSD's political statement by Mr António Costa Silva, curiously few hours after having had the opportunity to be with Minister Eduardo Cabrita in the framework of a regiment hearing by the Committee on the Environment, Local Power, Decentralization and Housing. Mr President, I should like to tell you that your speech has brought nothing back to this debate. We often say and hear that Portugal has a long centralizing State tradition, leaving Article 6. that of the Constitution to be fulfilled until today. It is worth noting that in good time the Government of the Socialist Party took over the process of decentralization, a progressive solution, regarded as the greatest reform of the state. A demanding and complex reform and therefore also gradual. A reform that aims to change the paradigm, with a view to a more agile and closer state. For this process to be able to move forward, at Parliament level, with the support of the PSD, always with the expectation that other political forces could be associated. Today, at the hearing already mentioned, all parties had the opportunity to raise questions and ask for clarification. And we have heard from the Minister and the Secretary of State that the process normally takes place at different speeds, it is true, but progressing. And we all knew it wasn't an easy file. All the questions Mr António Costa Silva brought here, he also put them this morning and for them he got answers, although they may not have been complete answers or those he wanted. at present, decentralization is under way and the government is available to make the necessary corrections. The authorities have always been open to new competences and in many situations advance, replacing governments, to serve the people better. It is about to quote Mr. President of the National Association of Municipalities, Manuel Machado, who said the following at yesterday's meeting in Ponta Delgada : « We want decentralization to run well. It is a pioneering experience, it is the opportunity to modernize the Public Administration of our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u218	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u219	The financial maps are currently being appreciated in the municipalities, in which they are working. I ask the PSD to believe in perfect models and to prefer the delegation of competences, which came into action, although in small numbers, which left the authorities completely dependent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u220	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u221	We usually say that the way is going. We have no doubt that this will be the case and we believe that the PSD also advocates decentralization. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u222	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mr Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u223	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Vasconcelos and Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for the questions they have raised. With regard to Mr Vasconcelos' speech, I wanted to say that the Left Block had a very strange position in all this debate, because it was always against everything, it was never in favour of anything. The Left Block always aimed at regionalization—it had no more objectives! — knowing that in this process there is an independent Commission for decentralization, a technical committee, where it is an element indicated by the Left Block, which will study all possibilities. This is a matter that is evolving and will evolve this year. Moreover, in relation to the process of decentralization of competences for the authorities, they were always against everything, against all the proposals. In fact, they didn't present any. They remind that shipwreck that reaches one island and finds another shipwreck there, to whom they ask: "Who sends this island? The other shipwreck answered: "I am here alone. "Look, I'm from the opposition, I'm from the contrary! » The Left Block does, indeed, remind me of the story of the shipwreck that you do not want to send, want to be opposition and nothing more. [[PCP laughter.]] With regard to the proposals that have been made and discussed, indeed, there are very serious subjects, many diplomas and many areas that are decisive for the change of behavior and paradigm. In fact, as Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha said, many of the issues are crucial to bringing the decision closer to the citizens. This is important and that is why we continue to believe that this process is crucial for the citizens. What's right, and that's what we're dealing with, is that from the moment that the framework law and the review of the Local Finance Law were passed, and the PSD met closely its part, it was the drawback. It was the spillover in terms of sectoral diplomas, with delays in diplomas — still today the diplomas of health and education have been postponed — and we also have very serious problems with funding. There is not one cent and no one knows where the money comes from from the central state to the authorities. You don't know! So there's a huge void here, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u224	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u225	It was about this that, this morning, the Minister was unable to give answers. And a response which you have not given, and which you have been delaying, was about the monitoring committee for decentralization, that the authorities must be part of, and the Members. Members, too, in the sense of this process can be improved. This is decisive and they have not been able to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u226	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u227	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, criticised — and I think — the way the Government has conducted this process of decentralization, saying, and it is true, that the government "improves difficulties with the belly". However, Mr President, I confess that I have had some doubts about the PSD position, because I remember that when the government announced decentralization as the great reform of the state, the great reform of this legislature, making great proclamations, but always leaving very vague ideas, the PSD gave its hand to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u229	The PSD reached out to the government, the PSD handed over to the Prime Minister, the PSD handed over to Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u230	They understood themselves as one and flesh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u231	And there he went to PAF!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u232	When the time came for the truth, the time to pass in this Parliament the Local Finance Law, when we stopped discussing intentions and started discussing realities, the PSD gave its hand to the PS and, together, against several warnings from many benches—together, I repeat— approved a Local Finance Law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u233	Good law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u234	... completely vague in relation to the resources that would be transferred to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u236	A law that was completely vague in relation to the resources that would no longer be in the central state and would pass to the municipalities. Mr President, if we discuss resources, means, money from the Portuguese taxes that are passed to the municipalities, of course, they must stop being spent in the central state or, then, the Member will be defending increases in taxes for the Portuguese. But when the time came to make this clear, when the Local Finance Act was approved, the PS and PSD gave their hands and condemned this reform to failure. Therefore, Mr António Costa Silva, if the PSD has changed its mind, because it means that it has returned to clarity in this matter. What I would like to know is whether they are available — and indeed the CDS has already presented a number of parliamentary opinions on this matter — to return to the process where it should never have left and to begin to discuss the issue of resources seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u238	Of course, Mr. President. Mr. Deputies, while we are discussing case by case, the municipality, we will hardly achieve real decentralization. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u239	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u240	Mr President, I welcome you, Mr António Costa Silva, but let me tell you that your speech most seemed like a wall of regret.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u241	And so is it! We're sorry too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u242	They're so sorry! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u243	So let's see: the PSD has voted in favour of the law that allows the transfer of competences to the authorities and the Local Finance Act, one without any grounds, in a hurry. I remember that the Local Finance Act was passed in a week! And the law keeps the violation of the law itself, insofar as it is a law that says that the law is not to comply. And all this was possible only because the PSD voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u244	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u245	If the PSD had not voted in favour, this whole mess, which you referred to in the rostrum, would not have happened. Therefore, for all that is happening right now is as responsible for PS as the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u246	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u247	Mr. Deputies, you were in sight of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u248	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u249	I just didn't see who didn't want to see! It was in the eyes of everyone that all the conditions for the implementation of the powers were not guaranteed. From the very first moment we said in this House of the Republic that there was a need for elements to substantiate why these powers should be transferred rather than others. Why were those? Why weren't there others? What is the justification? What is the basis? There isn't! From the very first point of view, the need for strict evaluation, a diagnosis of the situation of each of the competences, i.e. knowing what exists, what is missing, what is necessary, financially, in terms of human resources, at the technical level and also in terms of the impacts on the authorities themselves. A request from the CFP has been approved in the Committee on the Environment — unanimously say so! — but the Government did not provide any information to the Assembly of the Republic. You don't realize what the role of the PSD is, when you come now to ask this set of questions, when you should have these elements from the very first moment, but you didn't have and you keep noticing. The PSD's intervention on this matter is not understood unless it is wanting to shake its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u251	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u252	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, in concrete terms, when the authorities began to receive the elements of health, they saw that, in fact, this does not solve any problems. The major penalties in this whole process are the people, because there will be no means and resources to ensure health and education, which is clearly a deresponsibility on the part of the government, transferring the charges to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u253	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u254	Mr President, I wanted to conclude by saying that if the PSD were so concerned about the population and the efficiency of the State at the level of public services it would have voted in favour of the CFP initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u255	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u256	... because we put all these questions there: the need to define principles, criteria, a procedure, a methodology, so that the diagnosis of this impact would be prior to any decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u257	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u258	That was not the PSD decision. [[PCP applause.]] They are as responsible PS as PSD for what is happening right now and that is, in fact, a transfer of charges to the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u259	O Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u260	...and a total deresponsibility of the State in relation to its social functions. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologize for having "extended" the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u261	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u262	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mrs Paula Santos for the questions they have raised and also for the opportunity they give me to clarify, more and more, our thoughts on this matter and our concerns. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the PSD is very committed to this process because Portugal is one of the most centralised countries of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), as you know, and it is essential that Portugal decentralize, which is closer to citizens. We are concerned about people, Mrs. Deputies. This is a big difference we have in relation to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u263	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u264	The proposals they made in this debate, as you know, were very vague.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u265	And the PSD ones were none! That's what the PS sent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u266	The PSD has clearly engaged in this process, because it is a process of change, which can change the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u267	Worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u268	A close licensing of people, for example, accelerates, breaks down, simplifies, approaches and this is good for democracy, is essential for democracy. We believe this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u269	So there is no improvement!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u270	in respect of the framework law and the revision of the Local Finance Act, which are the fundamental bases and was what the PSD committed to, the PSD complied with its share.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u271	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u272	The PSD part has been voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u273	From there, there was the date of September 15, until the Government had to negotiate with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, where you also have autoarchs, competences and sectoral decrees, but should carry their financial envelope. And the government has completely failed! Well, that's not PSD responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u274	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u275	Didn't you see that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u276	What we were up to and what we wanted would happen, we did.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u277	A law that's not to be fulfilled? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u278	From that point on, the government has failed! Is it not good for the authorities, at the level of the review of the Local Finance Act, to have more VAT money, to have more money in the State IMI, in the devolved buildings, in the Financing Fund for Decentralisation? Oh, my God! Isn't this positive? Oh, my God! But, after all, what part are you guys not seeing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u279	Let's discuss the parish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u280	I understand that on the side of the CFP, which is one of the most centralised, centralizing and centralist parties I know, there are concerns about this matter. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u281	Let's discuss the parish and regionalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u282	I understand your planning economy, in which the central state commands everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u283	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u284	Therefore, I even understand why none of the authorities of the CDU accepted the competences; curiously, the others diverged, entered a gradual process. As for those of the PCP, no, not one wants to align!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u285	Obviously! They weren't skills, they were charges!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u286	We fully understand how difficult it is for you to get closer to people, to citizens, but so we do not get there, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u287	Talk about regionalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u288	The PSD believes in the process, trusts that this process is decisive and continues to bet on it. The government must stop failing and comply with what it has committed itself to. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u289	If it wasn't the awkward thing, I wouldn't bring the same subject here twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u290	Mrs. Members, who have made the political statements by the parliamentary groups, now have the floor for a political declaration under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Miranda Calha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Seventy years after the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Atlantic Alliance does not represent a great mystery to anyone and is part of the democratic day-to-day process of Europe and North America, understood today as a continent that is also brotherhoodd by its action. NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization) is perhaps the most successful international organization ever created, beginning with the lightness of its founding text, in which only 14 articles were sufficient to frame seven decades of activity, and ending in its ability to reinvent and adapt to reality, which has so often changed since April 4, 1949. NATO began by being only the almost personification of the altruistic spirit of the Dumas Musketeers and consolidated, decades later, as an important vehicle for transmission of the values of democracy, peace and security, without ever forgetting the maximum "one for all and for one". In the genesis of its creation there were three fundamental objectives: to deter Soviet expansionism, to prevent the rebirth of nationalist militarism in Europe, through a strong American presence on the continent, and to encourage European political integration. All of this is covered by Article 51. the Charter of the United Nations, which, about four years earlier, enshrined in an international treaty the right to self-defence. Despite the whole post-war context, signing the Washington Treaty was only the first step in a long way. of the signing of the Treaty to the effective operationalization of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, there was great commitment by its members to transform a treaty into an international organization. A war-torn Europe needed all support from the other side of the Atlantic, which began the day following the signing of the Treaty, when eight founding members requested military and financial assistance from the United States to fill the gap between the objectives of the Treaty and the capacities necessary to achieve it. A year later, under the Mutual Defence Assistance Act, the United States began sending military equipment to the European continent. However, until the Korean war, NATO was little more than a political association. It was only in June 1950 that the Alliance was forced to develop concrete military plans framed by a permanent military command structure. Europe's recovery in the following years has allowed us to move from the caretakerism to cooperation. In 1956, the Suez crisis challenged NATO in a different way. For the first time, as a result of the disagreement among its main founding members, the Alliance's cohesion was at stake. The Suez crisis ended up acting as a catalyst for the Alliance, leading to the implementation of what would be of vital importance to the unity and solidarity of the Alliance: the political consultation mechanism. The Suez crisis would end up being identified as the modern NATO engine. Until the end of the Cold War, NATO has overcome several challenges: the surveillance of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact; its first enlargement; the withdrawal of France from its military structure, which has, however, re-integrated. The greatest challenges of the Alliance, ironically, would only come with the fall of the Berlin Wall. The 1989 revolutions and the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact removed NATO's main opponent, in fact, and caused a strategic reassessment of NATO's purpose, nature, tasks and focus on the European continent. The first post-NATO Cold War expansion took place with German reunification and would have to give rise to a new role that would make the Alliance the axis of security policy across Europe and North America. NATO has extended to the east, supporting the democratic structures of the States that had been beyond the Iron Curtain. The Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council and the Partnership for Peace were fundamental instruments in this design. NATO was reinventing itself. Recognizing the military environment after the Cold War, he adopted a new strategic concept during the Washington Summit in April 1999 that emphasized conflict prevention and crisis management. In the light of the new responsibilities, we should remind the world of what was in the genesis of its creation, by intervening militarily as a result of the disintegration of Yugoslavia and the peace efforts that followed. But it was only at the age of 52 that NATO was to invoke for the first time its collective defence article, Article 5, in the wake of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States. o. Since then, the Alliance has demonstrated its unity in the missions performed in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, or in the fight against piracy in the Gulf of Áden. NATO’s creation can be seen as the main institutional consequence of a school of thought called “Atlanticism”, which has appreciated the importance of transatlantic cooperation. The Alliance is still today the realisation of the transatlantic link that unites Europe and America in a framework of common values, led by the defence of democracy and the rule of law. NATO today is more than a collective defence organization: it is a security community, a geographical space in which the conflict between its members is simply not a possibility. Portugal has known to be a respectable member within NATO, as attests to the good performance of our Armed Forces in all allied missions entrusted to it. At the political level, Portugal's participation in NATO was greatly strengthened by the 1976 Constitution and by the successive achievement of the objectives of the Alliance, reaffirmed without exception by all the presidents, governments and legislatures of this House, who are very proud to maintain a national delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. NATO is increasingly a regional organization with global responsibilities, cooperating with the world and the world for the values of peace, security and democracy. He will be able to continue to interpret the world in the coming decades, so that he can always juxtaise his founding treaty, being useful in all scenarios. The rest, of course, will be history. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u292	Mrs. Members, having completed the stage of the political declarations, we proceed to the joint discussion of Petition No 506 / XIII / 3. a ( National Association of Sergeants ) — Suspension of the effectiveness of RAMMFA — Regulation on the Evaluation of the Merit of Armed Forces Military and Resolution Projects Nos 1568/ XIII/3. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of the effectiveness and reassessment of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation and 1950 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government suspend the effectiveness of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation. To begin this debate, you have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first words are to greet the 4500 petitioners and the National Association of Sergeants that has stimulated this petition. [[PCP applause.]] In a clear way, petitioners pose the problem that the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation ( RAMMFA) is causing among the military. They warn petitioners that this evaluation mechanism has a strong subjective and discriminatory burden, which destabilizes the spirit of body and questions the cohesion and discipline of the Armed Forces. They further point out that this Regulation is conditional on the fair and coherent development of military careers, aggravated by the fact that there are a greater number of promotions to be made by choice. Indeed, with the application of this RAMMFA, there have already been military overruns by others of lesser age and that under the EMFAR ( Statute of Military Armed Forces ) will lead in the medium term to the compulsive transition of the military over the reserve situation. However, the PCP Parliamentary Group, echoing the concerns expressed, and in due course, sparked the debate on this Merit Assessment Regulation in the National Defence Commission, promoting the hearing of the professional associations of the military : the AOFA ( Association of Armed Forces Officers ), the ANS ( National Sergeants Association ) and the AP ( Association of Squares ). One of the main conclusions that we can draw from the hearings carried out is the imperative need to consider amendments to this Evaluation Regulation and to create an evaluation mechanism with greater objectivity, fairness, and without the arbitrary power that, today, the Chiefs of Staff have on this matter. However, successive changes imposed branch to branch and to the flavor of different perspectives and guidelines make it clear that the objective of unifying the merit assessment model is seriously compromised. Without the construction of a model of fair merit assessment based on objective criteria and where institutional missions are no longer valued than military missions, it is not possible to achieve internal cohesion in the Armed Forces. The solution for the PCP Parliamentary Group is the immediate suspension of the current model, the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulations and the construction of a new evaluation model from the hearing of military leaders and with the effective participation of military representative associations. We reject the idea that this process is closed and we believe that it is possible to build a regulation on the assessment of fair, equitable and balanced merit, which enables us to contribute to internal cohesion, a structural element and essential for the fulfilment of the missions that are responsible for the Armed Forces in accordance with the Constitution. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u294	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On January 1, 2018, the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulations came into force, which came to define the Military Military Merit Assessment System of the Armed Forces and establish instructions for its implementation. The application of this Regulation has given rise to a great deal of discomfort within the Armed Forces, which has led to the submission of the petition to the Assembly of the Republic which we are now discussing. For this reason, and first of all, I wanted to greet the petitioners and the National Sergeants Association who took up this citizenship task. The Left Block has not wasted your effort and we follow your claims. They state to the petitioners that the Evaluation Regulation calls into question the cohesion of the Armed Forces. This statement is not empty or purely theoretical, resulting from the application of criteria that carry a strong load of subjectivity and therefore a potential injustice. Moreover, petitioners make a statement that is of the greatest gravity. They say that the criteria of the Evaluation Regulation may affect the « constitutional principle of equality ». He therefore deserved all the attention from the Left Block. The specific cases that have been pointed out reinforce this idea of injustice, particularly in the list of assessed sergeants. The great weight of praise given by non-military entities, such as the President of the Republic or the Minister of Defence, sets out possibilities for changing the order of lists of assessments by purely political alignment criteria or as a reward for functions that have nothing to do with military status. On the other hand, greater arbitrary power is attributed to the heads of State-Major and there is a greater number of promotions made by choice, and this is also a detrimental factor to the full and complete development of military careers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation was created with the intention of ensuring that "the assessment of the military in the effectiveness of the service aims to assess the merit of the military, ensuring the development in their respective careers, based on the demonstration of military capacity and technical competence for the exercise of functions for which a particularly high level of responsibility is required." However, as previously stated and as the petitioners defend, the implementation of the Evaluation Regulation has turned out to be incompatible with a healthy military condition, leading to its decharacterization and adulteration. For this reason, the Left Block proposes the suspension of the effectiveness of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation and the initiation of an auscultation process to representative socio-professional associations and the heads of the various branches, to ensure the creation of a just and dignified evaluation status within the military. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u296	Now you have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, firstly, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the thousands of subscribers of this important petition that we are now discussing, greeting, this one, which we also want to extend to the National Association of Sergeants, which has promoted and dynamized this petition, this important instrument of our democracy which wants to be participatory, and, in particular, to those demanding military professionals who accompany us today in our work. In anticipation, the Greens wanted to say very clearly that they follow the concerns and objectives of the petitioners. In fact, as referred to in the text giving body to the petition, Portaria No. 301 / 2016 of 30 November, which approved the Regulation on the Evaluation of Military Merit of Armed Forces, without understanding very well why, came to remove several elements that sought to reduce, or even contradict, the burden of subjectivity and to remove discretion in the mechanisms for assessing the merit of the Armed Forces. Moreover, of the various hearings that this House has promoted with the various professional military associations, with regard to the application of this Regulation, approved by Portaria No. 301 / 2016, it was clear that these associations consider this Regulation a destabilization factor in relation to the spirit of the body, weakening even the cohesion and discipline in the Armed Forces. It was also clear that this Regulation should be reviewed, which is also a common concern for all professional associations of military personnel heard in the National Defence Commission of the Republic of Germany. In view of what has been said, the Greens follow the concerns of the petitioners with regard to the need to suspend the effectiveness of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation, which has been approved, as I said, by Ordinance No 301 / 2016, and will vote in favour of the two legislative initiatives which have been presented today and which are also under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u298	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, a greeting to the authors of this petition, as well as to the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left, which, with their initiatives, allow us to reflect on this matter, which is important. This Regulation ensures an alignment with that already provided for in the Statute of the Armed Forces, approved in 2015, and constitutes an important step towards deepening a cross-sectional view of the human resources of the three branches of the Armed Forces. For the assessment of the merit of the military, four aspects are considered: the individual assessment, whose performance involves 35 % to 40 % of the overall assessment; the formal evaluation; the disciplinary evaluation, which includes praises and penalties and implies only 10 % of the overall assessment; and the seniority at the post, which may involve 25 % to 30 % of the same overall assessment. It should be made clear that, in the disciplinary assessment—which, as I said, is valued only at 10 %—that the President of the Republic's praise is of greater value than the other praises merely reflect the hierarchy of the structure of the national defence, and this solution was already enshrined, for example, in the Military Merit Assessment Regulation. Having this Regulation on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Heads of State-Major, and finding that seniority is still very relevant for the advancement of military careers — since in the lower positions it is derived from diurnities, or even from antiquity, and that, in the mode of promotion by choice, minimum times of stay are required at the posts, not being therefore likely to exceed older military positions — the Socialist Party cannot, even though it is available to continue this reflection and perhaps for some improvements, follow for the time being the proposals submitted by the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u300	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. João Rebelo of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u301	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 4542 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, coming from the National Sergeants Association, making the person of your President, Sergeant Lima Coelho, that same greeting. I also publicly wish you, as well as your entire team, an excellent mandate, always in defense of the military and the associations you represent. I would also like to highlight the presence here of Mr. President of AOFA ( Association of Armed Forces Officers ) and Mr. President of the Square Association. They require petitioners to suspend the effectiveness of Ordinance No. 301 / 2016 of 30 November, which establishes the Merit Assessment Regulation of the Armed Forces. They allege that the application of that Regulation, and I quote, « destabilizes the spirit of body and questions the cohesion and discipline of the Armed Forces, competing for the decharacterization of military conditions ». They also argue, again, "the fair and coherent development of military careers, which is compounded by the fact that there are a greater number of promotions that are made by choice". Following this petition, the Left Block and the PCP each submitted a draft resolution to recommend that the Government proceed with the petitioners' claim. To be truly fair, I have to differentiate the two projects. Even if your intention is very similar, the way of realising is very different and deserves a word from me. The Left Block includes one point, which recommends to the Government the suspension of the Regulation and the holding of meetings with the representative associations and the military, and therefore does not leave much openness to our favourable vote. The CFP, more cautiously, divides the recommendation into three parts: the importance of hearings with associations to clarify doubts and to address sensitive issues; the promotion of necessary changes in conjunction with military leaders; and the suspension of the Regulation. This, on our part, allows it to be possible to weigh the vote in favour of two parts of this recommendation, so we will propose that the vote on this draft be taken into account, and we will vote in favour of two of these points. Finally, I must leave a brief note on the cause of the application for suspension of the Regulation. Decree-Law No 90 / 2015 of May 29, created an assessment system for the Merit of Military Armed Forces, decriminating the possibility of distortion in the flow of frames equated between branches and the possibility of the military, by individual option, to transit to the horizontal career model, ensuring, for example, the performance of positions and exercise of functions in areas requiring high component of specialization. in this line, the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation was established, which strengthened the weight of the individual assessment on the weight of the overall assessment, between 35 % and 40 %, the seniority in the position, by 25 %, and the individual training, between 25 % and 30 %. Thus, one of the concerns of the petitioners is, in particular, the disciplinary assessment of praise and punishment, which represents 10 % of the overall assessment. We accompany some of the concerns about this, in particular the fact that the praise made by politicians is greater than that of a military, when we know that the parameters of that same praise are always different when they are made by military or politicians. We are not devaluing, of course, the praise made by politicians, but they are different, the parameters are different and therefore they cannot deserve such a higher assessment of the praise made by politicians, to the detriment of the praise made by the military. Finally, I mean this regulation...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u302	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u303	Mr. President, I will finish. I am also referring to the fact that this regulation has been criticized not only by the military associations but also by the military leaders. The Assembly of the Republic should therefore make its contribution so that we can think more about what is at stake and allow for the improvement of the proposals that are currently in force. That is why we voted in favour of two of the Communist Party's proposals on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u304	I have the floor, for the last time in this debate, Mr Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation and promotion of the military are matters of fundamental importance for the proper functioning of the Armed Forces. The petition, which has as its first subscriber the National Association of Sergeants — whose leaders greet, as well as the leaders of the AOFA and the Association of Squares present here and, in their persons, all petitioners— aims to suspend the effectiveness of Ordinance No. 301/2016, of 30 November, which regulates the assessment of the merit of the military of the Armed Forces. According to the subscribers, this regulation destabilizes the spirit of body and questions the cohesion and discipline of the Armed Forces, competing for the decharacterization of the military condition. Similarly, the two draft resolutions under consideration, the CFP and the Left Block, are in the same direction, recommending that the Government suspend the effectiveness of the Military Assessment and Merit Regulation of the Armed Forces and promote the hearing of the military representative associations, in order to clarify the existing doubts and address the most sensitive issues. It seems to us, however, that there are limitations to the intervention of the Republic Assembly in this matter, unless we have a better opinion. In fact, the Assembly of the Republic has no power to suspend the effectiveness of a door, although it can recommend that the Government do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u306	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u307	However, this is still a relevant matter to discuss: what are the potential negative effects on the military institution that may result from an appropriate assessment system? According to the petition, when the impression of the military is most appreciated, instead of its time of service and effective performance, this brings serious damage to the military institution. We understand, however, that, as in everything in life, there is the rule and there is the exception. Thus, in our view, the general principle of promotion should be that of service time, but sometimes there will be situations in which clear distinctions may arise in the performance of the military and which may, and should, translate into a distinction between them, in order to choose the military considered more competent and with greater skill. In any case, it always seems good to us that, in drawing up a diploma — as is the case with this Ordinance — involving working conditions, associations representing professionals are also called upon to make their views on it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u308	Mrs. Members, let us move to the last point of our agenda, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 469 / XIII / 3. a ( Commission of Transport Users of the Sixth ) — For a better public service, claiming renewal and reinforcement of the Transtejo / Soflus fleet, together with Bill No 1093 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, including in the list of essential public services the passenger transport service, in general, and Resolution Projects No 1952 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By defence, qualification and promotion of public inland waterway transport service in Transtejo and Soflusa companies, 1953 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the signing of a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflusa and the approval of a multiannual investment plan 2019 - 2022, 1957 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of a public service of quality and efficient in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa and 1959 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the improvement of the public transport service carried out by Transtejo / Soflusa. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by congratulating the nearly 5,000 petitioners for bringing this important issue to debate. Due to a continued de-investment in the Transtejo / Soflusa, the company is currently undergoing a difficult situation, visible in increasing the number of boat suppressions, complaints and user protests, which requires urgent action. The signing of a new public transport service contract between the Transtejo and the State and the transfer to the first of the amounts relating to compensatory compensation are therefore crucial. In addition, more professionals need to be hired and invested in their training, as well as to develop a strategic intervention plan that includes investment in the re-qualification of installations, pointers and fleets, and acquisition of new vessels. But you need to go further. It must be recognized that passenger transport is an essential public service, something already assumed in Article 9. the Consumer Protection Act, thereby reinforcing the mechanisms for the protection of users. The current network of collective passenger transport is still insufficient, which justifies that many of the travels in large cities are made by car, with consequences for greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, sinequality and congestion. If, as a society, we assume the intention to decarbonise the economy and a model of sustainable development, we must take concrete steps to achieve this objective. The inclusion of the public passenger transport service in the Public Services Act, which the NAP proposes today, will contribute to a paradigm change, insofar as it will improve the quality of the service provided and strengthen the rights of users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u310	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through the PCP Parliamentary Group, we wish to send a strong greeting to the users of Transtex and Soflusa, to the committees of transport users, to the workers and their organizations, to the tireless work, to the constant and persistent struggle they have made, and to defend public services as a factor of development, public transport and mobility as a right of the people. The petition that these user committees submitted to the Assembly of the Republic — claiming better public service in river transport — was an important initiative, which effectively contributed to promoting discussion and action to respond to the problems of this service and these companies. In preparing the report of this petition, we held a wide range of hearings — including a public hearing in the river terminal — where it was possible to identify concrete problems and point to urgent solutions and needs. The central issue is to remove the proper illusions, in view of all this diagnosis that has been made, and to act concretely, consequently, without more time losses. Draft Resolution No 1952 / XIII / 4. the PCP, is an objective, constructive contribution to strengthen this demand for urgent intervention in the defence, qualification and promotion of public service in Transtejo and Soflusa. The progress achieved this month, with the cheapest passes, with more mobility and coverage, is a clear achievement of the struggle of transport users. But it is urgent and indispensable to advance and guarantee better public transport. It is necessary to meet the times, but also to strengthen the supply and restore the levels of service and the times that existed before the disaster policy and dismantling of the former PSD/CDS-PP government, which was only not further because local populations, workers and voters joined together and fought against this offensive. We cannot wait for the ships to arrive from here two or three or four years. We need to invest in maintenance now and ensure the necessary means, materials and humans, in service. The years go by and there is a huge shortage of staff in companies, with an unacceptable restriction on recruitment and investment. It is urgent to move forward in the recruitment of staff for all areas and services; in the re-qualification works of river terminals, especially of Cacilhas and the Barreiro; in the stability of financing and resource management; in the maintenance of ships, bridges, navigable channels. These problems are the direct result of right-wing policies, which were opening the door to privatization, through the degradation of public services. By option of the PS and PSD, the CFP proposals that in the State budget allowed for unlocking these situations and strengthening the means were rejected. Here too, again, we do not give up and reaffirm to users, to workers, to populations, who can continue to count on the CFP in this struggle, because every day it is confirmed and demonstrates that it is worth fighting. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u312	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by greeting the petitioners of the Sixth Committee on Transport Users and the Sixth Committee on Road Users, who brought this petition here to the Assembly of the Republic. This petition highlights the serious problems affecting the river crossings of passengers, which have been dragged down for a number of years and, as the petitioners say, well, in the text they have delivered here in the Assembly of the Republic, it is necessary to demand a high quality, efficient and safe public transport, requiring a set of measures that respond to the needs to restore the quality of service of river transport, as well as a mobility policy that bets on regular transport with extended schedules. We find ourselves determining, for the resolution of this problem, the allocation of funds for the repair and renewal of the fleet, as well as of the docking infrastructure. I have just read the text of the petition and it was a bit in this sense that the Left Block brought here and delivered here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on 28 January, a draft resolution that recommended to the Government three essential measures, the first of which was to sign a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflus within 90 days. The second measure was the opening of a public invitation to tender for the acquisition of new vessels by the end of the first quarter of 2019. The third was to approve, within 90 days, a multiannual investment plan for the period 2019 - 2022, including the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, the acquisition of new vessels, the admission of human resources and the requalification of access routes and points. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Government has done was to approve a plan of renewal investments for the acquisition of 10 new vessels, which aim to replace part of the fleet which is aging, in particular the Transtejo, but which does not respond to the remaining 15 vessels which continue to serve the Transtejo / Soflusa. It is precisely with this concern that we understand as fundamental that it is defined, and that the Government approves, a contract for the provision of public transport service for the next management period of the company. Without this public transport service contract, without the definition of public service contractual obligations, without the definition of the funds which regularly, annually, must be transferred...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u314	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u315	... for the investment and modernization of the Transtejo / Soflusa group, there will be no possibility of moving from lame measures, such as this, of investing in only 10 new ships, leaving behind much of the public transport service without the quality and efficiency required. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u316	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we have now discussed, as well as the Committees of Transport Users of the Sixth and Users of the Sixth Montijo Street and, in particular, the petitioners who accompany us here in today's work. As we know, Transtejo and Soflusa assume themselves as absolutely decisive elements with regard to the crossing of the Tejo and are structural in terms of mobility in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. However, given the importance they represent at the level of sustainable mobility, these companies should perform well, in terms of comfort, time savings, but also at the level of the quality of service provided to their users. It follows that, over the years, we have witnessed continued degradation, both in the Transtejo and in the Soflusa: hours that are not met, lack of workers in all areas, degraded ships, lack of investment in maintenance and repair, and, in fact, ships stopped at the yard waiting for repair, lack of reserve vessels and, often, several links are suspended, particularly in the hours of the end, leading to consequent delays. Furthermore, almost permanently users are confronted with warnings, which tend to become a rule, where they include such information as: « Due to operational constraints, the river connection is faced with service disturbances », « With less than one vessel operating, the careers of this river link may suffer delays and suppressions ». This is the day by day of the thousands of users who daily cross the Wall by river. This is no longer to speak of security problems, since there are regular failures in the doors and exits, in access to the respective ports and the chartering of the boats is not met due to constant suppression and interruptions. This is the direct result of years of underfinancing in the transport sector, but it is also the result of the policies imposed in the last years of the previous PSD/CDS-PP government, which have had root effects, which have been very visible and still feel very strongly today. This is the situation which is urgent to reverse, because it contravenes everything that a sustainable transport policy requires or presupposes. If we want to combat the threat of climate change, if we want to turn public transport into a real alternative to the use of private cars, we cannot be pushing people out of public transport. For this reason, over the years, The Greens have presented very varied proposals in order to promote effective policies of collective mobility, taking into account their broad and recognised environmental, social and economic benefits. And that is also why the Greens today bring the discussion a proposal to promote a public service of quality and efficient in river transport, both in Transtejo and in Soflusa, and which, in our view, meets the purposes and objectives of the petitioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u318	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Committee on Users and telling them that if, perhaps, they would be waiting for an apology from the Greens Ecological Party of the PCP, the Left Block and also the PS — the PAN has a different approach to which we do not disagree, but what we will certainly talk about next — this has not happened. After all, no! There must be a lot of cans,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u320	Lata? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u321	... it is necessary to have to face up to, instead of a formal apology to users or 2500 claimants, only in the Soflusa, in 2018, present draft resolutions. And what do those projects say? They say, in general, because they are almost copy paste, that the necessary measures are taken to put an end to the suspensions of careers in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa and to ensure strict compliance with the timetables. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, is that not what you said justified support for the Socialist Party and the creation of'management'? Oh, my God! Isn't that exactly what you promised six months after the elections? Oh, my God! And you guys are saying everything's about to be done? Oh, my God! Look, I know a lot of incompetent people, but have the can to write this, after four State budgets approved by VV. Ex., it's a shameless shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u322	All right! [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u323	But we can go further! What do the Greens, for example, include in point 2 of their project? That the Government « undertakes the urgent recruitment of workers necessary for the maintenance and normal functioning of the Transtex and Soflusa (...) ». I had the opportunity to hear Mr. President of Transtex and Soflusa say that there was a lack of staff everywhere. It wasn't last year, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u324	Don't! It was you! You're the ones who fired the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u325	... you have already supported the government and approved budgets. What have you gentlemen been doing? Oh, my God! So, you don't really take what Mr. President of the Soflusa says? Oh, my God! Don't you take her seriously? You come here, you complain, you claim, you say you have captives, you say you lack personal services everywhere, you don't have a public service contract... Have you ever asked the Socialist Party whether the public service contract is already made or are you waiting for the next government to make the public service contract? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u326	They asked, they asked! They asked two years later!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u327	Mr. Members, sometimes it is appropriate to respect the petitioners a little more, and it is certain that the petitioners are deeply familiar with these matters. Or we're here in front of an opposition simulation, which is what I think, or, then, we have to take something seriously. We see point 4 of the same project: it recommends that the Government « Proceed to the urgent opening of the competitive procedure necessary for the acquisition of vessels (...) ». Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the competition was opened on 15 February!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u328	And what date does the project have?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u329	Are you guys distracted? Do they no longer talk to each other, or do they now realize that they oppose each other? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u330	Say the date of the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u331	I understand, as Mr Bruno Dias says, that boats cannot be for 2020, because they will be for 2021, 2022 and 2023! I understand that you do not believe or take seriously the proposals for open contracts of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u332	You wanted to privatize the companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u333	...but whoever approves here Budgets, who has constituted a lying government,... [[It was the CDS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u334	... because everything here is a lie, it was the Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block, which, in four State budgets, managed to support and managed to give the Soflusa and Transtex the lie that everything will be solved, which is not true. Do you know what Mr. Environment Minister, responsible for these transports in 2017, said? He said the year 2017 was the year when the Portuguese would finally have quality public services — and that is why companies became public — criticizing the previous government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, I ask: where is the solution that you are asking for? The gentlemen should, if there were...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u335	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u336	I shall finish by respecting the will of Mr President...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u337	I'm very grateful.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u338	... regretting that, in fact, this'management' is a useless in the management of the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u339	But it's CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u340	...and will stay in history as responsible for the end of quality public transport in Transtejo and Soflusa. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u341	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, of course, the petitioners and those who have brought initiatives here. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I would not start on the right, but must it be: « can»? Oh, my God! Lata was the state in which you left the boats, which were in can mode, except the one that was good and that you decided to sell.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u343	Go see the Memory of the Troika and see what there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u344	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk calmly about the conditions of operation of the fleet, quality, regularity and reliability. The users deserve to know, for our part, the answer to the question put here by Mr Hélder Amaral. What's been done? A lot has already been done, and that is why it is worth saying what has already been done. First of all, a company agreement was made that brought social peace to the company. I know this, to you, doesn't tell you anything, but, of course, for the operation was an important thing that the left has achieved. But more, Mr. Deputies, let's talk a little bit about maintenance. Mr. Member, in 2015 the Soflusa had planned for its Government EUR 5 million for maintenance. Do you know how much has been accomplished? Two, three million have been completed! Cruel captivating! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u345	What now?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u346	We are now going to the « now », Mr. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u347	What about the ships?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u348	For Transtejo, in 2015, there were 5, 7 million for conservation and you executed 1, 7 million. I shall repeat, Mr President : you have executed 1, 7 million! But did the honourable Member ask 'and now? And since he should not be afraid, I would like to tell him what happens now. I have here a chart that records the evolution of what has been done. Yeah, there's still a way to do it, but there's a recovery. In 2017, you know what we had to do, besides getting back what you didn't invest? We had to pay the costs of the options they didn't take, because those who don't do the maintenance, then pay to double. These are the effects of austerity on the retarder that you pretend there is no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u349	What did they do to the ships that stayed there? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u350	Nothing, sir? Oh, my God! We didn't do anything? Oh, my God! It was 10 new vessels, EUR 57 million and now plus EUR 33 million for large maintenance. Do you think this is nothing, Mr? Oh, my God! Well I know that someone on the right, probably from the PSD, where they're a little bit more distracted by these things, will come to say that no boat has yet arrived, but that's because the PSD thinks there are boat stands and minds to people and users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u351	I'm not the one saying, it's the PCP and the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u352	For us, users deserve much more respect and, therefore, we say that we are doing what has not been done and what has to be done so that no one has to have an inheritance like that which you have left. Mr President, we have already talked about the public service contract, which is at the final stage of drafting, but still through resolutions of the Council of Ministers, it has been possible to pay compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u353	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u354	But this does not satisfy us, and therefore the public service contract is being drafted and will soon be completed, because, as has been said very well, it is extremely necessary. I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that the current competition has something that very well characterizes the right-wing position today and always in this debate. Do you know how much the investment we're talking about? Of EUR 91 million! Do you know how much that represents? In four years, the VV government. Ex.a. had an investment of 75 million for all public transport. We, only in the Soflusa / Transtejo Group, will invest more than you invested in four years. Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, to conclude, allow me just to remind you of the following : do you know what is in common with TAP, Caris, the STCP, the Metropolitan Transport Society of Porto, SA? It's just that you guys wanted to privatize, mess up, ruin and crush. Do you know why that didn't happen to the Soflusa / Transtejo? Because they didn't have time! It's just that what you guys were doing was throwing away to privatize. This is the respect that you have for your users, this is the difference that makes a left-wing majority in Portugal, a majority that defends public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u355	The last intervention in this debate lies with Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners and Users : Ana Paula, a medical action assistant at the Egas Moniz Hospital, has to be there every day at 8 a.m. to replace the shift colleague. Regularly, it arrives after 9 hours. What's the reason? Removal and excess of lotion on boats. Carlos Alberto missed a frequency in college. On Monday, Maria João had a consultation for her baby and couldn't even arrive in hours. Joaquim Santos, the President of the City Hall of Sixal, tells us that this situation of insufficient boats and with successive failures comes from two years ago to this part. Throughout the entire term of office, he has repeatedly warned the Government. Transtejo and Soflusa recorded 2500 passenger claims in 2018, one year marked by strong user challenge due to delays and suppressions, and the fleet recorded an operational rate of 55 %. Take a good look: half of the boats didn't walk. It was the most negative year in terms of travel made and record in lost passengers transported. Between January and October 2017, 1519 trips to Soflusa were abolished. For Seixal's career, it's enough to miss a boat for people's lives to be a hell. At the peak time, the offer is 16 boats. Lacking a boat, they can only offer eight. River transport in the Tejo is a key factor for the development of the region, it must constitute a structural avenue of the daily mobility of thousands of passengers originating in Almada, the Sixal, the Barreiro and the Montijo and not the intransponible wall that citizens face daily. So a word for these passengers who suffer horror every day. From the abolition of careers to delays, to over-charging boats, terminals without the minimum dignity, lack of security, lack of public information, system ofbiletics with disabilities, there is everything. The situation is so dramatic that the failure of a ship to cross becomes a hell. In response to this chaos, the government of promises, electoral bombs, 3D-populated ads, what do you do? Nothing! Make a purchase announcement of 10 boats from 2020. We are in April 2019, Mr. Member, and have not yet received proposals, have not examined proposals, have not awarded, have no prior opinion of the Court of Auditors, have not signed a contract, have not made the order, the construction has not been carried out, but, see, the first ship has already come here in 2020. According to the forecasts—and I am in favour of this situation—if everything goes well and if the competitors do not claim, the first ship will not be here before 2022. And then between 2019 and 2022, what is the government's response? Zero! Where are the immediate measures for the maintenance and hiring of human resources to solve immediately the problems affecting these thousands of people who daily need the boat to work, study or use a medical act? By the way, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, there is no answer. With regard to vessels sold, you have already sold one in this mandate; with regard to investment, captivating and your de-investment, I say the following: the previous government had EUR 1, 7 million for investment;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u357	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u358	... the current government has EUR 1, 2 million. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u359	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this item on the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos to provide some information to the plenary. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u360	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1192 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Amends the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the possibilities for recourse to decisions that affect fundamental values( 8 ). the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and 34. the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) and draft resolutions No 2107 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government step up the fight against invasive exotic species, 2108 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's Programme of Work for 2019 and 2109 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a teacher recruitment group in early childhood intervention. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-10.u361	Mrs. Members, tomorrow, the plenary will meet at 3 p.m., with a marking of the Greens Ecological Party to discuss, in general, the Bill No 1187 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Determines the need for an alternative to the provision of plastic bags and plastic buckets at the points of sale of bread, fruit and vegetables. At the end of the sitting, there is a vote at point two. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to continue in the afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
