ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we will begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Let us start the work, the first of which is an urgent debate required by the Left Block on the subject of "combating precariousness". To open the debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Marinalva, Rosalina, Maria João, Célia, Eliana, Liliana, Nicole, Charles, Denilse, Maria Juventude, CATIA Nunes, Illuva, Cátia Silva, Diraci. These are the names of some of the family assistants who spoke in Parliament yesterday at the invitation of the Block. Almost all women, many blacks, migrants, are 600 professionals working for the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon who provide home support to those who have the most difficulties — the elderly, the disabled, the dependent. They have a schedule and a "doctor" to whom they respond, but the Holy House does not contract them. There are 4, 5, 9, 14, 17, 19 years ago the fake green receipt. They care for others for need, but also for love, but no one cares for their rights. They do not have equal pay holidays — they are green receipts. They have no right to strike — they are a green receipt. They work at the weekend and serve meals at night at the home of people who need care, but do not earn night allowance — they are green receipts. They have pain on their knees to go up and down stairs, they have arthrosis, tendonitis, they catch the diseases of patients who care (sarina, tuberculosis... ), they have the immense wear of the profession, but health insurance does not cover these risks and rarely recognizes them as occupational accidents. They're a green receipt. «We are what we have left», they told us yesterday. «We are the blacks, the Brazilians, who have no right to contract or to choose the users», told us yesterday. « Make our voices come where we cannot enter», they told us yesterday. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, respect comes from a Latin verb that means looking. Respect is the right to be seen, it is the right to be seen. If there is an obligation of democracy, it is to look at who, being as essential as these people, is also more invisible. Our debate today is about this, about precariousness and therefore about respect. We are talking about family assistants because they are an example of precariousness that remains, in a sector that remains outside PREVPAP(Special Regulatory Programme of the Precincts in Public Administration) because it is private, but in this particular case it is even protected by the Minister of Labour. Today we are presenting a project on this case and we leave a challenge to the Government and to the Members. Members, particularly Mr. Minister : repeals the 1989 Cavaco Silva decree, which denies a contract to family workers. These 600 workers are recognized as the most basic labour rights they are being denied. What we defend for the family assistants, we also defend for the friends. In the Santa Casa, which is little holy with regard to the rights of those who work, continue the green receipt. But also those of social security, which have already had a positive opinion and its approved process, but they continue to wait for the government to comply with what it has already announced several times. To date, despite the positive opinion, they have not been called to the contest under PREVPAP, nor have they been informed of how they will be integrated. In addition, other cases of PREVPAP are being dragged. It is carried out at RTP, with 143 precariouss pending the CAB ( Biparty Evaluation Commission ) or the Finances, and the Azores precariouss waiting for the Administration, which does not comply with the court's orders. It is carried out at the Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, at the INIAV — National Institute of Agrarian and Veterinary Research — or at the IEFP, Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. But if the State's precariouss have in PREVPAP a resource and an instrument to fight for their bonds, what about the hundreds of thousands of private precariouss, who continue to be victims of the most varied abuses? in a country where precariousness is largely due to the transgression of the law, we need a much stronger and more active Labour Conditions Authority. We need campaigns that go through companies, call centers, private institutions, editorials and that make it compulsory for the law to be respected and contracts to be concluded. This is to regulate the false green receipts, but not only to regulate contracts, such as that of Randstad, in which a worker is hired to work 40 hours a month in the PT Sales, of the Altice Group, but earns less than the minimum wage. Or as contracts that exist from outsourcing with Egor, for the same Altice, where the working time is defined as follows: 40 hours a week between 0 and 24 hours. I mean, any time of day. The employer will soon decide... And more: they say these contracts that «the work in addition will not be considered as additional work, being paid for by the normal time». It's a mine! Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, standards such as these should be considered null and the Bloc currently has a proposal on this. But more: the abuse of outsourcing, which is probably the biggest way of precariousness today, has to be fought. When it is just a labour supply, workers must have contracts with the company where they actually work. But we are not just talking about outsourcing, green receipts, long-term contracts, temporary work. We are talking about situations like, for example, that of the worker of Glovo, who is cycling to deliver meals. Is he a worker? Yes, of course it is! With whom does the work relationship establish? With the Platform that assigns you the work, which defines the schedules, which tells you what to go for, which defines the price you will receive for each trip, which puts on your bicycle the thermal bag and plastic box with the company logo where you carry the food, which offers you the windshield you wear. But what contract does this worker have? A contract of employment? No, of course not. It's a commercial contract—not work! — between Glovo and a « liberal professional», the boy who walks on the bike delivering meals... Go there, professional risks, social security, is all on account of our liberal professional. And, of course, vacation, strike, it's something that doesn't assist you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Labour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal has more employment today, but we are still a country of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u4	To combat precariousness, we need to face three challenges: firstly, look at the new precautionary schemes and prevent them from spreading; secondly, change the law of work and change the rules of precariousness;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u5	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... thirdly, the State has to set an example as an employer, regulating pending cases in PREVPAP, but also making combating precariousness a national priority in the field of supervision. That's why we're here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u7	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Left Block Parliamentary Group understood that the issue of precariousness is an important issue. It is so important that an urgent debate in this House should be scheduled. The first and perhaps the most significant message that the Government can bring to this debate is precisely to affirm an agreement with the centrality and importance of this debate. Precautionary is a theme of greater importance not only for the labour market but for our whole society and, in particular, for hundreds of thousands of very young workers and their families. That is why combating precariousness has been, and will continue to be, one of the main priorities of the government. That is why the Government approved and sent to the House almost a year ago a bill implementing dozens of measures to combat precariousness, as well as the recovery of collective bargaining, after a deep and extensive debate in Portuguese society. That is why the Government expects the translation of this priority and a concern that we believe to be a majority in the country, and also in this Parliament, with concrete and significant steps to combat precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Portuguese labour market has evolved positively in the recent period. In three years, the unemployment rate dropped from 12, 2 % in the last quarter of 2015 to 6, 8 % in the first quarter of this year, declining to 2004 levels, and consolidated monthly data indicate that this rate continues to fall. In the monthly data available between December 2015 and February 2019 there are more than 359 000 people employed in Portugal ; less than 283 000 unemployed than when the government took possession; less than 47,000 young people unemployed. In quarterly data, fewer than 58 000 young unemployed; less 230 000 long-term unemployed; less 72,000 inactive discouraged. But from a qualitative point of view, in Portugal today there are fewer than 43 000 part-time workers than there were three years ago, less 57 000 persons in part-time underemployment, less people in unpaid family work, less self-employed. On the contrary, of the more than 350 000 net jobs created over the last three years, most are permanent jobs. The net average wage income of workers on behalf of others rose 8, 2 % in three years, almost four out of every 10 of the net jobs created has wages above 1200 € per month. The rate of poverty among workers fell from 10, 9 % in 2015 to 9, 7 % in 2017. The gap between the richest 80% and the poorest 20% fell from 5, 9 % to 5, 2 %. These results are achieved through economic dynamism and a solid macroeconomic strategy and, of course, by the replacement of workers' and families' incomes. Results also achieved thanks to the repositioning of levels of confidence of all actors, in a framework of stability and predictability based on a permanent dialogue. And with clear changes to the strategy of impoverishment and a scrupulously fulfilling the commitments made. Change in active employment policies, now clearly oriented towards the promotion of stable and quality employment. Change in the national minimum wage with the nominal increase of almost 19 % in four years, an increase that not only did not harm the economy, contrary to what many threatened, as after all, helped to recover income, restore confidence and correct wage inequalities and poverty at work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Change in the self-employed regime with a new contribution regime and better social protection. Change also in collective bargaining, which has become defended and promoted, rather than destabilized and devalued, with the replacement of the extension gates of the conventions, in good time. This is the point where we find ourselves: more employment; more full-time employment and permanent contracts; better wages; better skills and professional progression horizons. However, we cannot emphasise that, despite all these progress made in recent years, Portugal continues to have very significant levels of precariousness. The weight of non-permanent contracts fell from 22, 2 % in the fourth quarter of 2015 to 21, 3 % in the first quarter of this year. It's not enough! It is not enough for the importance of this issue, it is not enough for what we aspire to! I therefore conclude this initial intervention as I began: affirming the importance and urgency of this reflection, the importance and urgency of adopting concrete measures capable of continuing to change the labour market in Portugal, with the ability to address the problems that we have not to question the ability to create jobs, and quality employment, and in particular by combating the most serious forms of precariousness, with also capacity to strengthen collective bargaining and social dialogue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u9	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u10	... with the capacity to guarantee support in Portuguese society for an agenda to promote the quality of employment. This is the expectation of Portuguese society! This is the way the government will continue to go! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first round. For clarifications, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today, at the request of the Left Block, we are discussing precariousness, a relevant issue that must continue to deserve our attention, but above all that requires public policies that effectively combat it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u14	This is therefore also an important moment and an excellent opportunity for the government and its supporters to explain what they are doing. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, Portugal is one of the countries with one of the highest precaution rates of the European Union. It's not the PSD that says it, it's the data that they say it, it's the Minister who just said it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u15	The PSD said otherwise!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u16	The government — they notice — which says that it wants to integrate precariousness and regularize the situation of precariousness is the same government that hires precariousness. This is the way to function unacceptable, but already customary, to which this government and this majority have used us. In fact, it is appropriate to say: look at what I say, but do not look at what I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u18	I say I will fight precariousness, but I continue to hire precariousness in public service. [[PSD applause.]] Since the current majority and the Minister have just reaffirmed that one of the main concerns and one of the priorities of the Government is to combat precariousness, this is the moment, almost at the end of the Parliament, which has returned four years, to say, Minister, that the Government has failed. The government has failed because the number of final contracts in the State has increased, because they have created a programme for the integration of precariouss which is not being met and which has created a set of injustices and expectations in people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u19	We're waiting for the PSD program!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u20	The government has failed because the state machine is totally ineffective to respond to people. Mr Minister, let's talk here about a very serious problem that affects many people: reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u21	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u22	Minister, there are more and more pensioners waiting to receive your pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u23	So, isn't it about precariousness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u24	There have been pensioners for over a year without receiving their pension. It's so serious that they don't get any income...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u25	That's not precarious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u26	This is precarious, social inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u27	Read the order of business!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u28	Mr Minister, there are more pensioners with no income and this situation has already led to the intervention of the Ombudsman. Now, I ask you what reply you gave to the Ombudsman, who called for urgent measures. He didn't give an answer! It is appropriate to say that, in addition to unacceptable and unacceptable, it is a total lack of respect for the people to whom they have created expectations, who have the right to receive their income and their reforms and do not receive them and to those entities who have the right to receive answers and cannot obtain them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has to explain what it is doing and how it will resolve these issues. Combating precariousness means having a strategic and integrated vision for sustainable economic growth, which can guarantee more employment, better employment, more income and thus better quality of life. This, yes, is to fight precariousness. Mr Minister, therefore, even though we have a growing economy, we are indeed faced with worrying numbers and data, because in addition to having, as I have already mentioned, one of the greatest precaution rates of the European Union, we are one of the least growing countries in the European Union. This is a matter of fact that requires answers. Even before I put the final questions, I would like to say that one of the legislations that helped some aspects improve in the private sector — as the Minister mentioned — in particular the biggest ever contract in the private sector, was the legislation that is still in force today. And whose legislation is that? It is from the previous government, PSD / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u31	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u32	Mr Minister, after the various demands of your coalition partners, which call for the reversal of these measures, it is also necessary to explain, in fact, what position you have in relation to these reversion requirements. Even to finish, Mr Minister, as this recent and worrying news explains to us that the economy is growing less, that productivity is dropping and blocking wage increases, that unemployment and employment rates reveal less positive data,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u33	In unemployment, there are no barriers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u34	...that the tax burden is the greatest ever. How does this government failure explain? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u35	I call on the services to ensure that the times exceeded in the first round are discounted in the second round for all parliamentary groups. Mr Rui Riso of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by making just a small comment on the previous speech by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes on the delays in the payment of pensions. About these difficulties, which have been explained several times here, to solve the problem of delays in the payment of pensions, people are needed and in social security there are 600 missing. There's no automatic work! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Moreover, I must also remind everyone that it is true that the problem is in resolution, but everyone knows the competitive bureaucratic difficulties of admission to public service workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u37	Ahh! So that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u38	The gentlemen could have chosen something different, they could not have sent 600 workers, although they could not have sent workers to requalify...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u39	Not a single one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u40	...and probably, today, social security would always be working in time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any case, I must say the following: this debate on the precariousness that has been brought here today is always welcome, because this discussion, not being a matter that is resolved, is always welcome. Unfortunately, televisions only allow for a week's back in programming. Over the past week, there has been a lot to see back, but if televisions allowed to go back a few years, there would be even more to see, in particular, with regard to the precariousness and treatment that has been addressed in the previous government. It would have been good if the data that the National Institute of Statistics has been revealing on employment growth and unemployment reduction could be reviewed in the television programmes since then, in order to have the comparative data here. Allow me here to make some comparisons with 2015 because it is worth reviewing. The Stability Programme submitted in 2015 by the previous Government for 2019 provided an unemployment rate of 11, 1 %. This was the forecast of the stability plan, with the work measures that the previous government has taken — the PSD Members say — to increase employment! 11, 1 % was the forecast that the PSD Government had in May 2015, I think for 2019, therefore without the intervention of this Government. Well, the unemployment rate announced today is 6, 4 % and certainly was not due to the measures taken by the previous government because the measures it had taken pointed to an unemployment rate of 11, 1 %. Therefore, if the rate today is 6, 4 % is because someone took another type of measures, someone made the economy and employment grow so that the unemployment rate would not be the 11, 1 % then expected and the 6, 4 % referred to today by the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ). Still, why? Some of these figures have already been mentioned here, but there are fewer than 200 000 unemployed, there are more than 300 000 workers on behalf of others, there are more than 270 000 workers with unlimited links and 20 400 with a term in the new contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u42	This has some meaning in what has been done. Yes, it is true that the process is not completed. No, it's not done, but this is a job you'll always have to do. We have also been paying attention to the issue of young unemployment, which in 2015 had a 32 % rate and today has a 16 % rate, 5 % rate. They'll ask me if this job is over. No, this is a worrying job, because today the labour market does not generate sufficient demand for the most qualified generation we have and still leaves 16 % out of jobs. This is not the government's fault, perhaps it is the fault of the legislation that the PSD claims to have been job-creating but that it has not been able to create work for these 16, 5 % ; as it also provided for an 11 % rate instead of 6, 4 %. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u43	It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u44	Don't get mad! You yourselves do not believe in what they have drawn. But there is more: regarding collective bargaining, which we all know...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u45	That's contradictory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u46	It's not! Think about it! Contradictions are many and, in the last week, you don't even want to know. The story of speaking-CL will be about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You can go back up to eight days to see the previous news, so see what's worth it! With regard to the collective contract referred to here — and well — by the Minister, on the subject of social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u47	Collective hiring of families!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u48	... I just remember that in 2008 we moved to 1 900 000 workers protected by collective bargaining. They've reached 247 000, but today we're close to 1 million. See how difficult it is, however, to recover the collective contract destroyed at a time when everything would make it believe that it was not the intention of the government, but that every day it destroyed it with limitations and restrictive rules. I have already mentioned the young unemployment rate and the fact that this is the great concern that we should all have, because we are calling into question a generation. I would like to remind you that precariousness is very good and reproduces itself with high unemployment rates. This is what you have done! While they maintained high unemployment, they allowed precariousness to proliferate, because it lives together and reproduces in times of high unemployment, as well as the decline in rights in that period. Put your hand on your conscience, go with the film back and you'll see that we're right. We know that we are on the right path, the Portuguese workers know - and also know that this path is what will be continued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u49	Mr President, you are aware that, in the second round, the PS Parliamentary Group will have less time at its disposal. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, let us, perhaps, refocus the debate on the topic marked, so that we can actually talk about the model of work organization we want for the country. That is why this debate, for us, is so urgent and we have often put the same urgency and respect for those who work in our country. Despite the various advances we made with PREVPAP, for example, with what this program meant and with the signal it gave to the country, we knew that it was necessary to go further, meaning this in private, to go to the Labour Code. The truth is that we cannot continue to spread the fight against precariousness, to affirm the defense of this debate, and then to make agreements with the patronage, with the PSD and, now, with the CDS in terms of social consultation. The so ill-advised proposal that the Government has to amend the Labour Code is exactly that, but we are still in time to approve the proposals that the Left Block has put forward and that are effectively improving the Labour Code and combating precariousness. Mr Minister, we have asked very specific questions here in the first speech which we would like to have answered. First of all, about the family assistants of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. We speak of more than 600 workers who have been at false green receipts for decades because of a 1989 decree-law, completely dated in relation to their situation, without the minimum social protection, health protection, hygiene and safety at work. Many of these workers, whom we heard yesterday, have had no breaks for another year, which means 365 days working every day, without stopping, without vacation, with very low wages. Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Labour protects the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon, so you have to have an answer to these more than 600 workers who are in this situation. We have also put here the question of social security lovers. We know that they have made a tremendous struggle for several years and, finally, many of them have already approved processes. But despite all the promises made during this year of 2019, that the process would be completed and that they would finally have their contract of employment, they remain unanswered. When will the finalization of the process of approval of social security lovers be completed? On the other hand, we also have the problem of the regulation of the call centres which has been approved in this House not so long ago, and the government is now responsible for regulating a sector which covers more than 80 000 workers and workers in our country. When will the government respond to something that has already been approved in this Parliament? We have asked questions here about the 'gurisation' of the economy, Glovo, for example, and those work on which it participates through a platform where workers have no right. How does the Government intend to respond to this problem? In all this, and to conclude, we know the very important role that the Act (Working Conditions Authority) has, essentially, a strengthened Act. In the 2016 Budget, we approved a contest for 122 new inspectors. The question is: when will this invitation to tender be completed? It is that these workers are essential to enforce the Labour Code and go further in combating precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u51	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister and other government members, Mr and Mr. Members, working precariousness is a real problem that especially affects young people and that concerns the CDS. contrary to what is defended by the left, the CDS knows that the more rigid labour legislation is, the more precarious the jobs created.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u54	Besides, the job numbers are there to prove it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u55	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u56	So far, there was no labour legislation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u57	It is with this existing labour law, approved by the PSD and the CDS, that economic growth and job creation have been possible. More: it is worth stressing that this job creation has had more jobs created without term than term. We can never forget—we will never forget—that, contrary to what PS, Left Block and PCP always said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u58	And the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u59	... that this labour law would increase unemployment and lay-offs, which happened exactly the opposite: employment not only increased, as it increased with more quality. In fact, Mr Rui Riso, even now, here in the plenary, has just said. We know that we have pending a proposal for reform of labour legislation in the Assembly of the Socialist Party. We have the notion that this proposal does not go exactly in the right direction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u60	Are you going to approve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u61	... but since it was accepted by workers, employers and the government in a social agreement, the CDS will not make it impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u62	As the bosses have signed, the CDS has already accepted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u63	It is also very clear that the CDS will not accept that the PS is responsible here in the Assembly of the Republic, which its Government has signed in the seat of social consultation. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u64	And the CDS proposals are what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u65	The CDS also does not accept that parties, such as the Left Block and the PCP, which do not respect social consultation—in fact, do not support it—will want to destroy the social agreement reached and signed by the three parties in the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u66	It is important that it be clarified here whether the PS and the PS Government will fully respect the social agreement they have signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u67	Ask the partners of social dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u68	Let me now say this: we know that those who have worked all their lives, with this government and at this time, cannot reform themselves — wait and despair in social security. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] We also know that, with this government, anyone who wants to professionally qualify the most likely is not to have vocational training, because the money for vocational training, even if they are not subject to captivity, is not executed and the lack of qualification of workers impairs employment. We also know that those who say that they do not like precariousness, such as the current government and the Socialist Party, as well as the parties that support it, are the government that increases precariousness in the state, with more end-to-end workers and with more service benefits than ever before in the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u69	The CDS has short memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u70	So it was good that they would explain what they were coming for. And, as far as numbers are concerned, these are absolutely unforgettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u71	There is no precaution in unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u72	If they do not like precariousness, then they do not create precariousness, they do not continue to create precariousness, as you have done in the state. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u73	No one believes that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u74	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr Minister, in recent decades in the private sector and in the public sector, precariousness has changed from exception to rule, and it was not by mistake or distraction. It was by political option of successive governments, PS, PSD and CDS, to impose less wages and more time and not to apply rights. Pre precaution has served as a political option for successive governments to replace workers with rights by workers without rights and to remove collective bargaining and the guarantee of rights to thousands of workers in this country. [[PSD protests.]] It has been a lot of imagination: through internships, scholarships, term contracts, false green receipts, subcontracting of workers, outsourcing and temporary work... All this is precarious and all this, Minister, in the overwhelming majority of situations, is illegal! And it is illegal, because in the overwhelming majority of situations it is workers who respond to permanent needs, but never had an effective bond. In the face of all this, and on precariousness we refuse to speak to the PSD and the CDS because they are responsible, direct and indirect, for the worsening of precariousness — precariousness for all workers was what they presented to the country as state policy — what did the Government and the PS present to the Assembly of the Republic? They presented a proposal for an extension of the experimental period up to 180 days; a proposal for the generalization of very short-term contracts, oral contracts, which were driven only by agriculture and which the proposed law, of the Government, or extending to other sectors, such as tourism, where precariousness is already 'our daily bread'; a proposal for the application of a permit rate of turnover of workers. When there were conditions today in the Assembly of the Republic to go much further in the fight against precariousness, the PS option is to legalise precariousness! Mr Minister, the precariousness must be eradicated, it cannot be legalized! The objective should be to eradicate precariousness, as the commitment to eradicate child labour was assumed. Therefore, it should be ensured that a permanent job always corresponds to an effective link, either in RTP, IEFP (Instituto de Emprego e Formation Professional ), in schools, in the National Health Service, in ANA Airports, in Portway, on large commercial surfaces, in the call center of EDP, MEO, PT, in the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon, where all these workers must be integrated into the business frameworks. As for the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, Minister, I wanted to say the following: the CFP, in 2016, presented a question to the Government on the situation of illegal recourse to false green receipts in the hiring of family aid. In 2016, the Government's response was that in two years, the Santa Casa had 20 inspection actions. We ask: after 20 inspection actions, what is lacking in order to ensure the immediate integration of family workers into the picture of the Holy House? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u77	How many more inspection actions are needed to ensure the fulfilment of the right of these workers, the recognition of their bond and their integration into the frameworks of the Holy House of Mercy? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, paying a fee and keeping precarious workers is to maintain illegality. And it is, in fact, to the side where the economic groups sleep better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u78	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u79	As long as they are able to pay fees and maintain the turnover of workers, that is what the economic groups want. Therefore, what is required is, exactly, to guarantee a permanent job and an effective contract for all workers. Thus, within a few weeks, we will have the opportunity to discuss proposals from the CFP, in the field of specialty, ensuring that an effective permanent link to a job! Then let's see who's going to support the government: if it's the PSD and the CDS that will support the PS and the government in worsening precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u81	... or if it is going to be the PS to want to take a turn in strengthening workers' rights, ensuring employment with rights, the general increase in wages, the increase of minimum wage, to €850 and the defense of collective bargaining, the defense of employment with rights for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u82	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Minister, as mentioned in the rostrum, the fight against work insecurity has been assumed as one of the priorities of this Government. And at a good time he assumed it as such, because, in fact, precariousness was installed in such a way that he ended up taking into account the reality of work in our country, both in the private sector and in the public sector, in fact, with the state itself setting a bad example. It was through term contracts, temporary employment contracts, false green receipts or scholarships and insertion contracts, all served to sow precarious work and disrespect those who worked. It was years of trying to transform work precariousness as a rule in labour relations, a situation which, in fact, gained a new dimension with the policies and options of the PSD/CDS government which clearly, without any shame, imposed its intention to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. That is why we need a serious fight against the serious problem of precariousness in our country. Thus, we say: although PREVPAP has been put in place, in spite of the fact that at this stage of the process, many of the employees of the Public Administration or the State's business sector continue without green light for their fair regularisation. Still, we hope that the government will conclude the process, ensuring that all workers who respond to the permanent needs of the services are effectively linked. In this respect, Mr Minister, there can be no « but », no means « but », and the exercise is very easy to do: the permanent needs of the services must correspond to their effective link. However, Mr Minister, the fight against precariousness is not limited to workers in the public sector. The State must definitely end with lying and fraud in labour relations, whether in the public sector or in the private sector. As far as the private sector is concerned, although the Government continues to say that it is committed to combating precariousness, there are some proposals from the Government on employment that the Government itself has not yet been able to explain how these same proposals contribute to this fight. I therefore leave you with the following question, Minister : we know that the experimental period represents an element of even more serious precariousness than the contracts themselves in the long term, since it allows dismissal at any time and without any kind of compensation for the worker, I would like to know how the Government fits into the proposal to extend the experimental period in the fight against precariousness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u84	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions that have been raised. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, it is remarkable that she has the capacity of the Member, looking at the labour market in Portugal and what happened in the last three years, to consider that government policies have been a "failure" — the words of the honourable Member. Another 350 000 jobs is a failure? Oh, my God! When you predict an unemployment rate of 11 % for 2019, do you think 6, 7 % is a failure? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mrs. Member, it's not just these numbers. in these three years, job creation on behalf of others was even the most relevant of total employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u86	I said that too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u87	in these years, in employment on behalf of others, we have already exceeded the highest ever value in the labour market in Portugal, a value higher than in 2008. The honourable Member says that the government does not combat precariousness. Mrs. Member of the experience of the past, I remember that, during the coalition government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u88	Speak to this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u89	... supported the extension of the term of contract time and not its reduction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember, first of all, the admission of the inevitability of precariousness as a defence of employment! That was your proposal, that was your policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u90	That was the proposal Mr. Minister signed in the Memorandum of Understanding!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u91	As for the weaknesses of PREVPAP that you are talking about, Mrs Deputy, in the central administration, in the business public sector and in the local authorities together, there are 25,000 workers who will be resolved today. For 25 000, it is already decided! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am only giving you one account, Mrs Member: if we had the same rate of conversion of precarious work into long-term work in the private sector, it would be more than 200 000 workers who would be granted a contract without a deadline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] It is indeed difficult to look at this vision of « failure », for this vision of failure, when youth unemployment falls, when the so-called NEET (Not in Education, Employer Training) have a breakdown as they have never had in Portugal, when the number of discouraged inactive people is reduced to tens of thousands, when work decreases in time, involuntary temporary work, when all job quality indicators improve over these years. And the honourable Member calls this "failure". We could easily conclude that success would be the opposite, it would be 11% unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u93	I would like to take this opportunity to answer some specific questions that have been raised to me, particularly with regard to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. What I can tell you is that, in the budget for 2019 of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, a statement is made to initiate the process of converting green receipts into contracts with the Santa Casa and negotiation with the unions is already marked for this work to be completed. I don't know if you guys are. Members had this information, but there was a curious coincidence and, fortunately, we will be able, indeed, to see this situation resolved. With regard to the Working Conditions Authority, an issue that has also been raised, what I can tell you is that, for the first time, the opening of new competitions for the integration of labour inspectors has been approved, unless it has been a mistake since 2007 for more than 10 years. It is a complex and demanding process to comply with the law and we are in the last phase, but this does not prevent the ACT activity from having evolved from inspection actions in 2016, which covered 287 000 workers, to the value of 2018, which resulted in 540 000 workers covered by ACT inspection actions. We are not stopped, this work will continue and will be deepened! It is true, Mrs Isabel Pires, that we have a law in this House to vote. The gentlemen. Members give several examples, but why do they not say that what the Assembly of the Republic will decide is whether the maximum time for the term contract is three years to two, or not, or whether the indefinite work passes from six years to four years, or whether it will be prohibited to use the justification 'to be young in search of the first job or unemployed' to prevent the contract from being concluded? It is these and many other concrete proposals that the Assembly of the Republic will have to decide whether or not it wants to approve. It will have to decide whether or not to use concrete measures to reduce precariousness or only remain in the propaganda of combating precariousness. [[P. Wanda Guimarães.]] I'm sure you don't. Madam Member, as to who will approve this law - which I hope will be approved - I do not know, I cannot answer which parliamentary groups will vote for. But, Madam Member, on agreements between parliamentary groups to pass laws, we have already seen everything in this House! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have no moral authority to criticize such alliances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u94	You're talking about the Left Block, is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u95	Mr. António Carlos Monteiro... [[Continued PSD protests.]] Mr. President, there's a little...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let Mr Minister finish the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u97	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to answer the questions that you have raised with regard to precariousness. As for precariousness in the State, I know that it is difficult to recognize, but what is happening is that thousands of workers have already been integrated or whose integration into the State has already been approved. This integration is the opposite of disintegration, it is the opposite of prolongation of contracts over time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u98	Mr. Minister, don't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u99	... is the opposite of the promotion of precariousness that was previously developed in our country. Mr President, to say that today's legislation, which stimulates job creation, is the same thing that existed a few years ago, for example, to forget that half of the money from the active employment policies of the Government that you have supported has been to support contracts for the right term.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u100	Grant the bosses to hire!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u101	Do you know what the money is now for supporting contracts for the right term? Zero! Because all active employment policy is to support lasting contracts and not precariousness. The promotion was voted on here, the extension of the term of contracts and the financial stimulus was given for companies to enter into an end. Were hundreds of millions of euros used to encourage precariousness by the PSD/CDS government and now come to say that this government does not combat precariousness? Oh, my God! Mr President, the PSD and the CDS have nothing to say about the fight against precariousness, because, as you somehow said, "the best thing is to have a job; whether it is precarious or not, you can see it, but the best thing is to have a job". Yes, the best thing is that there is a job, but with less precariousness and more quality, and that's what's happening. Mrs Rita Rato, the government is committed to combating precariousness. Do you not agree that the reduction in the time limit of contracts is a powerful measure to combat precariousness? Do you not agree to withdraw the possibility of term contracts only because you are young or unemployed? Is that right to have a contract over? Or does it not agree with the reduction of conditions for temporary work or undetermined contracts? That is why, among many other things, it is under discussion and that is what the Assembly of the Republic is going to vote on. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Finally, because the time available to me is running out, Mr José Luís Ferreira, these are the measures that are in the proposed law, this is the set of measures, in its overwhelming majority oriented towards combating precariousness. The honourable Member asks me: "What about the experimental period? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, the experimental period that is planned exists only for some workers and exists in a very significant set of European countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u102	What about the minimum wage in these countries? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u103	This is what is envisaged in the European Directive. Furthermore, Mr President: the proposal presented in this House was evaluated in a recent study by ILO, the International Labour Organization, on labour relations in Portugal, and was considered a good proposal. The International Labour Organization, in this study, considered that this was the right way: significantly reducing work to completion, countering trends for precariousness, but also granting the possibility of a true experimental period to promote lasting contracts and not precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u104	I ask the services to apply what was recently defined in terms of time. Let's move on to the second round. You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lamas, to request further clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, we continue the discussion of precariousness at the request of the Left Block. In March 2016 it was the CFP that required this same debate and at that time the Minister of Labour took priority in combating precariousness. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, this fight should have been seen as a priority, but it was only in speech. It's just, since it's almost the four years of the Legislature, what do we see? What do the numbers tell us? We see that Portugal has the highest rates of precariousness in the European Union! What about the numbers? The numbers revealed yesterday by the INE say that employment slows down and the unemployment rate rises. I'm asking, then, ladies and gentlemen. Left-wing Members, what was the strategy of this government, in fact, of this government, that VV. Ex. They supported it. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u106	It is just a matter of saying that the Socialists should be more concerned about solving the country's precarious problems, because, Mr President, we are not going to be able to do so. Members of the Left Block and the CFP, the left voted in favour of all four State budgets of this Government and therefore are also relevant to the policies of this Government. Don't try to deceive the Portuguese now and say they're not responsible! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Question: What was the strategy? Answer: none! In fact, we have already said that in this 2016 debate. And we were right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one aspect that we must not forget: employment is only improved if there is a job. And we must also not forget that it is the companies that create jobs. And what do we see? We see the tax burden reaching the highest level of recent history in 2018, we see productivity falling, for the fifth year, and limiting the rise of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u107	You wanted to increase the TSU (unique social rate) for the workers and had to retreat!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, your government has promised to fight the precariousness—it was the flag of the Prime Minister—and in 2018 there were more 73,000 precariouss than in the year of the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u110	It is almost 900 000 precarious in the private sector! One in five workers is precarious! Is this your strategy? Is this your consistency, Mr Rui Riso: increase the number of precariouss?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u111	You have reached the limit of the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u112	I'm done now, Mr. President. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the portrait of your government's inability, which has not been able to take advantage of the favorable environment, economic and financial recovery, to act, to present solutions and to define paths. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u113	Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request further clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a simple conclusion: this government lacks only one thing, which is a capable opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is in the framework of the purest delirium that the miraculous thesis that a supposed reform of the labour legislation of the former Government would be at the root of the current development of Portugal. Question: how can it be possible that the right, which was responsible for having razed this country, might think that it has contributed to its development? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I assume that the right refers to the courting of holidays, the courting of rights, wages and pensions, bankruptcy, what they talked about, companies, the bankruptcy of 30 companies per day,... [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u115	I'm asking the ladies. Members who guarantee the minimum calm necessary for the honourable Member to be able to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u116	At the end of almost four years, Mr President is still a believer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u117	Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u118	...to the unemployment of almost 18 %, to the return of the IRS rate—to date, in fact, to the blockade of collective bargaining, to the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, which no one has noticed to serve. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Listen to me. I know it's boring, excuse the expression, but that's it! All of this adds up to eight amending budgets and no international commitment, unlike this government, which presents the lowest deficit in democracy and a marked decline in debt. In fact, it must also mean... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, that is indeed very complicated. Thank you...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u119	The honourable Member is about to finish her time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u120	In addition, the levels of poverty and deprivation which reached 12 % in 2014 should also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u121	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. The conclusion is clear: if we want a fair country, if we want a decent job, if we want to increase wages and pensions, if we want the genuine appreciation of the expression of workers and companies, in short, if we want Portugal developed, we can only do one thing: to keep away from the right of power forever! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u123	You now have the floor for an additional request for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u124	Mr President, Minister, if the agenda of this debate has served the Government to announce something that has never been announced or told to these workers of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa — who have been on false green receipts for years — that is that a process of recognition of their employment contracts will start, then it will already be worth scheduling the Left Block. We will be here to see how this process will be implemented. We also want answers about the love of social security and the love of the Holy House and we also want to know what the government thinks about the problems we have put here about temporary work, the fight against outsourcing, and other issues that are under discussion. For example, why should lawyers continue to be poorly framed, because of the green receipt, and should not have a framework that recognizes their rights and the employment contract. The Minister said that if PREVPAP were applied to the private sector, more than 200 000 workers would be involved. So PREVPAP must apply to these 200 000 workers! The Working Conditions Authority must act and be able to ensure respect for workers' rights and labour law. And, too, of course, the law needs to be changed. The Minister has spoken here about the debate we will have in our specialty. The problem that is being debated in this Parliament is not that of the measures which the Left Block and the Government have agreed on in the working group that they have made to combat future contracts, the problem is that of the measures that the Government has been negotiating with the employers as a counter-precautionary measure, in relation to the commitment that had been made to the left. And the vote of the Bloc will never be lacking in the fight against precariousness, in measures to combat precariousness, in the limitation of contracts to term or temporary work or in other measures we propose, in the specialty, and for which we are very curious to know whether or not the Socialist Party will be able to follow. Now, don't count on us, don't count on the vote of the Block to generalize short-term contracts, oral contracts, without social protection, in all sectors or to extend the experimental period, making there are employers who can run young people looking for the first job to fill the same job. For this reason, Mr Minister, for these precautional dynamics, for these new forms of precaution, which are offered to the bosses, in relation to other measures which have been negotiated on the left, for this, of course, does not count on the vote of the Left Block. The debate we have to do is also about this: on the forms of precariousness that are recognised and on the new forms of precariousness, not those that are provided for in the law, but those that happen in practice. Finally, I leave a challenge to you about a contract that brought you as an example of professional activity as a liberal professional, one of those young people who cycle to deliver meals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u125	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u126	I believe, Mr Minister, that we also have an obligation to think about these new forms of precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u127	You have the floor, also for an additional request for clarification, by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u128	Mr President, Minister, I would like to tell you, with all honesty, that, however I speak, you cannot explain why PS, Bloc and CFP said that this labour legislation was going to increase unemployment and the Minister now says that it is increasing employment, and increasing employment with quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u129	Because it's not this legislation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u130	The legislation that is currently in force is the law of PSD and CDS! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] And Mr Minister did not say either, but it is good for the PS to explain here in the House whether or not it will fully respect the social agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u131	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u132	But Mr Minister, however much he speaks, he cannot explain why, when we are talking about precariousness, when we are talking about employment, when we are talking about many young unemployment cases, with this government, those who worked all their lives cannot be reformed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u133	That's not an intervention, it's a Russian salad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u134	It is the Ombudsman who draws attention to the CDS which has insisted over these years that the Minister provide information on this matter and the Minister has always refused to do so! You have written questions, you have oral questions: how long do you have to wait for those who want to retire, so that they can take up their reform and have the right rest? Also in the field of vocational training, why does the government have very low rates of implementation in vocational training? It is that the lack of qualification of workers is detrimental to their employability.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u135	Unemployment is 6 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u136	And, as we know who creates jobs are companies, we are still going to the question of PREVPAP : how many workers were regularized on 31 December 2018? How many, Minister? That's just how long you've been committed to!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u137	With the vote against the CDS-PP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u138	They have promised everything to everyone and at the moment they have more precarious than they were in the time of the previous government. This is the truth about numbers! I said! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u139	You now have the floor for an additional request for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u140	Mr President, Minister, in the debate on precariousness on 26 April, the CFP spoke on matters of higher education and science, particularly on state laboratories. It was informed by the Government that at the beginning of May there would be news, particularly regarding the situations of the LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ), the INIAV and the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), among others. The truth is, we're on May 9, and there's no news yet. There are also other problems at the level of higher education institutions, such as ata that are not yet ready: at the ISCTE ( Higher Institute of Labour and Business Sciences), in the Technique, in the FCSH ( Faculty of Social and Human Sciences ), at the University of Coimbra and at the University of Minho. Regarding the situation of state laboratories, we recall the following: in the LNEC there are 111 workers with a favourable opinion pending approval ; in the INIAV there are 14 researchers waiting for the opening of the competitions ; in the IPMA there are 126 favourable opinions and we still do not know the outcome of the situation. Mr Minister, with regard to these situations, we must say the following: the fight against precariousness must respond to specific cases and to people of flesh and bone. I refer, for example, to the case of the higher education teacher in the Fine Arts, who has been working full-time since 2009 but receives only 50 % of the salary. They don't want to integrate it! I refer, for example, to the case of a technical purser in a state laboratory, who has been working there since 2006 and will lose the scholarship on May 18th; awaits approval, because he does not have it and does not know what he is going to do. This, with the aggravatingness of being a worker who has a higher degree of qualification, but what they got him, to keep his job, was a scholarship that is not even licensed. It earns 570 euros a month, which is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u141	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u142	I would also like to ask what is the answer the Government has to give to the blatant case of a stock market worker, also in a state laboratory, which is 61 years old! He's got a bag! What are you going to say? What's in training? What is in training, a couple of years from being able to retire? Oh, my God! This is the concrete question that we must also leave here, because these people must be given answers. A worker who fills a permanent need for an institution and continues to be unintegrated, half a dozen years of reform, constitutes a clearly shameful situation! Another example, Mr Minister, and I conclude, is that of a university where a scholarship substitutes a computer worker — a permanent need of the institution — who was picturing, meeting time, had a fixed place of work, but, it should be said, regularisation has been rejected. We must give serious answers to this scourge of precariousness, we must combat this situation, we must even change this! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u143	You have the floor by the Greens Ecological Party, also for an additional request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u144	Mr President, Minister, it cannot respond to the extension of the experimental period with the limitation of the long-term contracts for young people and for the long-term unemployed, which is indeed a measure that we value, because that would be assuming that the government's fight against precariousness is to open one door and close another, it is to take one step forward and take another step back. The Minister then spoke of the European directive, but he also forgot to say that the Constitutional Court has already spoken on this subject in terms of the extension of the experimental period. In any case, the Government cannot say that it wants to combat precariousness and at the same time intends to extend the experimental period. And why? Because, by extending the experimental period, it is encouraging precariousness and not fighting it! This seems absolutely elementary to me, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u146	The same is true of the government's claim to introduce the so-called 'rotativity rate'. Mr Minister, then, if the government wants to combat precariousness, how does it explain the introduction of this rate which, in good rigour, is what it does to legalise precariousness? Oh, my God! Does the government want to combat precariousness or to legalise precariousness? Oh, my God! This is the question that arises, because this is at stake with this proposal from the Government, Minister. The government assesses the average level of precariousness in a sector and applies a rate to companies that are above their average. In other words, the Government, instead of seeking to assess whether or not the job corresponds to permanent functions, rather than whether the precarious link is illegal, whether it is outside the law or not, will assess whether the average precariousness is below or above the average of its sector. However, this has nothing to do with the fight against precariousness. On the contrary, it represents a way of legalizing precariousness. In fact, it is not by chance that these government proposals only have the reception of the parties that most precariously have sown in our country, the PSD and the CDS, which are, as we know, the champions of precariousness. Mr Minister, does it seem reasonable to you that there are levels of precariousness in a given sector of 40 % or even 50 % jobs, just because they are below the average of this sector? Is that how the government wants to combat precariousness? Mr Minister, this does not seem to be the way forward, but with the partners who are next to the Government in the field of work, it was not to be expected much longer. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u147	You have the floor to reply, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u148	Mr President, Mrs Susana Lamas, the honourable Member, with little imagination—it is true! — you have managed to reverse mathematics: employment is increasing 350 000 in net terms, and the honourable Member says that employment is slowing down! [[And slow down!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u149	Unemployment fell from 12 % to 6, 7%, and the honourable Member said it was a failure. I understand that the debate on precariousness is a difficult debate for these benches. [[PSD and CDS protests.]] It is a difficult debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u150	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u151	...because if you're the gentlemen. Members should do a research on the word 'precautionary' in your electoral programme. Do you know what the outcome is? Do the experiment, do the experiment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u152	By the way, it's an interesting experience!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u153	Attention to precariousness was null, as it has always been! That is why, when we discuss precariousness here, you always try to divert the conversation and devalue what has been achieved: 25 000 workers, already today, before the completion of the process, have the guarantee of entering, with a lasting contract, into the central state or local authorities. And this is an extremely significant value!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u154	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u155	That sounds like the Prime Minister's statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u156	The government has this reality to say quietly that we have fulfilled what has been promised. Our commitments will be fulfilled and all those who meet the rules of the law which has been approved here will have a place in the frameworks of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u157	Your partners believe that no, that you are not doing it! [[No more PCP and BE believe!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u158	I would like to remind the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there is sometimes a distinction that is not present in our debate, which is the existence of contracts for the right term, for various reasons which the law provides, and the abuse of this situation, to which we should rightly call precariousness. The truth must be said: not all contracts in the right term correspond to precarious situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u159	But it's most of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u160	Many of them have to do with legal figures, both in the public sector and in the private sector, which correspond to the needs of the country and which are often an open door to employment and not to precariousness. Another thing is abuse, irregular use, misuse, fraudulent use of these figures. And it is the fight against this use that must also, of course, be done to create a legal framework that is conducive to stable working relations. Mr José Moura Soeiro pointed out here a number of points on temporary work, on renewals, on the fight against false green receipts, some of which, in my modest opinion, find an answer — Mr President. Members will decide — in the legislation we have already passed and in the bill that has already entered this House. The honourable Member is talking about new problems, and I follow him completely. As we have already dealt with some forms of working relations under the so-called 'collaborative economy', there are others who still do not have the right answer and to which we should be very careful, because the temptation for precariousness and illegal flexibility is very great. And we know that in other European countries there are even forms of precarious work that embarrass anyone, such as the zero-hour contracts (zero-hour contracts), which, fortunately, have not yet arrived in Portugal, and that, on our part, will not arrive, despite some attempts that have been made, and very well. And it is true that there are so-called 'typical forms of employment', which need to be addressed with new tools and new instruments, which have not yet been fully discussed and implemented. The expression chosen by the World Commission Report on the Future of Work, the ILO, that there can be no work without social protection, is a crucial expression for us to achieve, in particular, this ambition to combat the new forms of employment that are clearly illegitimate. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, diabolising alternatives to legal employment relations, that, no, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! The short-term work, the short-term contract is not a contract without registration, it obliges, on the same day, to a social security registration, not a contract without protection, because there are contributions to social security. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] What we don't want, sirs. Members — and I hope they will follow me — is that these short-term needs (are not permanent needs) are satisfied by illegal work, informal work, but rather by formulas that are planned and defended by law. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, who finished his speech in a way that we all agree, that part in which he said! » — it was a brilliant part of your intervention! ... — on precariousness said nothing, on the fight against precariousness said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u161	Who's here to answer is Mr. Minister, and he doesn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u162	It is that the CDS has nothing to say, because it was in the PSD government / CDS, with the Minister of CDS, that precariousness was most facilitated in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] I know that you have a lot of difficulty in accepting — and I will not try to convince you that — tax revenue is not the same as tax burden. See the social security results: there has not been a single social rate and contributions are growing 8, 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u163	And...? Oh, my God! Answer the questions I asked you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u164	I do not want to try to explain the mathematics of the thing, but at least Mr, at least I want to tell you that in Portugal there is no more precarious work than there was.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u165	So you're so distracted! You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u166	on the contrary, as I said, he retreated, because the work with lasting contracts grew much more than the work at the right time. So today, in the labour market, we have a less negative structure...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u167	With our labor legislation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u168	No, Mr. Deputies, it is not with your legislation, because your legislation supported the contracts over, it paid the contracts over! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The current legislation combats contracts with term. Your labour legislation, as you understand it, unlawfully approved the extinction of extension doors...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u170	...and tried to destroy collective bargaining, that is, everything contrary to what's happening today. No, it is not with its labour law, it is with the political and economic options of this government that employment is growing, unemployment is decreasing and labour relations are improving. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u171	Your statements have nothing to do with reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u172	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u173	More jobs, better jobs and more wages. It costs you, sir! More jobs, better jobs and more wages! I said, sir! I said! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u174	To close the debate by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate has shown, if further evidence is accurate, that this is a fair, important, necessary and urgent issue. It is a fair debate, because Portugal is still a very unequal country and precariousness is one of the most rooted and transversal forms of inequality. It is an important debate, because the consequences of precarious employment are not exhausted in the labour market, on the contrary, precariousness has repercussions that go far beyond it. Precautionaryness undermines people's lives, their careers, their social protection, their well-being, not only immediately but also in the long term. It compromises the life projects of workers and their families and, in particular, of so many young and young families. And that is why we also aggravate our demographic prospects, whether by conditioning birth, whether by pushing people out of the country, as happened massively during the crisis and right-wing governance. It also compromises the smooth functioning of companies, discourages investment in training, devalues and depletes the potential of our human capital and compromises the productivity of the economy. This is therefore a debate that is necessary because, despite the widespread improvement in employment over the past three years, and despite the fact that we have been able to reduce levels of non-permanent recruitment, Portugal continues to have excessive levels of precariousness and, in particular, excessive levels of end-term recruitment. That is why this is an urgent debate and has been able to bring together broad-based consensus in Portuguese society. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this — for the sake of justice, for the importance, for the necessity and urgency — this is, above all, a debate that has to have a practical translation. And that must have a translation into concrete and consequent measures, measures to improve the balance of our labour market, measures that effectively strengthen the never-ending hiring and the conditions of dignity and social protection of workers and Portuguese workers. This was the spirit and objective of the bill that the Government presented to this House last year with dozens of concrete measures to reduce the margin of precariousness in Portugal. It is a bill that reduces the maximum term of term contracts to a minimum of two years, which limits the term of contract, thereby eliminating the rule that allows young people or long-term unemployed to be hired, without any other justification, but ensuring that we do not prejudice the entry of young people into the labour market. It is a bill that strengthens, through different instruments, incentives for permanent recruitment and which, from the outset, creates a tax on companies which, in each sector, show too much turnover as a result of precariousness. It is a bill that also introduces, and for the first time, limits to the number of renewals of temporary work, which guarantees temporary workers access to the rights of collective bargaining from the first day of their placement and which increases the liability of companies vis-à-vis workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some examples, but others could mention here. They are concrete measures that help not only to combat precariousness and reduce segmentation but also, above all, to improve the quality of employment at all levels: more stability, more security, better horizons of qualification and professional progression, better remuneration. They are concrete measures that represent for all those who are concerned about this delicate, just, so important and so pressing issue, but above all, for all workers, all families, all the young people who live in precarious situations, unequivocal progress in a fight that must mobilize us all, unequivocal progress on the quality of employment, unequivocal progress to reduce inequalities and segmentation, unequivocal progress to address, in an integrated and consistent manner, one of the most important structural challenges of our labour market and of our society. That is why the Government hopes that today's debate has been another contribution to the wider debate that has taken place in Portuguese society and that it is now, in the last stages, in the Assembly of the Republic having a solid, practical and consequent translation. It is that we cannot deny the problem or proclaim the fight against precariousness and demeanor or reject measures that effectively combat it. Let us not deviate from what is essential! We do not deviate from the essentials, because precariousness has to have an answer. The question deserves and demands this answer, and Portuguese workers also deserve it and demand it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u176	To close the debate, you have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : We have appointed this debate to give voice to the precarious and precarious workers, to the most invisible workers and workers, such as the family assistants to the green receipt of the Holy House, the workers with temporary work, who work with false outsourcings in the country's call centres, the workers of the Glovo or Uber Eats, who do not have a reasonable framework, or also, for example, the cleaning workers with whom we live every day in this Parliament, who are struggling for their collective contract, to stop receiving the miserable amount of 1, 8 € of meal allowance, among other things. There were many issues that were addressed in this debate and many questions were asked, some of which were left unanswered. But if, following this debate, a process is opened for the 600 workers of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia, family assistants who provide home support, to have a contract, then an act of elementary justice will come out of this debate for these workers. We have also done this debate, secondly, to denounce the illegality and impunity with which work relations are crossed by transgression of the law. As an employer, the state has to set an example, and this implies achieving what needs to be achieved from the process of regularization of precariouss. There are workers from IPMA, INIAV and LNEC waiting for the Ministry of Finance to unlock the money to be integrated. There are RTP workers and social security lovers waiting to know how their process will be completed. But it is also up to the State to take the fight against precariousness as a national priority, and this is done by giving signs and mobilizing means. We know that it has been discussed, approved and launched a competition to recruit 122 new inspectors for the Labour Conditions Authority. It was important to know when these inspectors will finally be working; when they will also be integrated; and when the Labour Conditions Authority will have the means to combat the illegality that is the rule of so many companies in Portugal. We need more supervision and not to close our eyes to what we have every day: the violation of the most basic rights of those who work. And we have the legislative debate going on. We need to know where this legislative debate is being held. Portugal has more employment today, but we continue to be a country of precariousness: among young people, two thirds have no permanent contract; almost half of the new contracts are in time; there are 70,000 temporary workers in Portugal, and a few hundred thousand workers without a contract. The national minimum wage has increased, and I beat us so, but the average wages have not yet recovered the pre-crisis values. Workers covered by collective bargaining have increased — now around 900 000, but we are far from 1 895 000 workers covered by collective agreements in 2008. We work in Portugal for hours that are not paid and therefore we need to change the law. Not to add to the rules which are currently in the law other precautionary rules, not to add to them the extension of the experimental period or the generalisation of very short-term contracts, as the employers demanded and the government accepted. Don't! We need to change the law to combat precariousness, to recover wages, to value work. And the challenges that the Block poses in this review of labour law, the challenges that are put to a revision to the left of the labour law, are four. First, it is necessary to remove from the Government's proposal the precautionary measures agreed with the employers, i.e. the extension of the experimental period, the generalisation of contracts of very short duration or the bank of hours outside the collective bargaining. This, in order to focus on what is important, which is to combat and limit contracts in time, temporary work, false outsourcing, give workers outsourcing the same right as the other employees of the companies in which they work. Secondly, the inheritance of the troika that continues in the Labour Code must be removed from the law. Three days of holiday that must be returned to the workers were taken away by the troika and the right; compensation for dismissal or additional work compensation was cut and this value must be returned to the workers. Thirdly, it is important to promote collective bargaining, preventing the unilateral expiry of collective agreements and preventing them from having worse rights than those already enshrined in general law. And finally, but not least, we must respond to the new challenges that arise. The Block has, in its specialty, proposals to enshrine the duty of disconnection and to limit the colonization of personal and family life by work, through new communication technologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u178	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u179	We need to regulate the forms of performance of work, such as those brought here. That, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the responsibility of the left. The Block will not lack that responsibility. What we need to know is whether the other parties, particularly the Socialist Party, want to be part of this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u180	We have thus reached the end of the urgent debate required by BE on the subject of combating precariousness. We shall now turn to the general appraisal of the Bill No 188 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the law of military infrastructure. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of National Defence João Gomes Cravinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the permission of Mr President, we will divide our intervention into two parts, being the first in charge of me and the second in charge of Mr. Secretary of State for National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u182	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u183	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a military infrastructure law, which we are presenting today, is a proposal for an investment programming law to meet the needs of the armed forces'infrastructures. This bill brings together two primary functions. The first of these is the profitability of the state's estate affected by national defence, that heritage, which is no longer necessary for the pursuit of the collective defence needs. The second primary function is the application of the product of this profitability in the conservation, maintenance, security, modernization, among other modalities, of the heritage in use by the Staff of the Armed Forces and the various branches. The proposed military infrastructure law brings together a set of rules that provide for the possible types of profitability of buildings enshrined in private law and the legal regime of public real estate. It also includes the planning of the application of the product of this profitability in measures and projects of the fixed component of the Ministry of National Defence, the General Staff of the Armed Forces and the branches, for which it is necessary to finance not charge the State budget, that is, where all the financing of the expenditure is therefore ensured by own revenue. in this review we wanted to simplify, expedite and expand the possible procedures for the profitability of the real estate affected by national defence. There was an improvement in the Military Infrastructure Act ( LIM), considering the lessons learned over a decade of its existence. This bill complies with the provisions of the Government's Programme on the reorganization of the territorial system, on the basis of the missions of the Armed Forces, as well as on the consolidation of mechanisms for sharing between the branches, with a view to the joint use of common heritage which is attached to the Armed Forces' Major-General State, highlighting as an example the Armed Forces Hospital. Finally, I should like to note the effort made here to ensure, in parallel, the synchronisation of the two structural laws of the armed forces re-equipment, the Military Programming Act, recently approved in the Assembly of the Republic, and the law of military investment, both effective until 2030, in line with the military planning cycles and with the reasoning of coherence, interoperability and integration in the use of the means and infrastructures that are now underlying the logic of the optimization of our material resources. Mr President, with your permission, I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a military infrastructure law presents two amendments to the current version which we would like to highlight. First of all, the consecration in the law itself of the exemption from the appropriations entered there, like the one already enshrined in the Military Programming Act. Secondly, an innovative amendment consists of the non-requirement of the decommissioning of the military public domain of property affected by national defence, in use by the Major-General State of the Armed Forces and by branches, in order to enable their profitability. This bill promotes a new methodology for the implementation of LIM, since it is understood that the strategy for cost-effectiveness and investment planning needs to be clear. Thus, it is intended to meet, in detail for each infrastructure, the investment forecast required from 2019 to 2030 and to develop a multi-annual programme of action for the return on the assets made available in a proactive operation. The importance of LIM is not exhausted from the very important role it plays in the maintenance of national defence infrastructures. It also assumes an important social function, since the provision of the heritage attached to national defence often passes through its surrender for public use. Examples of this are the multiple partnerships that have been developed with the authorities, which have constituted the main partner of the Ministry of National Defence in this area. As an example, we recall the assignment of the Forte de São João Batista, in Esponende, the Forte de Santa Catarina, in Figueira da Foz, the Forte de Santo António, in Cascais, more recently of the monastery of Odivelas, and also the assignment with the option of selling buildings, for example, to the City Hall of Lisbon, in particular for the creation of the Creative Hub of the Blessed. The contribution of several buildings of national defence to the Revive Program, including the Convent of St.António dos Capuchos, in Leiria, the Quarter of Grace, in Lisbon, and the Royal Paço de Caxias, in Oeiras, is also highlighted. The planned investment for the period 2019 to 2030 totals EUR 262 million, beginning in 2019 with EUR 20 million and increasing in subsequent years between 2020 and 2030 to EUR 22 million. These values are in line with the law currently in force and with the budgets approved in recent years. There is a slight increase in investment of EUR 2 million from 2020, which will support an effort of profitability, i.e. revenue-making, as has been developed. In the coming years, the objective is to overcome the most serious situations of degradation of buildings affected by the activities of the Armed Forces, which have been greatly aggravated in the years of crisis. The investment for the period 2019 - 2030 is distributed by measures corresponding to each of the entities of the Ministry of National Defence, taking into account their state of seniority and critical performance. The most significant value is that of the Army, following, in descending order, the Navy, the Air Force, the General Staff of the Armed Forces and the central services of the Ministry of National Defence. The investment as a whole highlights projects linked to the security and surveillance of military units, amounting to EUR 42 million for 2019 - 2030, remodelling the accommodation of military units, important for the attractiveness of the Armed Forces and contributing to the improvement of recruitment, and the expansion, remodeling and expansion of the facilities of the Armed Forces Hospital. This is therefore a proposal for a structural law for national defence and for the fulfilment of its tasks. It is a proposal that adapts the management of the State's heritage to national defence to the identified needs and presents sustainable solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u185	The Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification to the Government and I would like to know how they want to respond, whether individually or together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u186	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u187	So, to ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the new bill presented by the Government here on the military infrastructures of the Armed Forces for the next decade continues to be based on wrong premises, like the previous laws. They are very high expected values, almost 300 million euros, considering the criteria and objectives, in which the military infrastructures are intended to be adapted partly to expeditionary forces to operate on missions outside the service of NATO and other organisations. They are very high values, when the government fails to invest, when it has left SNS and other public services at risk, when the railway is in a pity! Of course, it is necessary to modernise and adapt the infrastructures and the real estate park of the Armed Forces to the profound transformations that they have been suffering in recent years. These infrastructures need to be taken care of more appropriately, as they are public heritage. Mr Minister, you need to know how heritage is alienated and how money will be spent from there. For example, what is the estate to be alienated and what criteria are used? Part of the historic heritage built by the Armed Forces will be put on sale free-wheeled. Will there be public scrutiny of what is chosen to be sold? Oh, my God! Apparently not. On the other hand, other measures envisaged for the profitability of buildings affected by expenditure go through private uses of the public domain, partnerships with private promoters and the allocation of real estate through the creation of real estate investment funds. Mr Minister, will the Ministry of Defence now become a zealous agent at the service of real estate speculation, in good manner the times of the PSD/CDS government, at the orders of the foreign troika? Oh, my God! Private use of the public domain, what does this mean, Minister? Oh, my God! Will the Ministry of Defence now multiply PPPs (public-private partnerships) with real estate agents? Oh, my God! It is not a good idea, considering the sad experiences of PPPs in health, road routes and other sectors. Private profits will be guaranteed, at the expense of military public heritage. Mr Minister, another situation which is not fully explained is the allocation of private uses of the airspace and the basement corresponding to the property of the military public domain. Is this conceivable? Oh, my God! On the other hand, it is unclear in the bill who will evaluate and monitor the management of the valuable heritage, the prices practised and the contractual conditions. The cost-effectiveness of the Defence Real estate will be decided by the government members of the defence and finance areas will not be the most appropriate in our view. Finally, Minister, do you not think that the Assembly of the Republic should have a more decisive role in this area, on behalf of greater visibility, in greater transparency, and not just to receive simple reports? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u189	The following request for clarification is from Mr. João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u190	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very quick in the questions, because I have a fundamental intervention to make about the law and some problems will be mentioned there. What is written in the framework of the law and then its execution is always a problem, as indeed happens in any law. Then the relationship that the Ministry of Defence has with the Ministry of Finance, regardless of government, is also a problem. In other words, we have a law that must be followed and executed by the Ministry of National Defence, but on the other hand, in finance there is a set of mechanisms that are limiting the enforcement of the law, creating problems, not being able to execute what the law really provides. We know that the Ministry of Finance often does not send the values of revenue in time to execute them and then there is the big question of withholding balances. Finally, we know that the Ministry of Finance does not open the hand of the evaluation, and it takes a long time to make these evaluations that allow for the enforcement of the law. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to know whether, in this new law which is proposed here, with its amendments, there are new mechanisms to minimize these problems in the relationship that we then have with the Ministry of Finance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u191	You now have the floor, for one last request for clarification, Mr Rui Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u192	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, in the genesis of Portuguese idiosyncrasy, the claim, the defense of our territory, the affirmation of our knowledge, of our knowledge, the courageous and fearful adventure, the consolidation of our principles and values, were always the principles and pillars of the Lusitanian soul. This was the case with Viriato, as regards the subjugation of the Roman Empire, with Afonso Henriques, in opposition to the Kingdoms of Galicia and León, with Nuno Álvares Pereira, in the Battle of Aljubarrota,... [[PS laughter.]] ... with Afonso de Albuquerque, in the consolidation of the expansion of the Indian Ocean, with the military heroes in the Battle of La Lys and so is the pride we have in the national and international missions of our Armed Forces, as well as attests the performance of our military in the difficult scenario of the Central African Republic. We are not a belligerent people but never refuse to defend principles and values such as democracy, freedom, solidarity and justice,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u193	...sometimes with the resistance of a people with 900 years of history. in this sense, the Armed Forces and military infrastructure were always decisive in the implementation of our historical legacy. We have recently passed the Military Programming Act (MPL) and we are now evaluating the Military Infrastructure Act. This Military Infrastructure Act results from the ordinary revision of the 2015 LIM and, above all, from a new reality that requires a smaller number of infrastructures, from the high state of degradation that some reveal and from the obvious inadequacy of current military facilities to serve modern Armed Forces, with the support of new technologies, which guarantee the attractiveness and effectiveness of military service. This new LIM maintains several previous measures and introduces new ones in order to speed up the profitability of buildings by aligning, leasing, permuting and protocols. It is in this context that we have some doubts, Minister. In the 2015 LIM, there were already some of these measures which could not be implemented later. How will the Minister resolve the delays of the Ministry of Finance in transferring the balances of sales made? How will the Minister resist the Ceneno Minister's captivating strategy and ensure that the money is used in the spirit of the law, with which we agree, since it was the Government of the PSD and the CDS that implemented it in the 2015 LIM? We know that there have been many protocols, particularly with authorities — and very well, Minister! — for the transfer of military facilities, but we are also aware of some discontent with the fact that processes are rapidly moving forward and others remain in the calendars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u194	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u195	Why does this LIM not provide for transparency mechanisms that promote equality and equity? The LIM under consideration includes the implementation of a multi-annual programme for the profitability of the defence heritage which is dependent on external conditions, including supply and demand from the real estate sector. What were the criteria and evaluations for drawing up this list, or is it just an expected perspective? In conclusion, Mr. Minister, military equipment and military infrastructure are moving hand in hand. What we can verify is that there is no relationship between LPM and LIM. Mr Minister, in a lighter tone, why were these two laws notary to realize a natural relationship? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u196	In reply, on behalf of the Government, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u197	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I believe that the improvement of the conditions and infrastructure of the Armed Forces Hospital, the accommodation of the military and the infrastructure in which they carry out their mission every day is much more than support for the expeditionary force, is to create conditions so that these military can perform, with the highest quality, those that are their duties. Let me explain to you what the private use of the military public domain means. It is, for example, agricultural exploitation or livestock exploitation within the military infrastructure and which today cannot be done in the same forms in which they were made 20 years ago or 30 years ago, but which require maintenance and have this capacity for profitability. In other words, military units continue to operate regularly, but through these facilities, for example, the barracks bars can now have a profitability capacity that helps to maintain these same infrastructures. Mr Rebel and Mr Rui Silva, with regard to the seizures and transitions of balances, we have had a very close relationship with the Ministry of Finance on this matter. There was, in 2016, 2017 and 2018, seizures in the Military Infrastructure Act and now, from this moment on, when we enshrine it in the law, what we hope is that the same thing will continue to happen. We are making this effort and we are doing it. With regard to the transition of balances, the Decree-Law on Budget Implementation, the DLEO 2018, has resolved this situation, and remains in force, and we want this to continue to be the practice. Why? Because that is what allows the works and the contractual processes to be initiated. We are learning a lesson from a law that has been running for 10 years and these lessons learned are what enables us to improve this law and speed up the processes. And the relationship with the authorities also results from this learning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u198	We move on to the stage of the interventions, the first of which is the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr Joaquim Foxo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u199	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: At this point in the debate we discussed the Government's proposal for a law approving the Military Infrastructure Act. This law repeals the current Law of 2015, accompanying a cycle of military planning, more specifically the revision of the Military Programming Act, approved by great consensus a short time ago in this Parliament. This review establishes the programming of investment in the conservation, maintenance, security, modernization and identification of infrastructures of the fixed component of our national force system and regulates the management of immovable property affected by national defence. The programming and management of buildings affected by national defence has a very specific intrinsic nature, incorporating, in the component of the revenue, the result of the profitability of the buildings affected by national defence and, in the component of the expenditure, the charges that are inherent in the maintenance of the heritage and the infrastructures of the national defence. Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Military Infrastructure Act essentially exists in order to make it profitable and use the heritage of the Armed Forces, to place it at the service not only of the Armed Forces but also, and more and more, of the country and civil society. The last few years have been characterized by a low execution, especially by its bureaucratic dimension. With regard to the previous Law of 2015, the PS Parliamentary Group would first of all like to record the Government's efforts to simplify, expedite and expand possible procedures for the profitability of the property affected by national defence. We are aware that a LIM has an added importance for national defence, especially from a financial point of view, but we cannot ignore that its relevance to the country and to civil society should lead us to look beyond the financial issue. Its relevance is not exhausted, therefore, only in this dimension of the concept. This Law on Military Infrastructure is also associated with an important social dimension, insofar as the provision of national defence-affected heritage often passes through the transfer to authorities or other public entities. An example of this is the availability of the former Military Hospital of Belém to the City Hall of Lisbon, in which it constitutes a continuing care unit, preferably for the reception of the former combatants of the Armed Forces, men and women who gave their life throughout the country. This is therefore a major social impact management tool. This is a dimension which the PS Parliamentary Group can not fail to value or encourage its deepening as a contribution to mitigating other problems, such as the lack of student accommodation in some cities in the country. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group would also like to point out the Government's approach to the implementation of a multi-annual programme that will enable it to act on the profitability of the heritage more rapidly, effectively and structured. There is an important innovation in this law, which we welcome, which attenuates the bureaucratic dimension inherent in this type of diploma, which may also contribute to the improvement of the implementation rates of the plan. We are talking about the estimated investment to be made in the period 2019 to 2030, which amounts to EUR 20 million already in 2019, increasing in the following years to EUR 22 million, making in this period a total of EUR 262 million. No less important is the forecast of the long-term investment reinforcement of around 10 %, in which the investment forecast is highlighted in improving the military installations of the three branches of the Armed Forces. This will benefit not only the efficiency of our Armed Forces but also the recruitment, attractiveness, or, then, the improvement of the effort in the security issues of the facilities and the heritage in general, in a total of 20 %. In conclusion, Mr President, and making a more comprehensive reflection on this type of law, at a time when significant progress has been made in the development of new European defence financing mechanisms, it would not be without sense to consider mechanisms at national level that allow greater, consistent and effective coordination, precisely between the LIM and the LPM itself and the new options arising from our financial instruments for the area of defence at European level. But, Minister, it would also be important to reflect on the creation of a kind of mission unit involving the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the municipal chambers, in order to better assess the sale and profitability of the property envisaged in good time, thus ensuring that the State does not lose a less beneficial logic of the Armed Forces itself. in this logic, no less important would also be the introduction or creation of a mechanism that would ensure the consecration in the law of a prior period of information regarding heritage. You can even think of the possibility to enshrine in the law the exercise of the right of preference by the municipalities in the alienation of this same heritage in their territory, in order to safeguard, for its benefit, its strategic, social, heritage, historical or cultural value. Finally, Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is open and available to dialogue, so that, as in the Military Programming Act, a good law is made for the country and the armed forces, with the consensus, which we believe is possible, of all the parties present here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u200	Mr Joaquim Raposo has no requests for clarification, so we are moving forward to the next intervention, which is up to the CDS-PP. Mr. João Rebelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u201	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Dear colleagues : We are discussing today the Military Infrastructure Act, which, together with the Military Programming Act, is one of the programming laws that allows us to establish a forecast framework for the main expenditure in the area of national defence in terms of large State investments. I cannot begin in any other way than to regret the delay with which we are discussing this law, like what happened with the Military Programming Act. Both laws should have entered into force on January 1st of this year, but no, they will only enter into force almost half a year later, which may cause some embarrassment to the Armed Forces. After making this initial criticism, we now need to look at what is presented to us by the government. As we all know, and it has already been said by Mr Minister, the Law on Military Infrastructure is an investment programming law that aims to respond to the needs of the Armed Forces'infrastructures, bringing together two primary functions: the profitability of the State's national defence heritage and the application of the product of this profitability to its own investment in conservation, maintenance, security, modernization of its own facilities, or new facilities, to be used by the branches of the Armed Forces, by the Major-General State of the Armed Forces and by the Ministry of National Defence. The law itself contains a set of rules for the profitability of these buildings — and indeed, in fact — such as alienation, renting and permuting, and also referring to the form of profitability provided for in the legal system of public real estate. I would like to recall that in 2007 when we discussed the first proposal for the law on military infrastructure, the CDS pointed out a defect in relation to an aspect in which I do not follow Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block. This defect was related to the fact that the 2007 bill submitted by Minister Severiano Teixeira did not provide for the very creation of a fund that managed the entire heritage of the Armed Forces. The mechanism found was 'cox' and, subsequently, the lessons learned from Mr. Secretary of State showed that our criticism was right, because the management of the heritage that happened was not the one that was wanted by everyone, first, by the Government of the Socialist Party, then by the coalition Government and now by the current government. However, as much or more important as this, to realize the scope of this law, is the framework that appears in annex, with the forecasts of expenditure, as it is also important, in terms of transparency, we will know exactly how the product of such heritage management will be applied in the various projects, in the next decade, that is, where the fund of management of these resources is then applied in the Armed Forces. In this way, it is necessary to make this real estate real estate profitable. Another aspect that we also have to explain to people well is that this law does not impose the State budget at all. That is, this law is financed by its own revenue product and it is not appropriate to say that we are taking money to health or education, because we are not. This law is financed by the product and revenue of its own management. Therefore, this law is neutral in relation to that. And, yes, the product of the profitability of the military heritage must be invested in the Armed Forces, it would be bad if it was invested in another area! This investment has to remain in the Armed Forces, which they need, and much, from it; moreover, as we well know and have been accompanied by the Defense Commission, visiting the whole country and the islands, we need this investment in many military units. Mr Minister, with regard to the lessons learned that were mentioned by the Secretary of State, I wonder if, in fact, in this bill, the Government has learned well from them. One of the questions to which the Secretary of State did not answer had to do with the evaluation of the estate, which is made by the Ministry of Finance, but should be by the Ministry of Defence, to ensure greater agility and speed. Was this thought or discussed? Why didn't this happen in changing the law? The second has to do with captivating. It is true, Mrs. Secretary of State, that this law does not have captivations, but also, as my colleague Joaquim Raposo said, the enforcement of the law in recent years, especially in 2016, was €100,000 and in 2017 it was €3.9 million. Therefore, Mr Minister, the Secretary of State and colleagues of the Socialist Party, it was also necessary that the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, had much to do to make the seizures with a product with such weak and so limited execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u202	It wasn't impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u203	Mr Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, alerted to what I have already said regarding the Military Programming Act: they may well proclaim and say n times that there are no captivations in these two laws, but the Military Programming Act without captivating has never been executed by this Government by more than 90 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u204	Whose fault? It's not just the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u205	Moreover, the 2018 report, which was submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, has an execution of 84 % less than 2017, even without seizures, because there is a trick by the Ministry of Finance, which is called « retention of funds available ». In other words, it is not captivating, it is not referred to in the budgetary framework law, but, after that, the funds will be retained and, from then on, obviously, they are captivated. Therefore, Mr Minister, I hope and hope that the implementation of this law will in fact enable the effective use of these same mechanisms of the law. I am extending myself a little over time, Minister, but I still wanted to talk about the adoption of this law. We were pleased with the outcome of the negotiation that was made in the Defence Committee on the Military Programming Act. There was availability from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and the Government for the approval of a law with the broad and wide support of the Assembly of the Republic and the abstention of the Communist Party. With regard to this law, we are also available for this consensus to be achieved, in the field of specialty. The fact that we abstain in your vote, in general, does not mean that we do not vote in favour, in the overall final vote, as we did in relation to the Military Programming Act. I hope that, as the Secretary of State has already said, the Government will be open to that same consensus and, if necessary, to fine-tune some mechanisms and some amendments to the legislation. This consensus can be reached for the approval of a desired and necessary law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u206	You want to finish, Mr. João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u207	... and an important budgetary mechanism for the Armed Forces, in this case, for the investment that must be made in their infrastructures, which are so needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u208	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, Secretary of State for National Defence : Before entering more concrete aspects of this bill, I would like to leave two previous notes on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. The first is to say that this proposal for a military infrastructure law, strictly speaking, should be called a "proposal for a national defence infrastructure law", considering that there are buildings that are affected by national defence which are not for military use or military public domain, as is the case with buildings that are affected by the National Maritime Authority, in particular lighthouses, lifesaving stations and Captains, which can be profitable and which have never been for military use. The second note is to enhance the proposed objective, in order to channel most of the funds obtained through the profitability of buildings affected by national defense and that are available for maintenance, recovery and recovery projects of the national defence infrastructures in use, away from the possibility of being used for other purposes. With regard to the proposed law, which we are discussing today, in which we are proposing the establishment of « investment programming with a view to meeting the needs of the armed forces'infrastructures, by making the state's national defence heritage profitable », we can say that it is a genuine blank check. If not, see Article 1 ( 2 ). , it is stated that « the buildings to be profitable under this law are made up of the government members responsible for the areas of finance and national defence ». Thus, if there is no order, the law has a null incidence; on the other hand, if there is order, the scope of the buildings to be affected is unknown from the Assembly of the Republic. Article 4 ( 3 ). it shall clarify that « it is the competence of the member of the Government responsible for the area of national defence to create new measures which do not alter the overall value of the Annex to this law or which are financed by additional revenue than provided for therein and the cancellation of existing measures ». So there is the question of what role is reserved for the Assembly of the Republic by adopting a law that the Ministry of National Defence and the Government can completely overthrow. From here on, we already have a better understanding of the tables presented to us and which have the responsibility to tell us everything and nothing to say at the same time. The proposal refers to « investment forecast for improvement of military facilities, in order not only to benefit from the effectiveness of the operation of the Armed Forces, but also to recruitment and its attractiveness », refers to « priority to security issues of heritage » and refers to the need to « direct the revenue made to the investment necessary to maintain the real estate in use ». But when the maps generally refer to the fixed components of the Ministry of National Defence, EMGFA, Army, Navy and Air Force, in particular, what are we talking about? We point out that intervention in the infrastructures of the fixed component is crucial for the future territorial deployment of the Armed Forces, which is of the utmost importance in ensuring the exercise of sovereignty over the territory and which should therefore count on the clear commitment of the Assembly of the Republic. Moreover, in our perspective, the territorial deployment of the Armed Forces must be in line with the demographic, geographical and economic-industrial reality of the country and, in this territorial deployment, cooperation and complementarity between the three branches of the Armed Forces should prevail. We share the concern about the need for investment, particularly in the Armed Forces Hospital, in the security of facilities and the urgent improvement of the living conditions of military units. In particular, however, priorities and timing are not defined in the proposed law. It is not known what the financial resources are available and where they will be applied, in addition to not being defined even a minimum amount for each of the projects to be implemented. in this framework, we consider that the proposed law of the military infrastructures that the Government has presented raises doubts as to its approval. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u210	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for National Defence, Mr. State Secretaries : It is evidence that the Military Infrastructure Act does not have the same political importance as the Military Programming Act, but it does not cease to be important either. Another real and concrete observation is that these two laws will withdraw to the public record over the next decade more than EUR 5000 million, and I do not believe what Mr Rebel said recently. For the Left Block, this is unacceptable. The costs of this amplitude, proposed by the current Government in the military forum, for the acquisition and maintenance of military means of war and other operational means and for the implementation in infrastructure of the fixed component of the national military system, will be a huge financial effort for the country. It is paradigmatic that a government bets, in times of peace, on an orgy of military spending, much of them directed to external intervention missions, when, for example, as I said recently, failure in public investment, failure in improving public services, in the National Health Service, in public school and denying rights to the teaching class and other categories, in our country. In the proposed law submitted by the Government, some positive aspects are highlighted, such as the use of military real estate in a perspective of complementarity and rationality, the sharing between branches, the physical improvement of the Armed Forces Hospital, which is in a very alarming situation, and even the strengthening of the surveillance and security of military infrastructures, so as not to repeat shame and crimes such as that of Tanks, the responsibility of several governments, PS and PSD / CDS. We do not deny that it is necessary to modernise and adapt the military infrastructure and the real estate park of the Armed Forces. It is public heritage, which cannot be disposed of in the waste and cannot also be the subject of speculative real estate operations. If so, we know who loses and we know who wins: loses public interest and earns private interests. This bill more looks like a sales counter and other real estate operations such as leases, leases, partnerships with real estate promoters and establishment of real estate investment funds. Are we going to have crowns, generals, admirals transformed into real estate agents? You don't know! On the other hand, the criteria for real estate to be transferred or leased should be set out in law, and even obligations of preference or special conditions, in respect of different means of management, sale, lease, public institutions or social solidarity that need such facilities for their operation, such as schools, universities, social and sports centres, etc. The bill also makes an omission as to the failure to comply with contracts and the effective implementation of penalty clauses. There is a need for greater demands on these matters, which do not appear in the document submitted. Above all, in defence infrastructures too, it is important to take into account the priority of the public interest rather than transforming into speculative business, which would not be positive for the Armed Forces or the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u212	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, Secretary of State for National Defence : The LIM proposal, the law of military infrastructure, which we are discussing today, in general, is, like the LPM, the Military Programming Act, approved at the end of last week, of the greatest relevance. It provides for the programming of the investment aimed at meeting the infrastructure needs of the Armed Forces, and for this purpose it uses the cost of the estate of the defence-affected State, but also has about its conservation, maintenance, security and modernization. in this sense, it lays down the provisions on the management of immovable property to be profitable and to apply the profits obtained in the measures and projects envisaged therein, and is therefore Mr. Deputie do Bloco de Left, self-sustainable. The proposal therefore contains a set of rules for the possible types of profitability of these buildings, such as alienation, renting or permutation, and also refers to the forms of profitability provided for in the legal system of public real estate, such as the concession of use. We agree that it will be possible to channel funds to meet the pressing investment needs in national defence infrastructures only by making them profitable. However, in the case of concession of use, practice deserves some reluctance. Understandings established with some authorities, through transfer agreements and protocols, have raised issues related to the lack of transparency of the processes and perhaps exchange of political favors. We therefore ask why this new LIM does not provide for transparency mechanisms. There are three proposed amendments to the LIM version that are still in force. First, the provision, in the programming law itself, of the exemption from the appropriations entered, as already proposed for the Military Programming Act. Secondly, the non-demanding of the military public domain of property affected by national defence, in use by the General Staff of the Armed Forces and by the three branches, to enable their profitability. This possibility was provided in previous versions of the LIM, but it never had a practical application. Third, the authorisation of the application at the expense of the transferred balances, with the aim of enabling the development of the law enforcement procedures from the beginning of each economic year. Currently, the execution of the investment has been conditioned by the legal requirement of maintenance at the end of the year of an amount balance equal to the initial one, which in practice means that the expenditure can only be executed in the exact measure and at the time when the revenue of the year is being made. But we also know that this law is different from the LPM and that capitulations, here, have existed. There have been a number of non-compliances with the funds, not only by withholding the proceeds of the divestment, but also by delaying the transfer of the balances. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the real estate of the Armed Forces is oversized. There are many reasons, in particular those resulting from professionalization and reduction, but also those arising from the new means and systems of arms or from the change in the type of mission currently based on prolific forces. Similarly, pesosity is introduced to the labour performance of military officers. It is well known that the dissatisfaction of many of the hired military also corresponds to the poor quality of the facilities and this should question us how the investment choices of the money made with the profitability of the buildings are made and why LIM does not provide a mechanism for choosing that investment that allows transparency in the process of choice. Similarly, taking into account the large amounts involved in this LIM, it is strange that there is no effective control mechanism to ensure whether or not the funds are applied for the purposes for which they are intended. The PSD, although highlighting the enormous relevance of this law, does not fully identify itself with all the proposals in it embodied. Responsiblely, it will not leave either through its sense of vote at this stage of generality, but above all in the subsequent phase of speciality, through the proposed amendments, to contribute to making the final result more consistent with the real need for missions and the performance of the Portuguese Armed Forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u214	For a new intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, Secretary of State for National Defence, Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs: Mr Minister, today we meet here, in plenary, the League of Friends of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of National Defence. And why? Because we have a legislative initiative by the Government which, despite having some repairs from the various parties — even repairs with well-deserved colors, such as Mr. João Vasconcelos' repairs or less shouts by Mr. Jorge Machado, but are important repairs and that we should bring to the debate — which is one of the support of the overall financing of the activities of the Ministry of National Defence. We still have the Military Programming Act and we have normal funding through the State Budget. But this law of military infrastructure is a relevant law in the perspective of qualifying the heritage of the Ministry of National Defence, and here we agree with the CFP when it considers that this law is destined for national defense. We also agree with the parties—and they all mentioned it here—that there is a need for greater transparency, a unit accompanying the implementation of this programme, the identification of buildings, which is not yet done and which the Government must do, the need to have a more flexible link with local authorities. In all these universes, we believe that the conditions are met so that, after tomorrow's vote, we can work together with the Ministry, in order to have a law of military infrastructure with a broad consensus in the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that we will be able to do so, demonstrating once again that the Assembly of the Republic is aware of its circumstances, finding a widely consensual law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u216	To close the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to express my satisfaction with the debate here, especially in so far as it has been possible to demonstrate the broad consensus on the importance of this law, as regards the need for this law, as regards the usefulness of this law. Almost all the speakers recognized these characteristics of the law and even Mr. João Vasconcelos recognized that it is important to invest in the Armed Forces Hospital, which is important to invest in the security of our military infrastructure, but it is not, however, clear from where funding would come for it, since it seems to reject the premise that it should come from the provision of infrastructure that is not necessary for our Armed Forces. I would like to stress our willingness to engage in dialogue, just as we had during the discussion period of the Military Programming Act. As always, we recognize that our proposals may not be perfect, they can be improved, they can be improved and this House has expressed its willingness to contribute to that end. Therefore, for all parliamentary groups which have no ideologically-based aprioristic rejection of the fundamental objectives of this military infrastructure law, I express our readiness for dialogue and our interest in finding a consensus for this law to be adopted with the greatest possible majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u218	We therefore close the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 188 / XIII / 4. a. We turn to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020. To present the legislative initiative, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring to Parliament is simple, it has to do with the organisation of two competitions by UEFA ( Union of European Football Associations ) and aims to allow organizers, clubs and players not resident in Portugal to be exempt from IRS or IRC. In fact, this is what it is common to do when there are these kinds of event organizations. I would like to stress that we are talking about non-resident entities and, as such, for many of these incomes, non-taxation has already flowed from the conventions to avoid double taxation. What this bill does is an additional guarantee that because of these events in Portugal, there is no taxation in Portugal, without prejudice to the possibility of such entities being resident in the State of residence. It is in this sense that we bring this proposal, which is similar to other laws which the Assembly of the Republic, on identical occasions, has already approved. I am therefore at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Members on some issue that they consider appropriate to clarify. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u220	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, for the competitions of UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020, the Government proposes, and I quote, « a special tax regime to apply to all incomes of non-resident entities associated with these finals, in particular the entities organising this competition, the associations of countries and sports clubs, their players and the technical teams(... ) ». In short and concluding, perhaps by exchanging for kids, what the government here proposes is a real tax credit to the football industry: EUR 3, EUR 25 billion is the annual value of the total gross commercial revenue that UEFA thinks it will have in relation to these activities. For clubs, EUR 560 million will be distributed, of these EUR 3, EUR 25 billion. Mrs. Members of the Government, the question is very simple: tell the country what is the value of the tax bill that they come here to propose giving. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u222	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u223	Mr President, Mr Luís Monteiro, I would like to thank you for the question you have raised, but I would also like, with my reply, to help you not to fall into temptation, because I assume that is not what you want, to do a huge demagogy. Mr President, what the Government brings here is not a proposal for a tax ruling. What the Government brings here is a proposal to prevent non-resident entities in Portugal from paying the tax in Portugal, but to pay the tax in the State of residence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u224	They don't pay either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u225	This is already the result of the Convention to avoid double taxation, but it is clear that this is the case, because there are some kind of income, such as royalties, that does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u226	Don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u227	Mr President, that is not what is at issue. You have already had the opportunity to do your 'number' of demagogy, but I ask you to study carefully, because your intervention, which is not a matter, is pure demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u228	We continue with an intervention by Mr António Cardoso, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group begins by congratulating the Portuguese Football Federation for being chosen to organize the final phase of the UEFA 2019 League of Nations and UEFA 2020 Supertaça, as well as the Portuguese Government for the support given to this candidacy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the conduct of sporting events has become a very important global economic activity. in this opportunity, it will be interesting to recall the excellent examples of the tourist boom resulting from the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, and the effects of the Euro 2004, a sporting event that brought Portugal an extraordinary internationalization of our tourist potentials. Having made this brief framework of the effects of sport on the economy, it will be worth stressing the existence of excellent sports infrastructures in our country, which, together with our extensive experience in organising sporting events, were crucial to the allocation of the organization of the final UEFA 2019 League of Nations, to take place in Guimarães and Porto, from 5 to 8 June, and the end of the UEFA Super Cup, to be held in Porto, August 2020. It will be fair to stress the merit that the Portuguese Football Federation has obtained, by competing alongside the strongest applications such as Italy and Poland. However, although the Portuguese Football Federation has submitted an excellent candidature, it was necessary to comply with an unmistakable tax condition required by the UEFA Regulation. In order to overcome this obstacle, the guarantee of the Government of the Republic to meet this regulatory requirement of UEFA was crucial. Recognised the allocation by UEFA to the Portuguese Football Federation of the organization of the two UEFA competitions, the Government submitted to this Chamber, the Proposal for Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a, establishing the tax regime of UEFA competition organizers, as well as associations of countries and sports clubs, their players and technical teams, as a result of their participation in those parts. The established tax system allows the exemption of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) and IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) for the revenues received. Having arrived here, it should be recalled that it is a tax regime that is identical to what has been applied to the revenues received in Portugal in the framework of the Euro 2004, as well as at the end of UEFA’s football league competitions in 2014. Furthermore, in all the countries hosting competitions at the end of UEFA tournaments, tax regimes similar to those contained in this bill apply. This is therefore a practice followed by similar situations in Portugal and other European jurisdictions in relation to sports competitions of this nature. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unequivocally the tourist and economic interest underlying these competitions, particularly in terms of the image which, through them, the Country will project abroad. In short, Portugal has only to win with the realization of these two sporting events, so the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this bill, hoping to be accompanied by the other parliamentary groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u230	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: Mr. Secretary of State said that this bill guarantees that there will be no double taxation on the commercial activity on the table and that the economic activities carried out in Portugal will be taxed in the country of origin of these same entities. Now, Mr Secretary of State, if there is demagogy in this debate, it is summarized by the phrase of Mr Secretary of State. What the Secretary of State is saying here is that the economic activities carried out in Portuguese territory will be taxed in the country of origin of these same entities. Well, the demagogy is all here! We understand that the government is very quick to present accounts for what is appropriate for it, but today it arrives at Parliament and proposes a tax bill, without presenting a number on that same tax bill. You don't have a number on that tax bill! Well, demagogy is also giving Parliament the idea that these economic activities are even taxed somewhere, as if we weren't talking about a giant off-shore walking. About this, Mr. Secretary of State, I invite you to see the Panama Papers process. It has a lot to read about, from players to clubs and sports entities who have "washed" money and used off-shore and this kind of tax mechanisms to not pay anywhere. And the government is consistent with this. UEFA says that there is a condition, which is indeed a requirement: « either they guarantee the tax bill or there is no sport activity in Portugal ». And the government stands in front of blackmail.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u232	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u233	That is the shame of this proposal, Mr Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary of State comes here and proposes a tax bill and does not even say how much that tax bill is worth. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u234	For the Portuguese Communist Party, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The Government submits a bill establishing a specific tax regime for the end of UEFA competitions, which will take place in Porto and Guimarães, in June 2019 and August 2020, exempting from the payment of IRS and IRC the revenues collected by events organizers, associations of countries and sports clubs and their players, as well as by the technical teams participating in them, which are not considered tax residents in Portugal. There are at least two precedents for this. The first one, established in the 2000 State budget, concerns the organisations of the Euro 2004 and the associations of the participating countries, as well as the sportsmen, technicians and other actors involved in the organisation of the championship. The second refers to two final UEFA competitions, which took place in Lisbon in 2014. in these two situations, the PCP abstained, raising a set of questions. Why is it considered that non-resident entities in Portugal and participating at the end of UEFA should be exempt from the payment of IRC and IRS when tax codes explicitly establish that income derived from the exercise in Portuguese territory from the activity of show or sports professionals is subject to tax payments? Why is it chosen to exempt only the events of a certain sport mode and, within this mode, only a concrete event and not all similar events of all sports modes? Why is it chosen to exempt sports activities and exclude the activities of show professionals, even though the IRS and IRC Codes treat these activities on an equal footing? Why are successive governments legislating the petition instead of proposing a general exemption scheme covering sporting events or show professionals? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : These issues, raised by the CFP, in 2000 and 2014, remain all current and relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u237	It is the CFP that the exemptions proposed by the Government for UEFA competitions, in line with what they proposed earlier governments, should not be dealt with on the subject, but should be included in a broader debate on the possible creation of a tax exemption scheme aimed at the activities of professionals of shows and sportsmen considered of particular importance. It would be a more comprehensive debate of these, which would allow for solutions that would guarantee more justice and tax equity, which would allow solutions that would not discriminate against sports events in relation to other sports events or sports events in relation to shows of other nature. It is this more comprehensive debate that needs to be done and not a case-by-case approach that can lead to tax injustice and injustice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u238	It is now the turn of the Social Democratic Party. Mr Leonel Costa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have today is the approval of a tax exemption scheme for income from non-resident legal and natural persons in the context of two events organised by UEFA which will take place in our territory and which are, as a rule, subject to taxation. We are talking about the final four games of the League of Nations, already next month, and the end of the European Super Cup, in 2020. That there is no doubt: for the PSD, the performance of these competitions in Portugal is indeed a further value. The advantages are undeniable, especially for the dynamization and projection in the world of the image of the cities of Porto and Guimarães, as well as of our country. However, neither does it cease to be true, and the PSD, in defending the interests of the Portuguese, cannot forget that, with this government, the tax burden has increased to the highest levels of time. I have already said it here, about another matter, and I repeat again: in this Parliament, there have already been 34 increases in taxes and taxes. [[PS protests.]] Now, when this maximum tax burden has been reached, which the left-wing majority wants to maintain for the next few years, and not having the Portuguese assent to the well-assembled and fine-tuned tax hunting machine of this government, we believe that one should look with particular caution at the fairness of granting benefits and exemptions to non-residents in this particular context, when the Portuguese and residents, yes, are tied to this huge tax monster.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u240	Do you want proof or don't want proof? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u241	in this context, any rule that means the creation of benefits or any form of creating tax expenditure must deserve the reluctance of the Portuguese. In fact, this is a good time to ask the Government, in the person of Mr. Secretary of State, where is the so-called tax benefit report and the reform for its restructuring, also promised by his Government. For the PSD, and for there to be no doubt, today we have not only the greatest tax burden of all time in Portugal, but also the tax expenditure — benefits and exemptions — at the highest ever. With this government, the amount of tax benefits and exemptions reached EUR 12 billion, practically the amount of IRS invoice paid by the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u242	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u243	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The scheduling of this bill, for those who read only part of its title, could seem to be a unique moment in this legislature, because it is a matter of discussing a special regime, at the tax office, and a special regime for the deterioration of the tax incidence. Obviously, the good intention of this initiative is frustrated when we see that it is intended for non-residents. The government has the following problem: there can only be particularly generous regimes, from a fiscal point of view, if they are not for residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u244	It's like the goldens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u245	Therefore, what is created is something that the Portuguese would very much like to create for their own economic activity, but we know that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP, in relation to the economic activity of resident citizens and resident entities, do not have any kind of sensitivity. That said, on the specific issue, there are two questions to which we must answer in order to vote on this initiative. Is this an extension of the tax base or a restriction of the tax base? In other words, what this bill does is to increase economic activities subject to tax or to reduce economic activities subject to tax? Indisputably, when it comes to a specific phenomenon, depending on certain conditions, this phenomenon only occurs if the conditions are met. And the event of the phenomenon generates another economic activity, also likely to pay taxes, and therefore there is indeed an extension of the tax base.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u246	The VAT of the restaurant? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u247	On the other hand, we need to know whether or not the event brings positive externalities, from an economic point of view, to the country. And, from our point of view, it brings positive externalities with a tax effect and a non-tax effect. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Having said this, once again, it is only unfortunate that the government has so much tax sensitivity for non-resident entities and does not have it for residents. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u248	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I wanted to start by saying that I do not follow this government initiative, for obvious reasons. The first reason is that if the question of tax benefit is a commitment to UEFA ( Union of European Football Associations ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u250	It's not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u251	... this, in order to be done, would have to go through the Assembly of the Republic, because it is tax matters and the government, or the Portuguese Football Federation or anyone who negotiated with UEFA, could not have made a commitment on this matter. Therefore, the argument of commitment to UEFA, for me, does not take it. As for the argument of the benefit of positive externalities to the national economy, if we started to give tax benefits to everything that generates positive benefits and externalities to the national economy, we had fiscal incentives in barda, and I think that is not what we are doing. Compare this with the Euro 2004? Oh, my God! There's no comparison possible! The 2004 Euro was an organization that involved thousands of events, involving thousands of people; in this case, these are three sporting proofs. So it's another argument that doesn't convince you. On the day that this country has tax benefits, for now, for other sports, than football, and then for culture and not for sport, there, I will support this kind of initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u253	The next item is the statement by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am very sorry to have to be in a debate on tax demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u255	in this demagogy championship, I will then have to speak to the champions of demagogy, in particular to the benches on the right. Mr João Almeida and Mr Leonel Costa, I would like you to speak with me. Members could read the Banco de Portugal Economic Bulletin, which came out now in May, because it says two very simple things. First of all, it says that, between 2004 and 2016, the structural tax revenue rose by 0, 4 percentage points of GDP ( gross domestic product ), exactly the same as it rose from 2016 to 2018,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...but with a difference, sirs. Members : it is during the previous legislation that tax revenue was increased by legislative policy measures, while it was the legislative policy measures of this legislation that contributed to the reduction of tax revenue and, therefore, to the relief of tax burden, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u256	You're demagogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u257	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u258	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u259	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u260	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same: what we are proposing here is a regime...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u261	A big tax bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u262	... allowing non-resident entities not to pay double taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u263	There is no taxation anywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u264	... which the Assembly of the Republic has already done in the past and which, we believe, is in a position to do in the present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u265	Since the Government is the author of the agenda, it has two minutes at the end of this debate, which will be used by Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport. You have the floor, therefore, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I would like to take advantage of the closure of this debate to remind you that, apart from the fiscal dimension that is at issue here, there are, of course, other dimensions on which it is important to speak, such as the sport dimension, the economic dimension and also the dimension of our country's own external image. I think it will be unanimous that this Assembly, and I believe that the country itself, considers a great benefit for the image of our country the organization of competitions of this nature, not only, of course, for the city of Porto, for the Dragon Stadium, for the city of Guimarães and for the stage D. Afonso Henriques, but also for the whole country. I remember that sport today makes an absolutely unequivocal contribution to the economic development of our country and these competitions will, of course, also make their contribution. I would still like to refute the idea — even because it has been stated here, during this debate, and I cannot let it go — that there is any preference for any sport mode. There are tax benefits for any sports modality in our country and there is also a recognition, which must be made here, and precisely, to a federation, which is the Portuguese Football Federation, to whom the victory of getting these competitions to take place in our country is ultimately due. It is not really a matter that represents any novelty—it has also been mentioned here that in 2004 we live a situation similar to this — the truth is that it is more important for national sport, for the country as a whole, and therefore the Government is convinced that it can have unequivocal support from the Assembly of the Republic in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u267	The general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4 is thus closed. a. We are now considering the 2017 ERC Activity and Accounts Report ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not registering any entries at the moment. [[Pause.]] However, three inscriptions have emerged, so we can start the debate, but I ask the parliamentary groups to proceed with their registrations. You have the floor for one speech, Mr José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u268	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I leave three notes on the ERC's Activity and Accounts Report, which I summarised as follows: « what we went to get here », « 2017 in flashback » and « what comes there ». « What we have been doing here» is a way of saying that we appreciate this ERC Report when the year 2019 is almost halfway, that is, we already know all about 2017, we already have reports on public radio and television service in 2018 and in 2019 we have accompanied, in the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, the situation of the Portuguese media, and there are changes. The public sector has made a big leap in the supply of digital services, so big that news is very bad-published. RTP gave a profit of €330 000. He's stopped walking around. We're screaming for the privatization of television and radio. The Lusa is in good hands and no longer a headache—even doing a campaign against fake news—the problem is digital breakdown. This leads us to the second note: « 2017 in flashback». In 2017, one ERC life cycle ended and another started. The year was marked by an incredible mega 'inconsecution', which the Report summarizes as follows: regarding the acquisition of the Media Capital Group by MEO / Altice, « (...) the Regulatory Council declared that it did not have a unanimous understanding of the risks systematized for pluralism in the field of social communication in Portugal and thus did not obtain a consensus on the meaning of the entity's pronunciation in relation to the acquisition project. If we were to act in this way in relation to legislation, we would not legislate and we would have 'unfollowed' laws behind each other. The formulation is absolutely twisted and reveals a sad time. The operation was sob, but not thanks to the ERC, which went through the test cryingly, in one of the domains that led to its creation. It took 19 753, 01 € fines, which either indicated other failures or proof that in our media an exemplary obedience to the law, which is something that none of us found, but finally... [[PS laughter.]] The year 2017 was the year of the electronic registration of publications, a positive point, but a transparency data reporting portal was created which, contrary to what is said, is not accessible to citizens, to know the financial flows, as, by mistake, Dr. Poiares Maduro says, because he believes in the law he helped to do, but does not take into account that it is not being applied. There are even some of the visas that ask to keep confidential data, so that neither the ERC, regulator, know them, which I think is truly frightening. Therefore, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, who was brutally attacked when he criticized the fact that we do not know who owns certain media—which is known to sell virtually nothing and continue to appear in the windows—he went well and put his finger in a huge wound. Finally, last note : « what's coming there ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u269	You have to finish, Mr. José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u270	I will finish, Mr. President. What's coming? There are already operators over the top; there comes the 5G, but not anymore; there is Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, which means that the ERC will have new skills. In order not to get stuck and take the good lessons of the year horribilis of 2017 you need something to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u271	It's the government not captivating money!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u272	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we analyse the 2017 ERC Activity and Accounts Report, which makes a clear picture of the regulator's monitoring and analysis during 2017. We are faced with a well-structured document, which contains fundamental information for the interpretation and knowledge of the reality of the media market by areas of action. According to the 2017 Activity and Accounts Report, the budgetary position of the ERC shows a negative overall balance for the second consecutive year as a result of 4 % loss of revenue and expenditure growth by 1, 9 %. I would also like to stress that according to the report for the second consecutive year, the transfer relating to the participation of ERC in the net results of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) has not been implemented, which is now around EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u274	Captivating!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u275	The PSD had the opportunity to alert the government to this situation, and did so in various forums. The PSD has questioned the guardianship, without reply to this date. We also had the opportunity to convey our concern to Mrs. Minister of Culture at the hearing of the State Budget for 2019 and in a regiment hearing, however, the Minister does not respond, with the justification that it is not in the sphere of its Ministry. Great misconception of the Minister, therefore, in accordance with Article 2. the Decree-Law No 103 / 2006 of 7 June approving the ERC Tax Scheme, as amended by Decree-Law No 70 / 2009 of 31 March 2009 is annually fixed by the office of the responsible government members, among others, by the areas of finance and social communication. We also regret the continuation of the policies followed by the current government, in particular that of capitulations, which deprive the Regulatory Entity of the sources of its budget for social communication. This is, in our view, unacceptable from the outset because it makes it impossible for the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication to exercise its legally intended powers. The Social Democratic Party wants it to be clear that this policy of captivating carried out by the current government creates difficulties for the ERC in ensuring the fulfilment of the constitutional rights and duties legally enshrined, with regard to the sector of social communication, such as freedom of printing and the right to information. And this is really serious! It also refers to the report in appreciation which, in large part, the consumption of television in the country is made through subscription service. Only 32, 7 % of households use TDT ( terrestrial digital television) and, among them, 17, 8 % exclusively. I would also like to express my appreciation to the ERC for the study on the extension of the bid in the TDT, which was promptly sent to the Assembly of the Republic, and the same cannot be said of the attitude of the Government. The Council of Ministers of June 2016 approved the extension of TDT to two public and two private channels, the latter awarded by tender. The opening of this contest was expected until the end of 2018, but only last January did the Minister guarantee that the publication of the bill of charges would be soon. Until the end of the legislature, we all continue to wait for the realization of another promise to be fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u276	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This ERC Activity and Accounts Report does not bring great news in relation to 2017, neither at organic level nor at functional level, although the net positive result that, compared to 2016, is a significant leap that should not fail to stand out. So here is a certain stability in this matter, which is not contempt. But this stability, if it has a good side — and it is usually good that there is stability — also has a bad side, which is also important to point out. The radiography that this Regulatory Report makes to Portuguese social communication clearly shows us, and that is the good side of this stability, that there are some challenges of the past that remain overcome, and that is good. For example, I am talking about Portuguese music quotas on the radio, whose limits have not only been clearly exceeded as in some cases even exceeded; I am talking about sound levels on television, which have been a problem until a few years ago and today are also relatively fulfilled; I am talking about rigor and information exemption, a fact that it is also important that we note, in the sense that there is a clear separation between information and opinion, and in Portugal we do not have this problem, and that is good to mention;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u279	... I am also speaking on the question of programme services in Portuguese, in which, in fact, in most channels, more than 50 % of emissions were originally made in Portuguese, and this is also a fact that it is important to point out. Unfortunately, as in all matters, there is normally a bad side, and the bad side has to do with some challenges that have not yet been overcome. I am talking about, for example, the issue of accessibility in regard to television, which is not yet overcome, and this is a serious problem that remains; I am also talking about TDT ( terrestrial digital television) and the fact that we continue to live on the absolute maraism in regard to this matter, in which only 18 % of the Portuguese population uses exclusively TDT, continuing to increase the number of people who access TV through subscription, subscribed television, this is a drama that we have not been able to cancel in Portugal; and I am speaking — and this is the fundamental issue — of the state in which Portuguese social communication is found. The portrait that the ERC makes us, the X-ray that the ERC leaves us is bad in this domain. The number of active newspaper publications on paper continues to fall peak—in 2017, it was thus and is not estimated to have improved in 2018. What is gained in digital, in this field, does not in any way compensate for the loss of paper. In 2017, only 50 % of the population went mad or read newspapers. TV continues to be disregarded by the younger layers. Social networks have transformed opinions into information, to the detriment of true information. Therefore, this report mirrors the problems that we all know exist and that we have not had the ability to reverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u280	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u281	I will finish, Mr. President. This kind of erosion of social communication is a serious problem with which we are all at arm's length and with which we have not yet been seriously discussed, nor have we taken it seriously. It's time to start thinking about this problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u282	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The criticisms that the CFP has always made to the nature and design of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication are well known, which should of course not be confused with any kind of judgment of value regarding the suitability of persons who are members of the CER or its Regulatory Council. But in this discussion we cannot fail to mention, as we have already done earlier, that an entity such as the ERC, which has as its primary function the pluralism of social communication, is not in its own composition a model of pluralism. from there the criticism that we have always made, since this entity was proposed, in the seat of constitutional review, a criticism of the PCP to which time actually comes giving reason. When we consider, in plenary, this 2017 ERC Report, which was also appreciated in the Commission in September 2018, it is also important to add to this discussion the reality of the social communication sector and its professionals, a sector that is deeply marked by a reality of precariousness, low wages, irregular schedules, intensification of work rhythms and layoffs, by shortening the editorials increasingly and degrading the working conditions of journalists and other professionals who are going to "surviving" these dismissals and who have to do the work of those who are not already there, besides their own work. A deterioration in working conditions which also degrades the quality of information. The precariousness that exists in the public sector — RTP and Lusa — must be combated and the hundreds of workers who respond to permanent needs must be guaranteed their effective linkage and due labour and social rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u284	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u285	But if it is true that in the public sector precariousness must be combated, it must also be, and firmly, in the private sector, because also in the private sector of social communication there are multiple cases of precarious links, low wages, redundancies and labor to the part, of imposition of work rhythms incompatible with the necessary confirmation of the information that guarantee the rigor of the news. We are at a time when the news is highly mercantilized and in which the good news is the news that sells, regardless of the conditions in which it is obtained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u286	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u287	Today, we have the concentration, in a handful of economic groups, of social communication bodies with increasing presence of foreign capital and private bank in their shareholder structures. Today, the power of information is overwhelmingly in the hands of economic groups, who use the economic power they have and the means of which they are owners to produce the content they are most interested in or to disseminate the information that best serves their interests. at a time when much is said about fake news, yes, about those who win and profit from the production and dissemination of manipulated, fake information and the manufacture of lies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u289	There is no doubt that in this reality the public sector of social communication has a fundamental role, and the State must assume its responsibilities in ensuring all conditions for the existence of a plural, independent public sector, which safeguards and guarantees national cohesion and sovereignty, as the CFP has been defending for several years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u290	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u291	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. It is also important to ensure that the problems that persist in the field of digital terrestrial television, both in terms of emissions and in terms of guaranteeing universal access to TDT, are effectively solved because the defence of pluralism, of freedom of the press, of expression and of information is inseparable from the appreciation of journalists and other media professionals and the fight against the concentration of the ownership of the media so that the constitutional right to be informed and informed is met. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u292	The last intervention belongs to Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a word on the time we discussed this report. If it is true that the Report refers to 2017 and we are only debating it in 2019, we assume that there are a number of significant changes in how to inform and report that, if not, in two years may have changed radically. But it is also true that the Assembly of the Republic and the ERC had the opportunity to discuss a study on « Information and misinformation in the digital age ». We could even assume, if we wanted to, that this same study is almost as a complement to this report that we are considering, and that is perhaps the big failure just because we are discussing this report. The world has changed, but there are things that remain exactly the same. The Altice and Media Capital business is a grueling example of how the ERC has failed in its competences. We can have a debate on the financial and budgetary capacity that the ERC has or does not have in its hands, but the way it has dealt with the case of Altice and Media Capital, from the outset, is a political problem that must alert us to the future that comes, but also to the present, to make concrete decisions and to know that, if we have a Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, then we also have an obligation to ensure that it works and that its leaders respond to its actions. The way in which the business of Altice and Media Capital was deliberated was a bad example that, in popular language, we can transmit as "washing hands" from what was on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u294	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u295	That's why ERC needs to be that, ERC. You need to have a role in business in the area of social communication and you cannot escape your responsibility. You need to have a role in the world of fake news, misinformation in the digital age. You did well to present the report, it was a first step, but you need to have that real competence on a daily basis. It needs to have a role on the new attacks on democracy and the manipulations that are made, often from an informative and opinative point of view, in televisions, newspapers, new media, in digital spaces that flooded our communication in the 21st century, especially in recent years. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to all the rich information on the activity of the media bodies or the main production and dissemination numbers of Portuguese materials and content, among other things, what this report tells us is that we need to ensure that the ERC has a more fundamental role and that it is also the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic to ensure and force this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u296	Mrs. Members, having completed the assessment of the 2017 ERC Activity and Accounts Report, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emília Santos to make an announcement to the House. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 2151 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Promotes the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of pre-school children, which falls to 8.The Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-09.u298	I announce to the House that our work will be resumed tomorrow for 10 hours. the first item contains a debate, marked by the Social Democratic Party, on European solidarity and civil protection ; the second point, without time of appreciation, the motion for a resolution No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016 ; and, finally, at the third point, a period of legislative votes. I wish the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The work is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 19 minutes.]]
