ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. The agenda for today's sitting includes two points. the first item consists of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the sustainability of the public social security system. from the second point are the votes scheduled, to be held at the end of that debate. Let us therefore enter the first item on the agenda. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u2	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Guaranteeing the sustainability of social security is a central issue for Portuguese people of all generations, for those who now live in their pensions and for those who today contribute their wages to their future pension. Ensuring the sustainability of public and universal social security to the Portuguese is therefore a fundamental commitment of the XXI constitutional government from the first hour. The first priority was, of course, the recovery of the economy and, in particular, of employment, with the social contributions to continue to grow, between January and March of this year, above 8 % compared to the same period of last year. The improvement of the economic situation has led to a gradual reduction in transfers from the State budget and an increase in transfers of surpluses from the social security budget to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Thus, in 2018, there was not even need for any transfer of the State budget. On the contrary, EUR 1500 million was transferred from the social security budget to the Stabilisation Fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The transfers to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security since 2016 represent 22 % of the total transfers in the last 30 years, which clearly reflects the firm commitment of the current Government to strengthening the sustainability of social security and the future of Portuguese. At the end of March 2019, i.e. at the end of last month, the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security reached the historical value of EUR 18 billion, corresponding to 8, 9 % of Portugal's gross domestic product. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in these three years, the sustainability horizon of the pension system improved 11 years and the possible horizon of application of the reserves of the Financial Stabilization Fund was postponed in more than 19 years than what was foreseen in the State Budget for 2015. That is, the success of the growth and employment economic policy, coupled with prudent budgetary management, has decisively strengthened the sustainability of our social security. Let us be clear: this strengthening of the sustainability of social security did not happen as a result of no measures to increase the retirement age, which some now propose, nor a cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions, as some have recently proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, rather than resulting from an increase in age and reduction in paid pensions, the increase in sustainability of public social security was achieved through the replacement of rights, with the increase in social protection in old age. during these years, we rejected the cuts that had been applied and at the same time, social protection was strengthened in three distinct ways: first, through the increase of pensions above inflation in three consecutive years; secondly, through the extraordinary increases in lower pensions in the last two years; and thirdly, through the extension of the conditions of access to the reform of people with very long contributing careers. That is how we have rightly come to strengthen the sustainability of social security, but also to improve the living conditions of our pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government does not put itself in a position of immobilism, because it does not ignore it — and no one can ignore it! — the demographic challenge and the economic and social challenges posed by social security. To strengthen the sustainability of the social security system, we have diversified the funding sources of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. First, with the allocation of additional income from the IMI to the Stabilisation Fund, since 2017 ; second, by the partial allocation of IRC revenues, phased in, 0, 5 percentage points per year, until stabilize in 2021 the 2 percentage points per year of transfers from the IRC to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Thus, by 2021, the year in which we reach the 2 percentage points of IRC, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund will be strengthened by more than EUR 1000 million, resulting from the diversification of the funding sources that we started in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we invest in a model of development focused on innovation, which is essential to improving the productivity of companies and the competitiveness of the economy, a fundamental condition of long-term sustainability of our social security. The promotion of vocational education, the Qualifica programme — which has already ensured adult education and lifelong training over 315 000 Portuguese - in the last two years, the strengthening of research and development resources, the Interface programme, which facilitates the transfer of knowledge from universities and policies to the business fabric with the creation of collaborative laboratories, technological centres and scientific employment, the Industry 4.0 initiative or the Startup Portugal programme represent an integrated strategy for the sustained improvement of the productivity of our companies, our economy, that is, sustainable social security in a new demographic framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, we are well aware that the demographic challenge we are experiencing actually creates pressure on social security systems, and this awareness is based on a set of measures we have taken. First, to ensure that each family can have their children who want, in particular by pursuing income policy, with the strengthening of the family allowance, which increased between 2016 and 2019 between €1127 and €1300 per year to 70,000 families with children up to 3 years old, but also by combating precarious work and housing. More and better employment also means more equality and better reconciliation between work, personal life and family life. We therefore launched Programme 3 in Line, an action programme for conciliation, and we challenged the social partners to a strategic understanding on this issue, which is already under discussion in the context of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we have done so, assuming that the demographic challenge is not only solved by promoting birth, but that it also requires a strategic look at the potential of migration, without which we will hardly achieve conditions of population sustainability. For this reason, we launched the Return Programme, which seeks not only to promote the return of those who have recently left or who have gone into older migration vacancies, including the Lusodescendants, but also to promote policies that allow us to capture new immigration movements that contribute to a natural balance, which for the first time in 2017 was positive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the sustainability of social security does not have certain recipes or silver bullets, but has basic starting conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u3	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u4	Mr President, I will now conclude. Firstly, a depressed economy, in which wages and pensions are crushed, is an economy that is not sustainable and that does not strengthen social protection systems. A society with more employment, but also with better employment, more stable and better wages, is a society that guarantees sustainable social security. Secondly, we must reject the line of alarmism and adopt a reformist stance. This government will not compromise and remain committed to the path it has defined: more and better employment, conditions for dealing with the demographic deficit and defense of sustainability with balanced management and diversification of sources of social security, for the security of those who depend on it today and those who contribute to its future in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u5	We are now moving to the question stage of the various parliamentary groups. To that end, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before entering the subject which you brought here and which you have just discussed, I would like to ask you a few questions on a topic of full relevance, which obviously has to do with the issue of fuels. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday we saw a country on high ground, with closed petrol bombs, hijacked planes and transports at risk, especially transport relating to security forces and emergency forces. I am not saying that this has generally happened, but it may have happened and there may be a risk of happening. I know that the strike has not yet completed two days and I also know, as we all know, that the civil request has been decreed, but I cannot but ask you three questions, Prime Minister. First question: how was it possible, on a day and a half, to have reached these proportions? Second question: has the government assessed all the consequences and prevented them, as far as possible and as much as they should have done legally? The third question I ask you has to do with the following: the minimum services have been decreed for Lisbon and Porto. And the other regions of the country, notably more touristic regions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u7	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u8	... as for example the Algarve, where do many Portuguese move at this time of Easter? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u10	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, first of all, this is a conflict between private companies and drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u11	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u12	Secondly, last week, on 11th, in the absence of agreement between the parties, the State decreed minimum services. These minimum services were decreed within the scope that had been requested by ANTRAM (National Association of Public Freight Carriers), which considered it necessary to decree them in respect of Great Lisbon and Great Porto. In the light of news that it may be necessary to extend this area, the Government is in contact with both ANTRAM and trade unions to extend minimum services as much as necessary to ensure supply. Therefore, the Government has decreed minimum services in a timely manner. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u13	Yesterday, in view of the finding of failure to comply with the minimum services, the Government declared the civil requirement and made, as is its duty, a mediation effort, ensuring the necessary means for the civil requirement to be carried out. As you know, still last night the unions committed themselves to the minimum services. As to the situation he described, I would like to inform you that only one plane has been diverted, because they preferred to supply it at another location, that supply at airports is fully ensured, that the operation of the security and emergency forces is perfectly ensured and that, when the minimum services are completed, 40 % of the supply will also be ensured everywhere where it is necessary to guarantee it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u14	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, the sustainability of social security has of course never been a taboo topic for the PSD. The PSD was the only party in this room that twice challenged the opposition parties of the extreme left...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u16	"Extreme-left"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u17	...and the Government party to conduct an in-depth study on this matter. Of course, the denials, using a more correct expression, were the norm. in this legislation, the PSD proposed a possible commission to assess the state of social security. The PCP, as is normal, always says that no reform and the Left Block, unfortunately going along the same path, also said no. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u18	Less pensioners reform! That's more PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u19	Further, the PSD insisted and proposed the creation of an independent technical committee. The Left Block said no again, because it says 'no' to all the reforms that you want to make in the country. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u20	We even raise them, look at them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u21	The Socialist Party has also said no again. Mr Prime Minister, is there a problem in social security in the Western world and Portugal? And whether or not, Prime Minister, is there a demographic problem in European societies? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u22	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u23	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, we do not ignore the challenges facing the social security system. Therefore, as of 2007, we promote the deeper reform of social security with a view to ensuring its long-term sustainability,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u25	... that is still internationally referred to as an exemplary reform to ensure sustainability, respecting the rights of pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, on an annual basis, the State budget contains a report on the sustainability of social security. Comparing the report of the last budget submitted by the Government of V. Exa in 2015 with the current situation, we found that, with the change of economic policy and with the assurances of confidence that we have given to taxpayers, we have already extended the sustainability of social security in 11 years, that is, 11 years without deficit of social security, and we have gained 19 years as the period in which it will not even be necessary to use the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. What does this mean? That is to say, we are working, as I said, to strengthen the sustainability of social security: first, with more and better employment; secondly, with a better demographic policy; and thirdly, by diversifying sources of social security financing. That is why, today, we have fewer problems in social security than we had in 2015 and, if we continue with this policy, we will ensure what is essential to ensure everyone: security and confidence in the social security system. So, honourable Member, we have a challenge, we have solutions and we can have confidence in our social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u26	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have indeed a challenge in social security. Mr Prime Minister does not value a fundamental part of the problem of social security: the demographic problem, which is emphasized every year in Portuguese society and in European societies. This problem is discussed in all the countries of the European Union and in Sweden a working group was set up to discuss social security, which took more than half a dozen years to study the problem among all political parties. It is that the set of measures to be taken in this area cannot be taken by one party or by one part of the party spectrum of any country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u28	And we, Prime Minister, have never done that, despite the various PSD initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u29	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u30	We have a serious problem in social security and we cannot hide it under the carpet. I know that we are on the verge of elections and that it is not politically correct to say this, Prime Minister, but let us be honest with the Portuguese. We must tell them that there is indeed a problem with social security, and we must join together and study solutions to that problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u32	It is that the demographic issue is the atomic bomb of social security problems. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u33	Always scaring people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, the speech of self-reliance that I heard recently from the gallery reminded me of the speech of self-reliance of the, at the time, Prime Minister Eng.o José Socrates, in 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u35	Exactly! [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u36	Mr. Prime Minister, do you know what happened after the elections in 2010? The pensions were frozen, two steps were cut in the family allowance, the unemployment allowance was reduced, and so on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u37	It was the socialists!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u38	Always scaring people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u39	It was the socialists who did this. And why, Prime Minister? Because there's a problem in social security. There is a problem that has had some positive evolution in recent years, but this does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u40	It's all a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u41	We have to go further. And I will once again make this challenge to you, Prime Minister : we will bring together all political parties to try to solve the problem of social security in Portugal! In fact, it is not to try, Mr. Prime Minister, to solve the problem of social security in Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u42	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u43	Mr President, honourable Member, my speech was not self-reliance, the facts are. [[PSD laughter.]] I do not share the strategy of dramatizing problems to weaken Portuguese confidence in the public social security system to promote alternative systems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first way to provide sustainability for social security is employment, employment, employment, and better quality employment. What we have confirmed over the past three years is that, contrary to what was planned in 2015, the evolution of the labour market has allowed for 11 years to extend social security without deficits and to increase by 19 years the period in which it will not be necessary to use the Financial Stabilization Fund. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] And if we continue to do so, we will continue to gain what is needed: sustainability for our social security. Secondly, no one can ignore the demographic challenge, which lies not only in terms of the sustainability of social security, but even in terms of the existence of our country. For this reason, the demographic issue was defined as a priority, for example, in the motion I presented at the last Congress of my party. We have advanced in this sense, creating better conditions for young generations to be able to create families, with a new generation of housing policies, with the fight against work precariousness, with the increase of social protection for children, with the improvement of access to preschool, with free school textbooks. This objectively creates better conditions for families to have more children. Thirdly, we have the reversal of migration policy. We don't say to go out there looking for a job. We want to attract more and better jobs to Portugal and we want those who have left to return. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We also know that it is necessary to attract those who, not being Portuguese, can come to contribute to meeting the needs of our labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u44	What country is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u45	Fourthly, we need to improve the productivity of our companies, because it is necessary to increase the wealth in productivity, since the contributions merely based on the wage mass are insufficient. Fifthly, we have taken measures to diversify the sources of funding, not to depend solely on the wage mass and also include the profits of companies or, then, the Portuguese heritage. This is the set of measures that we have taken and that we will continue to adopt, so that all Portuguese have confidence, as they should and may have, in their public and universal social security system and so that they do not have to fall into the temptation of these "serious corners" which the right always likes to do for the privatization of social security. No, that's not our way! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u46	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u47	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you not to invent non-existent'series'. [[PSD applause.]] The problem is real, and Mr Prime Minister has not answered my question or my challenge. Mr Prime Minister, join a group of young people and tell them about social security. The first thing they will tell you will be: "We have to deal with our lives, because the government will not pay us the reform. This is what young people are going to answer. Mr. Prime Minister, it is our duty, it is our responsibility, it is the requirement of all Portuguese that we have a solution to the problems of social security in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u49	Your solution is to cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u50	It is not just in the short term, as the Prime Minister and his government have done. It is our duty, Prime Minister, to join us in finding medium- and long-term solutions to the problem of pensions, reforms and the sustainability of the social security system. Mr Prime Minister, we are talking about the future, but we are also talking about the present, where there are many problems in this area of social security, of which I will give you some examples. They are increasingly cases of citizens complaining of delays in the payment of reforms, which in some cases refer to two years, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u51	That's my case! Two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u52	There are people who, after a full contribution career, have to get back to work, do some biscuits, as it is usually said, in order to survive. Mr Prime Minister, what do you have to say about these problems? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u53	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u54	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, about the future and the present are clearly understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u55	We're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u56	I gave you an example of a set of substantive measures that have been taken to ensure the sustainability of social security in the long term. The only PSD proposal that was known was a measure not in the long term but in the short term: a measure of disrespect by pensioners who were going to cut 600 million euros in the pensions they were paying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As for the delays, this is a real problem, to which, in fact, the PSD is late. This problem has been successively raised by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, to whom I have already been able to state the set of measures that have been taken, which will ensure the replacement of normality in this semester and which have already allowed an improvement of 30 % in the first quarter of this year in relation to the situation of the first quarter of last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u57	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u58	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem is getting worse every year, but your speech only divides. And by dividing, it does not solve any social security problems, except the short-term problems, nor does it solve the current problems, of which I gave you examples and to which you did not answer, Prime Minister. It was good to respond to these problems, at least to the immediate ones, and to be available to, together with all the parties, create medium and long-term solutions for the social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u60	Mr Prime Minister, your Minister for Finance presented on Monday the Stability Programme 2019 - 2023. There will be less growth, more deficit, much more tax burden and much less public investment in that period. This programme has only brought bad news to the Portuguese, moreover, of the usual propaganda, which shows what we have always said: that government policy does not promote sustainable growth and that it is sufficient to blow or breeze for weaknesses to be all in sight. The government also says that there is less growth, but that we will maintain the value of the deficit. At least for once, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to be frontal with the Portuguese... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u61	... and that, to that end, say how the tax burden will be secured: if it will aggravate it, if it will strengthen the captivating or if it will reduce the public investment. Mr. Prime Minister, be frontal and sincere with the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u63	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negro, divide the Portuguese? Oh, my God! So, Mr. Member, who sits next to who said that our elderly and our pensioners were the grey plague of our country, do you talk about dividing the Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, having some Members beaten with their hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u64	I'm asking the ladies. Members not to spoil the furniture and let Mr. Prime Minister continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u66	Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u67	Mr President, I am a little calm so that the debate can take place with its own elevation. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u68	Please, Prime Minister. Serenity is on its way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u69	Whoever divides the Portuguese is who wants to cut generations and break generational solidarity. Those who have called grey plague our elderly and our pensioners are those who want to create panic and intrude our young people's lack of trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who unites the Portuguese is who knows that our generation has no right to choose between the present of our parents and the future of our children and has to guarantee a present worthy of our parents and a future of opportunities for our children. That is why we work and that is how a decent society is built, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is what we do, and I am counting on pensioners today the rights they have and guaranteeing tomorrow's pensioners the rights they can exercise. That is how a decent society is built, and that is how we will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u70	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u71	Sir, I've wasted my time. For the week, you will have the opportunity to discuss the Stability Programme, but please note your concern about the deficit. I am glad you have it because yesterday I did not hear it in the debate you had about the time count of the period when the officials of the Public Administration had their careers frozen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u72	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u73	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u74	Mr. President, it is for the sake of honor, not of the bench, but of myself. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u75	It is for the end of the debate, Mr President, as the Rules of Procedure provide. To request clarification from Mr Prime Minister, you now have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u76	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a clear concern about the strike of dangerous goods transport drivers. I note, however, with some perplexity, the concern on the right, because I do not understand very well whether the right is concerned and asks for solutions, which means that it accompanies the demands of these workers, as well as the demand for wage increases — which would be a novelty — if it is concerned and wants to end the right to strike — which would be serious — or if it is concerned because when it privatized ANA-Aeroports Portugal, and handed it over to Vinci, did not cautiously cover the investment into the pipeline. I didn't understand very well. But there is something that I think this Parliament should debate and for which it must find a solution. It is that the rebellion of many workers and their expectation of better conditions and better wages has been against labour legislation that has withdrawn bargaining power to the unions and has put pressure down in collective bargaining. In the coming days, here in Parliament, we will vote on amendments to the Labour Code and end the expiry of the collective bargaining. The unilateral expiry, which puts the knife and cheese into the hands of the bosses, who removes from the negotiation the ability to solve problems in each sector, is the problem that we are living in, both in the transport of dangerous goods, and in other sectors on strike, and therefore who knows and who wants to respond to the workers what has to do is to repeal the labour legislation of the troika, the PSD and the CDS. That is what this Parliament has to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to talk about the issue that I brought here today, about the sustainability of social security, but I cannot but begin by making the following note: the PSD clearly has a problem with reforms! He had a problem with the reforms when he was a government, having decided to cut the reforms to the elderly, and he continued with a problem with the reforms when he was pushed into the opposition, because he voted against all the increases in the reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u78	I think the PSD should have some shame with the speech you just made. In fact, with the agreement that was made in 2015, what we achieved in three years was to give more than 19 years of life to the Financial Stability Fund for Social Security. This was done with more employment, with more wages, and was also done with the diversification of sources of social security financing, which the right, PSD and CDS, voted against! [[Congratulations from BE.]] We still remember when the CDS said that the additional IMI (municipal property tax), which taxes luxury wealth to give money to social security, was an attack on the middle class.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u80	Maybe the CDS is the only party in the country that thinks the middle class has luxury heritage. But we also remember that Paulo Rangel, on the day that the agreement was signed in the European Parliament, said that the rise of the national minimum wage or the defrosting of pensions would bring the tragedy to Portugal, trying to get the European Commission to stop that path. There are more than 19 years of sustainability of social security. The accounts are much better than they were, and they are better because more jobs, more wages, more economy is the sustainability of social security. You have never answered what was necessary! [[Congratulations from BE.]] More: what do they do? It's the catastrophic speech to say that there's a daddy coming! And they say there's a daddy coming for what? To try to privatize social security and deliver what is from everyone to the Russian role played by the financial system. That, yes, is irresponsible and against it the Left Block hits every day. Social security is those who work, it is better today than it was, it is better because there are more jobs, more wages and more sources of funding, and that must be the way forward. That is why, because we recognize that social security is improved with more employment and more wages, the question I am asking is about labour legislation and two proposals which the Socialist Party has voted on in general, but which, in fact, are not part of the agreement that the Government has made in social consultation and which, for us, are essential. They are proposals to combat precariousness, because only when it comes to combating precariousness is increased contributions to social security and wages. They are proposed to limit the time-limit of the contract and to combat temporary work and outsourcing. My question is this: when you are proud of social security numbers, do you not think that this has to be the way and that these Left Block proposals should go to the end? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u82	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the debate on labour legislation, the Government has complied with its part and now Parliament is debating the legislation that the Government has submitted and the amendments which several parliamentary groups have tabled. With regard to the government, it is very clear that our proposal for a law is the first one to extend the rights of workers since 1976 and in particular focuses on what is essential, which is to combat precariousness in various ways. Firstly, it combats precariousness by eliminating two of the existing causes so that there can be a future contract: to be young in search of the first job or to be long-term unemployed. There is no reason, however, for young people seeking first or long-term employment to be condemned to precariousness. That's why we eliminated these two causes. If our bill is passed, these two causes will be eliminated. If our bill is rejected, these two causes will persist in Portuguese legislation and will continue to be grounds for recourse to the term contract. Secondly, we limit the timeliness of the contract over time, limit the possibility of renewal of the contract over time and ensure that the contract cannot be extended over time, from the outset because no renewal can exceed the first contract period. Therefore, there can never be more than two years and it can even be one year if the first contract is only six months, because the second renewal cannot be greater than the first one either. That is why it is a bill that is even to combat precariousness. Thirdly, for the first time, we have created a rate which exacerbates the conditions of companies that abuse the turnover of their human resources. This is therefore a good bill that the Government has tabled here, and it is now up to Parliament to adopt legislation in final terms. As regards the sustainability of social security, I believe that we fully agree: the best way to ensure the sustainability of social security is through an economic policy that promotes employment. The brutal increase in taxes and the recession it has caused unemployment to increase dramatically. That is why in the 2015 State Budget report it was anticipated that we had already exhausted the capacity for sustainability of social security and that, over the last three years, with a new economic policy, we have won 11 years without the need for deficit and 19 years without the need of the Social Security Financial Stability Fund. The Social Security Financial Stability Fund today has a record value and we have also ensured the diversification of its funding sources. It is clear that the demographic challenge is a real challenge that Portugal, like no European society, no society in the developed world, can ignore. But fighting the demographic challenge is not increasing the age of pensioners or reducing the amount of paid pensions, it is fighting by creating better conditions for the best demographic balance in Portugal. And we can take pride in 2017, for the first time in many years, the balance has been positive. What is crucial for this to happen? First, there's more and better work. Secondly, it ends with the "Cristan law" on incomes and ensures stability and conditions of access to accessible housing so that young families can gain autonomy. It is indeed necessary to create conditions for the diversification of sources of funding, support for family policies is needed, from family allowances, from access to education, from support to informal caregivers, from support to the elderly, so that families have better conditions to have the children they wish. But we must also be aware that birth policies are not enough to have a better demographic balance, we must even have a new migration policy, which implies both an effort to recover those who have left, or an effort to attract those who are needed. This is the new orientation of migration policy that we have and that will also contribute positively to the sustainability of social security. This is how, together, we can ensure that, instead of alarmism, what we give to the new generations is what they have the right to have: tranquillity about their future, confidence that, like their grandparents, like their parents, they themselves will be entitled to receive their pension, through a public and universal system, which is the one that guarantees, in good and bad hours, the future and the right to life of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u83	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u84	Mr President, Prime Minister, we remember that the PSD and the CDS wanted to cut EUR 600 million per year into pensions and we also remember that the Socialist Party's macroeconomic programme had a freeze of EUR 250 million per year. I'm glad that wasn't the way, and we're glad we protected all the pensions. We agree that the sustainability of social security is achieved with more employment and more wages and that the demographic challenge itself needs better employment and better public services. But, Prime Minister, on the precariousness and proposal of the Government, if young people seeking the first job should not be subject to a term contract for this fact, why are they subject to a duplication of the experimental period? Why does a young man looking for the first job have to have twice the experimental period? This is precarious! Why are contracts of very short duration increased to all sectors and allowed to be twice as long — oral contracts? How is this precariousness possible? And why did the Government, which proposed an increase in the TSU for future contracts — the Left Block voted in favour of strengthening social security revenues — when it was to make the agreement with the employers in the social consultation ended up emptying the model and not even reaching the revenue it had foreseen, which was EUR 300 million? The measure has become empty, it only has exceptions and the effect will be null. So I repeat the question: Mr Prime Minister, when you look at social security, when you come here to tell us that what is needed is, in fact, better employment, more pay, when you tell us that young people should not be more precarious because they are young, do you think this is the time to retreat and realize that they cannot be subject to a greater experimental period only because they are young? And that very short-term contracts are nothing more than informality in the economy and employment, with all the worst practices, and that the worsening measure of TSU to penalise precariousness, yes, is that measure that should be strengthened and that would not only have the ability to give more rights to those who work as more social security revenues? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u85	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u86	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the bill is balanced and is a bill that removes a basis from the term contract that has to do with being young in search of the first job. That will no longer be a foundation. It is also balanced because the experimental period is integrated within the time limit of the contract itself. As the deadline for the term of the contract is now extended, the proposed law introduced by the Government will begin within the deadline of the contract, which means that there is no real extension, which is a reduction in the period of precariousness between the experimental period and the contract. This is the result of the bill. And the choice that you will have to make is whether you keep legislation in place which provides for precariousness or whether you can afford legislation which may not be the law of your dreams, but which is an effective progress in combating precariousness, in particular the precariousness of young people. As you have said, we must, in fact, combat precariousness, because, as I have said, this fight is, in fact, essential to the stability of our own. Secondly, it is also essential for the productivity of companies. There are only productive companies investing in training, and they only invest in training companies that do not hire in a precarious way, but that hire long-term. That is the labour market we have to have for a modern economy, which effectively sustains lasting social security. We must do so - as we have done throughout this legislature, not cutting the EUR 600 million on payment, as proposed on the right, but on the contrary strengthening the rights of those who are already pensioners. This is how, in this legislature, over three consecutive years, all pensions have been updated. Thus, in two consecutive years, there were extraordinary increases. That's how we managed to take steps to do justice to the longest contributing careers. This is the way we should go, with sustainable social security. But for social security to be sustainable, we have to have a growing economy, generate more and better jobs, and we have to have accurate accounts. That is why, in addition to measures to promote economic growth and employment promotion, we must also have good and sound budgetary management in order to contribute, in this way too, to generate positive balances that have enabled social security to strengthen the sustainability and reserves of its Financial Stabilization Fund. More growth, better employment and right accounts is a very virtuous triangle that we must continue to be able to promote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u87	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u88	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will already go to the issue of social security, but I would like to start by asking you — you have had the opportunity to explain, but you have explained little — what the Government has done since the time it heard of the strike in the fuel sector, which I suppose was on April 1 when the strike notice was announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u89	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u90	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, what happened was what must happen according to the law. When there is a warning of strike in the private sector, the mechanisms are initiated for the parties to reach agreement on the establishment of minimum services. In the absence of minimum services agreed between the parties, the Government sets the minimum services and therefore the Government has set the minimum services. When, at the end of the first hours of non-compliance with minimum services, it was found that there was non-compliance, the Government did what it was competing with, i.e., decreeing the civil requirement and adopted the necessary means to ensure that the civil requirement was effectively secured. We called the parties and there was a commitment by the unions to fulfil the minimum services — I hope so. We are in dialogue with the parties to see if the minimum services should be modelled according to the country's needs. And that is how we should do, but without promoting alarmism, because, by promoting alarmism, we promote an unjustified race to supply stations, accelerating pressure on their ability to ensure normal supply. So what needs to be done is what the government has done: to set minimum services, civil requirements, dialogue and ensure the means for everything essential to be kept in operation in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u91	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u92	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that there are issues directly related to the government — and today's debate is on social security. I believe that one of the issues that is on the table for claim cannot even be dealt with between the parties, because it has to do with the early retirement scheme, so I ask you if, on that point, the government has worked, talked, sat down, prepared something or not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u93	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u94	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, this is a conflict between private employers and their workers. What there must be is dialogue between the parties. Until yesterday there was not; yesterday, happily there was. We hope that the parties will have a good sense of understanding what is at stake in the Portuguese country and that they will be able to defend their respective and legitimate rights in a legal framework of normality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u95	Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, she continues to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u96	Mr. President, I note with concern that Mr. Prime Minister does not know all the outlines of the problem... [[PS protests.]] ...and that you don't even know that a party is also responsible for your government's treatment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, Prime Minister, in addition to the issues of minimum services and civil requirements, there is another issue that has to do with the operation of the security forces and the guarantee of the security forces that anyone who wants to work can work for. Can the Prime Minister assure us that the forces have acted in order to allow anyone who wanted to work and load tank trucks to do so? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u97	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u98	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, all that was requested from the security forces, including what was determined by the Government to ensure the transport which was necessary to ensure in a civil requisition framework that was not being met. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u99	Mrs. Christian Assumption, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u100	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, my question was not about the civil requirement, it was about those truck drivers who wanted to work, who wanted to supply their tankers and who could not do it because of the pressure of the other truck drivers who were on strike and on which was the operation of the security forces in this circumstance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u101	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u102	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, the security forces have acted in accordance with what is their legal competence, in a proportionate and appropriate way, to ensure the rights of all and to ensure the free movement and supply of all the trucks they intended to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u103	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u104	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is general theory. I advise you to report on what actually happened. Mr Prime Minister, in the resolution of the Council of Ministers, only minimum services are established for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, so I ask you: what about the rest of the country? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already answered, but I repeat: the minimum services have been issued in accordance with what they have been requested and, if necessary, will be extended, so that we are in dialogue with the parties, to ensure the minimum supply requirements throughout the country, in respect of Portuguese rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u107	Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, she continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are always running after damage. Mr. Prime Minister is not able to prevent the problem, he is not able to anticipate a conflict and now he is not able to understand that the country is not Lisbon and Porto and that there are many people throughout the country, at this time, very concerned and already without fuel. So, Prime Minister, what I would advise you is that you review your resolution of the Council of Ministers and think a little more than what is on the table. Mr. Prime Minister, I have also read nothing about food supplies and my question is whether or not that dimension is secure. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u109	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u110	Mr President, Madam Member, having no agreement between the parties, the Government may declare minimum services within the limits also provided for by the parties. However, we have already said that we will ensure everything necessary to ensure that essential services and needs are met. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u111	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u112	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, will you or will you not extend the minimum services to the rest of the country and will you or will you not guarantee food security? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u113	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the best view, this is the third time you ask the same question, to which I have already answered three times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u115	Mrs. Christian Assumption, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, because my opinion and the opinion of all Portuguese people who are at the moment restless... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u117	...is that your answer is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u119	Mr Prime Minister, I ask you another question: when are we in a position to guarantee normality? Can people be calm and know that they can go to work quietly? Can you be calm and know that you can make the visits and trips that you have scheduled for Easter weekend? Can they or can they not? This is what people want to know! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u120	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I can tell the Portuguese is that the Government will do everything to ensure that this conflict is overcome and, as long as it takes, that it is in strict compliance with the legality, which is what it is for us to do, ensuring respect for the rights of all, the fulfilment of the essential needs of the country and the essential rights of each Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u122	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u123	Mr President, Prime Minister, you cannot give a single concrete answer, but I am making it easier for you: who in your government is managing this crisis? Is he the Minister of Environment and Energy Transition? Is he the Minister of Labour? He's the Minister of Economics, who came to talk? Or is it the Minister of Infrastructure, who now appears to say that he will be the negotiator? Who's in charge? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u124	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u125	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I am responsible, through the competent ministers for each area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u126	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u127	Mr Prime Minister, I will turn to you directly for questions, since no one even understands who the other ministers are responsible for this area. So, if you're Mr. Prime Minister, well, it's you that we're always going to ask. Mr Prime Minister, let me turn to the issue that has brought us here today and which is very important, the issue of social security. We understand the position of the government, which is the same as in other areas: there is a problem and the increase in taxes tries to solve this problem. But I think the questions are deeper and have nothing to do with this study that has now appeared. Of course, the Economic and Social Council, with regard to the State budget, pointed out that it was inconceivable that, despite the clearly unfavorable demographic development for social security, the results of the projection exercise pointed to improvement. Moreover: the data that Mr. Prime Minister brings to us today — and it was good for people to know that — an improvement in productivity that puts us at the level of Germany. I think we have this ambition, we want and we should work on it, but unfortunately this is not our reality right now, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u129	I wanted to ask you a very clear question. What people need to know, surely, Mr. Prime Minister, when they are 20, 30, 40, 50 years old, is what they can count on to guide their lives and not to be trusting in a solution that, perhaps, will not appear or will not appear according to the generosity, desire and right of people. So my question is this: to a person who is 30 years old today, 40 or 50 years old, what does the Prime Minister answer, if that person asks you when to retire and how much will he need to reform? Is it the same or less than what you are receiving while you are in active life? How much will that person receive in his reform? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u130	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u131	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, you did not realize the essentials. What has improved the sustainability of social security is not the increase in taxes, it is the increase in employment. More and better employment, this has improved the sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I can assure the Portuguese is that, as long as this government exists and its policy is pursued, they can have sustained public and universal social security for the current generation of pensioners... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...and for all generations that are on the labour market today, to be discounted, for one day they are entitled to their pension. If, one day, the Member of Parliament forms a government there, unfortunately, I will not be able to guarantee anything to the Portuguese unless I fear the worst. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u132	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u133	Mr. Prime Minister, who is 40 years old today and retires with 65 or 66, how much will you receive from your pension? Will you receive 80 %, 85 %, 60 %, 65 % or less? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u134	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u135	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you should know, in order to strengthen everyone's confidence in the social security system, we have created a simulator that allows anyone who is 38, 40 or 45 years old to do their own simulation and to know what pension they are entitled to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u137	Mrs Assunción Cristas remains in the use of the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u138	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not difficult, therefore, to answer this question: for who is 40 years old today, what is the rate of substitution? Will you receive 65 % of your salary?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u139	What a fool! Are you just going to repeat the question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u140	Are you going to receive 70 % or 80 %? How much are you gonna get? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u141	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, people can even know what they will receive. The best way for you to know is by doing what you can also do: go to the social security simulator. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u143	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u144	Mr. Prime Minister, it is extraordinary how you are not able to give a single concrete answer. You only know about general theory, because you are unable to give a simple and concrete answer. [[PS Protests and PSD and CDS-PP counterprotests.]] Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister, I have to tell you that, in 2016, it was plummeted, in this House, a project of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u145	And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u146	... to create custom information. And it wasn't to go to the simulator, it was to receive at home a letter, an e-mail, saying exactly what you could count on. This project was plunged by the left majority, but then, then, passed. My question is this: when are we going to receive this information at home every year? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u147	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u148	Madam Member, I see that today our dialogue is more difficult than usual. [[PS laughter.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But, indeed, to the same question, I can only give the same answer. I'm sorry, but it's a matter of consistency, mr. Today, all Portuguese have access to a simulator where they can calculate at every moment the pension they will be entitled to on the date they plan to retire. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u149	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u150	Mr Prime Minister, you know what I think about your government: it's been a long time, which is evidence of every 15-year debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u152	... when he is unable to answer a single concrete question, which is of interest to people. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do you know why you don't want to answer this question? [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] The answer is very uncomfortable. The answer will expose what I said in the rostrum, because it will conclude that people will, in fact, receive less than they expect. But this must be absolutely clear and transparent. For what? So people can make their own choices. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u153	Are the choices of the RPPs (saving-reform plans)? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u154	At the same time as we presented this proposal... [[PS and BE protests.]] At the same time as we presented this proposal... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, because we have alternatives! Anyone who believes that there is only one socialist and left-wing governance is wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that there be the silence necessary for you to conclude. You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u156	Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you that, when we presented this proposal, we have presented the clear proposal that everyone receives information at home that allows you to plan your life and make your choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u157	This is a sponsored intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u158	Mr. Prime Minister, what we see, and we will have the opportunity to see for the week, is always the same, and Mr. Prime Minister has already said it in the rostrum: there is no problem, because there are always more taxes that can be channeled to this and other things. The maximum tax burden, Centeno supplanting Centeno—is this your brand, Prime Minister, is this the mark of your governance. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u160	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, you use many slogans, but you say little of what has to do with the lives of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u162	And the honourable Member does this, because she wants to hide what she later lets her escape, when she "runs her mouth to the truth". [[CDS-PP protests.]] What did you mean by "choices"? What the honourable Member wants to promote, as the right always intends to promote, is mistrust of public and universal social security, to promote private social security and enrich private financial groups, undermining the security of the future of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u163	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u164	Mrs Deputies devalues the social security simulator because she knows that 2 million Portuguese have already used it and because she knows that the coverage rate for those who are 40 years old is 70 % compared to the last maturity. The honourable Member also knows that, with this position here, which means, in essence, that it is simply the following: « create the panic, give us an opportunity to privatize social security». That is indeed his dream. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u165	Keep ignorance, you want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u166	Let me finish by going back to the beginning. What is recorded, Mrs Member, is that you have become, strangely, the spokesperson for any social conflict that exists in Portugal: if nurses strike,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u167	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u168	... Mrs. Deputy is a spokesman for strikers; if there is a threat of yellow vests, Mrs. Deputy promotes yellow vests;... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... if there is a strike in the distribution of fuels, Mrs Deputy promotes the strike in the distribution of fuels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u169	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u170	Mrs. Member, I know that everything serves you for this fiction, that all the evils of the world have begun with this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u171	Mr. Prime Minister, you have already greatly exceeded your time, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u172	...and they will only end when this government ceases to function.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u173	Precisely!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u174	For, fortunately, the Portuguese have good memories and know that, with this government, they are much better than they were when you did the liberalisation of the eucalyptus or the liberalisation of the income market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u175	You now have the floor to put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u176	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all a record, because tax demagogy has been a lot,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u177	Demagogy, no! The taxes are that they have been many!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u178	...as, in fact, it was noted, in the bloom that was made here, by Mrs. Christian Assumption. IRS payments (tax on income of natural persons) by workers and pensioners are under way. It is another time to verify the result of the creation of the two new steps, in the State Budget for 2018, which translates into a reduction in the tax paid by workers and in the opposite direction to the one that PSD and CDS imposed on the Portuguese people in recent years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u180	In fact, with the contribution that the CFP is proud to have made, it was possible to introduce criteria of greater fiscal justice, relieving taxation on labour income. We know it would have been possible to go further. The government was not available to follow the CFP, but, as we have said, the CFP will not give up any more fiscal justice. Mr Prime Minister, on the subject that has brought us, at the time that social security is going through a financial situation that is the best of the last 20 years, we are again confronted with the appetites of the large economic groups. A few weeks ago it was the decision of the European Parliament to create a European pension fund, which PS, PSD and CDS voted in favour. A few days ago it was a study commissioned by an economic group, which concluded with the threat of failure of social security and proposals to increase the retirement age for 69 years. It is not worth quoting Cavaco Silva, because this, then, is the age of reform until the 80s and, if possible, work until death. [[PS laughter.]] We know that the objective of these maneuvers is to create distrust of social security to increase the business of private pension funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u182	We speak so much in sustainability, but it is worth remembering that, at the peak of the crisis of capitalism, millions of human beings have been left without anything, in misery, precisely because of the ruin of pension funds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u184	...with the consequences that this has had for so many people. [[PCP applause.]] What they claim is falsehoods, which are denied by the reality of increasing the revenue of contributions. And it is worth remembering that this good financial situation was achieved in a framework where, by action and initiative of the CFP, pensions, family allowances, support for the unemployed and other social benefits were increased. This confirms that, as the CFP has always stated, the financial sustainability of social security is not guaranteed by cuts in pensions or by increasing the retirement age, but rather by increasing employment, increasing wages and combating precariousness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u185	It is necessary to go further, not only in these measures, but also in the diversification of sources of funding, particularly with the proposal put forward by the CFP for the application of net added value, created by the companies, proposed, which was not accompanied by the Socialist Party, as has happened with the proposals we brought here for the reduction of the retirement age and the end of the sustainability factor, which continue to impose heavy penalties. Mr Prime Minister, the path of progress is not, as I said, that of privatization, that of defending public, universal and solidarity social security, the increase in pensions and the reduction in retirement age. This must be the way of social security, in fact, solidarity and seeking to gather the various generations. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u186	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, that is true. What the PSD and CDS say about the social security system, besides seeking to instill distrust, to promote private social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u188	Have shame! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u189	...is based on a basic ignorance of reality. First of all, the Portuguese will pay less than EUR 1000 million of IRS this year for what they paid in 2015. This significant reduction in the contribution to the IRS means that we are effectively disaggravating fiscally those who deserve to be disaggravated. It is extraordinary that anyone who talks about taxes is the same as those who have as their main economic adviser someone who presents a book where he proposes, in relation to IRS, nothing less than that of having a minimum collection for those who have the lowest incomes of Portuguese society, completely reverse the principle of tax capacity, according to which he must pay more those who have more and less those who have less. It is also proposed in the same study that the reduction in VAT (tax on value added) should be eliminated in the restoration, ignoring the brutal impact that the reduction in VAT on restoration had on the dynamization of the labour market and the effective increase in the revenue of social security contributions, not by an increase in the rates of contribution but by an increase in employment. In fact, the key to sustainability is more and better employment, more decent employment and fairer wages. This must be the way forward. That is why we are today, indeed, in the best social security situation in recent decades. The transfers to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security from 2016 to date represent 22 %; we have increased the period in which it is not necessary to use the Financial Stabilisation Fund ; last year, social security did not even lack transfers from the State budget to its own budget so that it could work; in the first three months of this year we had an increase of 8 % of the social security contribution revenue for the first quarter of last year. What was the result of this 8 % increase? This is due to the increase in employment and salaries. This means that we are contributing to a more stable, more sustainable social security, and this is the way we should pursue. Is it necessary to study all scenarios? Of course, because it is necessary not to ignore the challenges ahead and it is necessary to study the measures we must take in order to improve our demographic framework. We need to study the ways in which we can diversify sources of social security financing. It is necessary to study, above all, in a framework of increasing business automation, proposals such as those presented by the CFP on the contribution based on net added value. It is necessary to study and think. The solution is not immobilism and the absence of reformist stance, but it is important that all reformist measures be taken on the basis of a great clarity of values. And the first essential value is that the social security we want is a public and universal social security, which does not question the rights acquired, which does not question the future of the new generations, ensuring their sustainability, so that the contribution they make today will have the guarantee of a future benefit. It is this strengthening of security that we must continue to do, promoting economic policies for growth, employment and sound budgetary management, so that we can continue to strengthen our social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u190	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u191	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was possible to advance the defence, replacement and conquest of rights, but the situation remains marked by low wages and labour legislation contrary to the interests of workers. The CFP advocates the valorization of work and workers with the elimination of serious standards of labour law, the realization of the general increase in wages, including the national minimum wage, the counting of all working time for progressions and career development as an essential strategy for improving living conditions, the future increase in retirement pensions and the encouragement of economic activity and national production. These are the demands of workers of the most diverse sectors in their struggles, and which in front of the Assembly of the Republic, last Thursday, were reaffirmed, at the national concentration promoted by the CGTP-IN. But the PS government, converging with the PSD and the CDS, is seeking to maintain the serious standards of labour law and, in several cases, to make it worse. Mr Prime Minister, do you not think it is time, too, to express the value of work and workers? Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on the ongoing strike in the road sector and being necessary for the Government's intervention in the resolution of the conflict, we want to warn those who, on the pretext of this strike and the way they are taking, take advantage of to create an alarm and question the constitutional right to strike. It is in this sense that the Government is called upon to intervene, seeking the solution to the conflict, because there are still objective reasons for many motorists to attend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u192	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u193	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, were the objectives of the Government's Programme to boost social dialogue and promote social dialogue. Fortunately, we have noted that over the last three years there has been significant progress in this area. In 2016, 146 collective conventions were published, in 2017, 208 were published, in 2018, 220 were published, and we hope that it will be possible to continue promoting social dialogue and collective bargaining to extend the space of the collective convention. That is why, too, we have speeded up the extension doors, which now cover more workers than before. This is a clear need for our labour market and we must continue to encourage it. As far as the current strike is concerned, the government has done its best. First of all, being a private sector strike, it sought that the parties should have an understanding of the minimum services; there was no such understanding, the Government fixed the minimum services; there was no compliance with the minimum services, the Government made the civil requirement, in order to ensure the satisfaction of the essential services needs and the basic needs of all Portuguese. We are currently in dialogue with the parties. Last night, it was possible to obtain from the unions the guarantee that minimum services will be respected. We are today in dialogue with the parties to be able, if necessary, to extend the minimum services throughout the national territory, so that supply needs are not only met in Lisbon and Porto, but can be fully met in any part of the national territory. We believe that the best way to conduct this process is not to dramatize, but to give confidence and tranquillity to the Portuguese; the worst way to resolve this conflict is by radicalizing the positions between the parties or creating a dramatism that precipitates a race to supply and creates an effective problem that we must avoid at all costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u194	You've outlived the time you had, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u195	Therefore, with calmness and determination, we will manage this conflict among private people, but that it is up to us, of course, to seek to manage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u196	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u197	... contributing to the good of the country and the general tranquility of the Portuguese. This is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u198	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u199	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a word briefly on this issue of fuel, to say that, regardless of the response the Government is giving — and we also believe that alarmisms should not be created — this question will only nude two situations which I would like to point out. One is that there are matters of workers' rights to be considered and the government must intervene on them, certainly benefiting multiple sectors; another, and, now, in an environmental perspective reading this issue, is that of the enormous dependence we still have on fossil fuels at the level of mobility. Mr. Prime Minister, on social security there is a challenge that was put here by the PSD, to which The Greens would like to respond directly. This challenge was what we gathered together to find solutions to social security. The Greens respond to this challenge: no! With the PSD and the CDS there is no possible understanding that it manages social security justice, because, as has already been well remembered during the debate, they propose a cut of EUR 600 million. Its solution is, permanently, that of the court, that of the court in everything that has to do with the concrete life of people. In addition, both have entered this game of the great alarmism of the unsustainability of social security, to justify several things that only harm people: the increase in retirement age, the cuts in pensions and, of course, the privatization of social security or at least the ability to raise private pension funds, as the CDS has done recently, speaking of its alternatives, and that is its true alternative. The question that needs to be addressed to the Prime Minister is whether it is actually available to ensure public social security, solidarity—which is a word that Mr. Prime Minister never uses—and universally, betting on more employment, less precariousness, less unemployment and better wages. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u200	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these three years have answered your question because it was even with an economic policy that promoted more and better employment that we have strengthened the sustainability of social security. And solidarity, more than words, are acts. When we ensure that, for three consecutive years, we update pensions, when, in two consecutive years, we ensure extraordinary increases, when we seek to create better conditions for long-term contributory careers, they can access the pension, yes, this is called solidarity. And we did this at the same time as we ensured the strengthening of other social benefits, from the family allowance to the solidarity supplement for the elderly, at the same time we extended the social measures in this country, from the freeness of school textbooks to the new model of social pass, which greatly contributed to the improvement of the income available to families. in the same way, over these four years, we had an increase of 20 % of the national minimum wage and Portuguese income has increased significantly. When, this year, between January and March, we had an increase of 8 % — 8 %! — contributions to social security, for the first quarter of last year, was not only because there is more employment, it was also because there is better employment and because employment is, fortunately, getting better paid. This is how we ensure the lasting sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u202	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u203	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, yes, it is true, but what Mr. Prime Minister has to take into account is that this legislature has been pulled from the left. And what is essential to realize is also the genuineness of the PS, because this legislature had the mark on the left and we passed the entire legislation to pull the PS, of course, also in matters of social security. There is one question I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, who is attached to the intensive and superintensive olive pest in our Alentejo. Mr Prime Minister, we have a very serious problem with a monoculture which is spreading, with serious environmental problems, particularly at the level of water expenditure, but also with excessive use of pesticides, with contamination of water and soils. Mr Prime Minister, is it essential to ask you this question: is the PS Government prepared to work to prevent this disarray of intensive and superintensive olive extension and, moreover, of other cultures, such as peanuts, which are in fact destroying the southern part of the country? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u204	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u205	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the studies we have do not confirm these consequences of intensive olives. Therefore, we have asked for a new, more in-depth study to measure its consequences, and from it will withdraw the correct ions. I share with you the positive balance we make of this legislation. I wouldn't say someone pulled someone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u206	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u207	I think it would be unfair for me to say that the Government has brought the honourable Member up to accept prudent budgetary management which has allowed us to have the lowest deficit in democracy and a sustained reduction in our public debt. The reading I make of this legislation is that together the PS, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party have been able to harmonise their policies so that at the same time we have more growth, better employment, less inequality and certain accounts. I think it was a virtuous combination, it has been a virtuous combination, which only deserves good continuity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am reminded that today you have not asked me again, as you did in the last two debates, what the Government has decided on the Fridan dam. She hoped that the honourable Member would be satisfied with the decision of the Government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...but, Mrs. Member, I also know that more important than words is what goes in your heart... [[PS laughter.]] ...and I'm sure you're happy and satisfied with the decision taken by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u208	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u209	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, do you know what the projects of Montijo airport, the dredgings of Sado and the exploitation of lithium in Montalegre have in common? In all of them, the Government signed works contracts or concession contracts before having a positive environmental impact assessment. There is a pattern of government action here: first, it signs contracts, publicly announcing economic and political advantages, and then adapting environmental impact studies with the adoption of insufficient mitigation measures, taking into account that everything is all right. There it is, it continues to dominate the short-term economy model to the detriment of the strategic vision of responsible management of the common good. About Montijo airport we know that the environmental impact study has already been completed and delivered to the government and that very negative impacts are still being identified for the lives of people in the region and for the bird population who inhabit the Tejo estuary. We begin to understand why the government does not want to carry out a strategic environmental assessment, which, we insist, is mandatory. This would provide extensive information on long-term impacts across the surrounding region at the airport. Mr. Prime Minister has proved irreducible, saying that Montijo airport is to advance and that there is no plan B. But will you continue to insist on a work that degrades people's health and destroys the avifauna of the Tejo estuary, an ecosystem already quite fragile? Oh, my God! Is Mr. Prime Minister available to reconsider the location of the airport, in particular to analyze the Beja solution, thus valuing the interior and its populations?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u210	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u211	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, there is an effective need for the country, many years ago recognized and which, finally, today, no one questions: the country needs a new international airport. In the time we have today to meet the needs, the best possible solution is to combine the optimization of the use of Portela airport with a second airport in Montijo. What was signed was this, developing the necessary studies, including the environmental impact study. The environmental impact study was presented, is being analyzed by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and this moment is not that of the political decision, it is that of the technical evaluation. As we have always said, there is indeed no plan B, alternative to the solution that is the best. And Beja clearly is not the alternative to this solution. What we say, too, is that what results from the environmental assessment must be respected: if there are modification measures, they will be adopted; if they are not necessary, they will not be adopted; if they are down, they cannot continue with this solution. But we will all have to be aware that, not continuing with this solution, the only plan B is not a plan B, it is a plan A, and it corresponds to returning 10 years ago and making the airport, which was then decided not to do, in Alcochete. This is the picture, but at the moment, we look forward to what APA has to say about the assessment that makes of the environmental impact study that was presented last Friday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u212	You now have the floor to ask questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, before a more comprehensive intervention by the Socialist Party, will be worth deepening the question of the functioning of social security. Yes, we assume that there are some delays in the allocation of the first benefit, but it is obviously important to understand why. In the former Government there was a deliberate de-investment in the already in progress social security computer system, which was preparing for the complete digitisation of contribution careers. In addition, the calculation of a pension application may lead to the consultation of various and scattered physical files, causing obvious delays, if it is intended to ensure strict calculation of the amount, and that the former Government has reduced by 30 % the effects of the National Pension Centre ( NCP ). In the meantime, we have recovered part,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u214	Now, now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u215	... but it is necessary to point out that in 2018 more than 50 000 applications were accounted for than in 2014 almost 40 %. So what is being done is to resume the computerization where the right cut it. Examples: new pension simulator, development of new features, redesign of processes, modification of procedures and renewal of the computer park. And, of course, we are also working on strengthening human resources through internal competitive procedures, but also in an external competition, which means more than 70 % of employees for the CNP. So I ask you, Prime Minister : do you think that the impoverishment of the public pension system, carried out by the previous government, involved an ideological attack on public social security? And if we reverse this path, will the measures implemented be sufficient? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u216	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u217	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have assumed, the delay in the settlement of the first pension benefit is an effective problem. First of all, it results in an increase in the number of applications, combined with a breakdown for four years of the number of effectives,... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] ... that it was only not greater — it should be remembered — because, at the beginning of this government, we withdrew from the mobility of hundreds of social security workers that the previous government had put out of the social security frameworks and under the mobility regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A set of measures has already been adopted: three new centres in Braga, Leiria and Aveiro and in the next month a new one in Viseu have already been strengthened through the provision of services, internal mobility and PREVPAP(Special Programme for the Regularization of Pre-Trial Links in the Public Administration ) in more than 160, human resources for social security ; at this moment the hiring of more than 200 social security effectives is in external competition; however, administrative simplification measures and also amending measures have been adopted. Because of this, as I have already had the opportunity to say here once, the forecast we have is that by the end of this semester we can have the situation regularized. And the truth is, if we compare the number of processes treated in the first quarter of this year with the number of processes dispatched in the first quarter of last year, we have already had an improvement of 30%. We are well aware of the anguish that this constitutes for people. Even last Sunday, in a supermarket, I was asked by a lady who came to draw attention to her own problem. We are aware of this, Mr Social Security Minister is well aware of this and has taken the necessary measures. So we have to go on... [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] ... and we are also considering new measures, including considering the possibility of a provisional settlement in respect of all pensions that are treated under the simulator, in order to ensure that people receive an immediate pension, without prejudice to future correctness that is necessary. We are seeking to find these measures and to respond urgently to a problem we feel, because we are aware of the gravity it has for thousands of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u218	You have the floor, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, in recent weeks, as it has also been seen today, the parties on the right have definitely entered the mode of electoral campaign. On the European elections they have not said much, which is proportional to little or nothing they have done in Europe. In fact, what they did prefer to hide. It is that at times when their obligations in the European Parliament were not lacking, right-wing candidates there were defending maximum strength in sanctions against Portugal, when we began to increase wages and pensions. They want the country to forget, but we remember! [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we move on to national policy, the problem is another. Here, PSD and CDS are already saying some things, but we realize why the people say some silence is really gold. It is that whenever they speak, they undo the illusion that they have learned from mistakes and show that the supposed new ideas do not pass from a gray recollection of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has been so in all areas — it is Rui Rio who says so! — from criticism of social passes, which alleviate the pocket of Portuguese people who use public transport that you tried to privatize and dismantle, to the old dream of privatization of the General Deposit Box. Nothing escapes and, when Rui Rio does not speak, they speak for him, as in that draft of electoral pre-program, where this PSD says what comes and this is too much like the other PSD, which aspires to the PSD that came: putting the poorest people to pay IRS, increasing the working hours of public employees and aggravating the VAT of restoration, whose reduction was essential to dynamize economic activity and create thousands of jobs. That's just the beginning, but you can already see a PSD looking at the rearview. This is a party that is afraid of wanting to go back, in a country that has gone forward with socialist governance, something that they do not forgive and therefore want to return to power, to destroy, privatize, cut and dismantle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is precisely what they want to do in social security and hence the importance of the topic of this fortnightly debate. An alarmist study of a known foundation served, in recent days, to extend the right-wing fear campaign, waving the phantom of the collapse of public social security and the increase of the retirement age, which, from the last time I saw, was already in 80 years and seems to continue to increase. You know that's a lie, but that doesn't matter, because what you really want is to scare the Portuguese, the younger and the older, to create the broth that's favorable to the delivery of your pensions to private funds. That's what you want! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the PSD has already called for extensive reforms, which, as we know, are your password and password for cuts and privatisations. And Deputy Assumption Cristas called for creative solutions, such as those presented by the CDS in this matter. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Assumption Cristas, your creative solutions are there, in fact, I remember several of your creative solutions that have been plunged by the Constitutional Court, and I remember, in particular, that of 2012, so creative but so creative, that three weeks ago became a retroactive unconstitutionality — a novelty that now obliges the pension of 100 000 pensioners to be reviewed during the last 6 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this creativity, Mrs Assumption Cristas, who spoke much, did not speak. They had no time to speak, but your silence does not make you forget how they never cared about the sustainability of social security and how, in this area and in others, they ruled systematically against the Constitution. Creativity of these, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is dispensing at all! The Socialist Party believes that it is not possible to solve the financial or social sustainability of social security if there are no decent jobs and wages, because without them there are no contributions and deficits arise. Labour instability also prevents many Portuguese people from having children, something essential, along with immigration, to reverse our demographic trend. That is why the main enemies of the sustainability of our public social security are those who advocate labour flexibility, those who have been against the regularization of precariouss, those who have opposed the increase in wages, those who refuse to diversify the sources of social security and those who have voted against the increases in pensions. We don't need to go too far to know who they are: they sit on the PSD and CDS benches, in this House! [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: PSD and CDS have shaken the confidence of Portuguese in our public social security system when they proposed a cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions and when they mentioned, in their electoral programme, that they would privatize part of the Portuguese discounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u220	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u221	Therefore, the next time Members of the Christian Assumption go to a company to talk to workers, criticize this government, as it did even last week, saying that income is low, you can take advantage and apologize to them for voting in this House against increases in wages and pensions, adding to its propaganda news as one I have here, of the Sun, which proves that the CDS, like the PSD, also wanted to cut pensions in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not throw unfounded fears! Stop with the fear campaign! They're going to say that, eyes on the eyes, to the Portuguese! They assume as the vanguard of private interests in the pension market and can be sure that the Socialist Party will be here to defend the general interest of all workers, of all pensioners and of all pensioners. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u222	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u223	I fear - we have demonstrated this throughout the legislature and we can measure the success of this policy with the results we have in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, the ultimate guarantor of pension payments, which for the first time exceeded the EUR 18 billion, reaching almost 9 % of GDP. We thus demonstrate that there are no inevitability when we discuss the pension model. There are political options, options that do not ignore dynamics of aging, but options that some reject because they are obsessed with mandatory discounts for private pension funds. And that is why we are talking about options, Prime Minister, that we ask you to leave a message of confidence to whom you hear us, in the face of this campaign of fear and fear on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u224	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u225	I will finish, Mr. President. A message of confidence, Prime Minister, to ensure that the PS will not cut off pensions, that there are no plans for increasing the retirement age, that there will be no privatization of social security and, finally, to ensure that our system is in good health, thanks to the reversal of austerity, with which more jobs, better wages and good accounts have been achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u226	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u227	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, at the end of this debate, I would like to point out two aspects which I think are important. To begin with, I want to leave a message of tranquillity and serenity to the Portuguese. In 2007 Portugal made one of the most advanced social security reforms in Europe. This is how it is signalled by the European Union, by the OECD, finally by all international institutions. This is a reform that ensures the adaptation of the age of reform to the increase in life expectancy, or the adaptation to the dynamics of the economy of updating the amount of pensions. With this scheme, it was proved that, under conditions of sound budgetary management and economic policy, sustainability is strengthened. The State Budget report for 2015 provided that we could enter into a situation of accumulation of chronic deficits in social security. What the economic policy we have followed and, in particular, the creation of jobs that has existed have allowed, on the contrary, deficits have been successively lower. And in 2018, there was even no need for a transfer from the State budget to the social security budget, on the contrary, in 2018, the surplus generated by the social security budget enabled the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security to be strengthened by EUR 1500 million. This means not only that we have conditions in the budgetary management of each year to continue to ensure the sustainability of social security, but also that we have come to build up and strengthen reserves for a more negative demographic or economic framework that may exist in the future. And it also means that it is not betting on private systems of uncertain solvency, which have destroyed millions of savings of millions of people in tens of countries in this world outside, but it is trusting in public and universal social security that we will all be able not only to be sure of the security of pensions that are being paid today, but also to ensure that the pensions for which we discount or that our children now start to discount will also exist in their future. That's the message we have to leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, we have to say that no one can ignore that economic cycles are not always identical. It is therefore necessary to have reservations and to strengthen reservations on « sundays ». That's what we've been doing. We know that there is a demographic challenge, but we also know that we must have measures to reverse this demographic challenge, not only because of social security, but also because of the country's very identity and survival. This means that we continue to bet on policies that create better opportunities for young generations in life: job security, access to better education and access to affordable housing. These are these new policies, which we are implementing and which are beginning to bear fruit, which give confidence to the next generations in order to be able to make the decision to self-sufficient and build up their families. This ensures that your family will have better support, more family allowance, school textbooks and a universal school network for all children from three years of age. This is the trajectory that we must pursue and not listen to the'serious corners' on the right, that the only thing we want to instigate is fear, panic, so that people do not trust social security and, on the contrary, turn to the Russian role played by private social security systems. No, we want to guarantee all Portuguese security in your social security system! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, this right-wing strategy is basically only a new addition to what it has done since the beginning of the legislature. First of all, he was the daddy of the economic crisis, when they said that increasing the national minimum wage would destroy companies and generate unemployment. However, the increase in national minimum wage did not destroy companies or generate unemployment, but it did contribute to creating confidence in the economy, more investment and more employment. Then came the threat that we would have a new financial crisis and that the devil would come there. After all, the devil has not come, we have the lowest deficit in our democracy and we are in a sustainable path of reducing public debt. Finally, an appeal was made to the European Commission to come to Portugal to prevent the political change this Parliament decided to make in November 2015. And it was not only Mr Weber who called for sanctions, because there were Portuguese Members who in the European Parliament raised their voice by asking the European Commission to come to Portugal to prevent the political change that was under way and who had been sovereignly and democratically decided by this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why now, after all this fails, they wager in the dramatization of social conflict, in the creation of an artificial crissification climate, which no longer spares even the President of the Republic, because the great fury of the inorganic right, not being represented by a weak PSD or a weak CDS, leads her to manifest inorganic. And it turns to everything, to everything, until the remobilisation of Prof. Cavaco Silva, who, after so many years having repeated that he had never been a professional politician, now chose to use his retirement time to professionally dedicate himself to politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let's keep it serene.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u228	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u229	The use of populism and fake news by the PSD and the CDS only demonstrates its fragility, lack of arguments and absence of a positive alternative for the country. They actually have an alternative, but it is not an alternative of progress, it is an alternative of retrogression, impoverishment, weakening of the economy and the destruction of our social model. That is the alternative they have and that is the alternative we have to fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u230	Mr Peixoto has the floor now to exercise the right to defend personal honor, beginning with a quick synthesis, as the Rules of Procedure command, but without that disgruntling in the time available, why he considered himself offended in his personal honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u231	Mr President, I intend to defend my personal honour, because Mr Prime Minister, responding to the parliamentary leader of my bench, Mr Fernando Negrão, speaking of me, said that he should be ashamed to sit next to someone who treated the elderly as "grey plague". That's why I want to defend my honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u232	All right, it's explained. You now have 2 minutes to exercise the right to defend your personal honor, Mr. Carlos Peixato.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u233	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who comes to Parliament to offend, freely and lightly, a Member is a Prime Minister who has nothing to say to the country. [[PSD applause.]] A Prime Minister who leads a government of families, where promiscuity and rot prevails,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... a Prime Minister leading a party that led Portugal to bankruptcy,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u234	...and a Prime Minister who has twice been Minister of the former Prime Minister José Socrates has no moral authority to get here and take care of whoever he is. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u235	What about the ‘grey plague’? Oh, my God! Did you say or didn't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u236	Mr. Prime Minister came here to talk about what you don't know. You said what you didn't read! You lied, you completely perverted the truth. Mr. Prime Minister has no notion of what he said. [[PS protests.]] And Mr. Prime Minister has an added responsibility, because he is sitting in a place that requires level and elevation, which is what Mr. Prime Minister here has not shown. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u237	I'm asking the ladies. Members to keep quiet, so that the defence of personal honor can be realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u238	You know, Mr. Prime Minister, to defend and protect the elderly, you don't need to take anyone away. You just need to do something else. You need to make sure you know what? You need to do an act of contrition,... [[PS protests.]] ... you need to put your hand on your conscience and recognize here that it was the Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2010, frozen pensions. And you have to demonstrate here your inability because you have not yet revealed the status of the informal caregiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u239	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u240	He also needs to recognize here that he left the National Health Service to the greatest extent that there is memory, harming the elderly. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u241	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u242	I end by saying this: what Mr. Prime Minister said is a lie. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u243	What about the ‘grey plague’? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u244	But I want to tell you more:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u245	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u246	Mr. President, there is a huge noise in the Chamber. I'm going to finish, but please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to let me finish. Mr. Prime Minister, I just want to tell you this: I am sure Mr. Fernando Negrão is not ashamed to sit next to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u247	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u248	But I am no longer sure that your predecessor, Antonio José Seguro, and many of the people who have in government are not ashamed to sit next to you. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u249	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u250	To give explanations, if you wish, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u251	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, as I had imagined, the honourable Member did not ask the floor to defend his honour, but to insult me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u252	Don't! But I deserved it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u253	I can leave you alone, because you don't insult anyone you want, and you don't insult me, tell me what you're saying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's get to the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u254	Read, read the text!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u255	Mr Deputy, on 10 January 2013 published an article in the newspaper i with the title A Portugal of white hair. After finishing the first paragraph,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u256	Read it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u257	You have to read everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u258	I would ask that there be sufficient silence for Mr. Prime Minister to be able to give the explanations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u259	As I said in the first paragraph, and referring to an elderly and dependent population whose average age may be around 50 years old, you wrote the following sentence:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u260	Read it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u261	As he said, he wrote the following sentence:... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u262	You have to read everything! That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u263	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, the Member was not interrupted by Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking the benches to keep quiet. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u264	Sir, what's not serious is not to let me read what you know I'm going to read. As he said in that article, the honourable Member concludes: “Our homeland has been contaminated with the already known ‘ grey pestilence ’”. This is what you wrote in January 2013. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u265	Read the rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u266	At the end of this incident, we shall proceed to the vote. I would like to ask the services that operate the electronic system and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register, so that we can check the quorum. Meanwhile, Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u267	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered and have been admitted to draft resolution No 2120 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers from 17 April to 14 May 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in a position to check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 206 meetings, to which six Members who have not been able to make their electronic register are added. Deputies Rubina Berardo, Carlos Peixoto and Hugo Soares, PSD, Luís Graça, PS, Jorge Falcato, BE, and João Rebelo, CDS-PP, performing 212 Members and Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with Vote No 811 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Unfortunately the death of Ondina Maria Farias Veloso, who Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On April 12, 2019, Ondina Maria Farias Veloso died, singer and composer, born June 18, 1956, in Carregal do Sal, who adopted the name Dina as an artistic name. It will surely remain in the memory of the Portuguese their Love of Freshwater, the song that he composed and represented us at the Eurovision Song Festival in 1992. But it would be a huge injustice to reduce Dina's talent and career to this iconic song as if she had started and finished the authentic, genuine expression and in many precursor cases of Dina. His first album, Dinamite, released in 1982, after success There is Always Music Between Us and his debut at the RTP Festival of the Song in 1980, is today celebrated by the new generation of Portuguese music as one of the most innovative albums of the 1980s : an album that waited several decades to be celebrated and recognized and that projects the talent of Dina much beyond the songs that, with joy and sweetness, led to the festivals of the song in which he participated. throughout his more than 30 years of career, with several discs on his behalf and many other compositions for other artists, Dina was characterized by seriousness, discretion, spontaneity and courage, not masking herself, trying to pass through who was not or singing styles that were not his. In the 1990s, he played and played the anthem of the CDS — For the voice of Portugal to be greater, with the letter of Rosa Lobato Faria — and that of Popular Youth. in Portugal different from today, the courage of Dina, who assumed himself as a humanist, multiplies the admiration that is due her. At the end of his career, the new generation of Portuguese music, represented by names such as Ana Bacalhau, B Fachada, Best Youth, Márcia and Samuel Uria, gave him tribute, in a concert that became a party and in a feast that became a tribute and thanks, somehow compensating the unjust indifference with which he was sometimes received. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to the family and friends of Dina. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u270	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We passed to Vote No 812 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD members ) — Despite the death of Maria Alberta Menéres, who will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « This week, at 88 years of age, Maria Alberta Menéres, a teacher and writer, died one of the researchers of child and youth literature in Portugal. Born in Vila Nova de Gaia, on August 25, 1930, he graduated in Historical-Philosophic Sciences from the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, later taught in Technical, Preparatory and Secondary Education in the disciplines of Portuguese Language and History ( 1965 to 1973 ). He organized the Antologia da Poesia Moderna Portuguesa ( 1940 / 1967 ) in 1976 and, two years later, the New Antologia da Moderna Poesia Portuguesa, two volumes, in partnership with the poet Ernesto Manuel de Melo and Castro. From 1974 to 1986, she was director of the Department of Child and Youth Programs of RTP, and was the author and producer of numerous television programs for children and young people. this year, it also created the concept of the Magic Pirilampo, a campaign of solidarity that still remains today. She was an adviser to the Ombudsman from 1993 to 1998 and was responsible for the first support lines for children and elderly people in Portugal. He made translations, adaptations, dozens of plays, in addition to a solid work of adult poetry, with 15 books published. Indissociable name of literature for the younger, Maria Alberta Menéres published more than one hundred children's and young books, of which titles such as Conversations with verses stand out, The poet is made at the age of 10 or the most prominent Ulisses, which already has 45 editions and more than 1 million copies sold. In 1986, he received the Grand Gulbenkian Literacy Award for Children and in 2010 he was thanked with the Order of Civil Merit, in the Degree of Commander. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the memory and legacy of Maria Alberta Menéres, expressing to his family and friends his most sorry for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u272	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the two votes that we have just adopted, we are going to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, the vote of the third regret vote that was scheduled for today was postponed at the request of the CDS-PP bench, which had proposed it. We continue with the vote on vote No 813 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Of solidarity with Palestinian political prisoners in the Israeli chains. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member João Soares.]] Let us now vote vote No 815 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern for the intention declared by the Prime Minister of Israel to pursue illegal occupations in the West Bank. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the PS Member João Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u273	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u274	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u275	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u276	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u277	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u278	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u279	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group will also deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u280	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 816 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PSD, PS and CDS-PP members ) — Of solidarity for the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 2106 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Naples. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2120 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers from 17 April to 14 May. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will now vote together on requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, asking the Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees Committee for a 60-day period of the following bills: No 1147 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, creating restrictions on the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment in domestic violence cases and raising the criminal frame of this crime; paragraph 1148 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventing the refusal of testimony by the victim of domestic violence and prohibiting the provisional suspension of proceedings for domestic violence; paragraph 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution; paragraph 1150 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), ensuring compulsory training for judges in domestic violence, No 1151 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims, No 1111/ XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of persecution, allowing the application of the preventive measure to prohibit contact with the victim; paragraph 1113 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Determines greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence crimes; No 1152 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen legal mechanisms for the protection of victims of violence; No 1155 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recasts crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code under the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measure to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and prosecution ( stalking ) ; No 1165 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the area of gender equality and domestic violence ( third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ) ; No 1166 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threat and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ) ; No 1178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of the public crime of the crime of persecution, verified certain aggravating circumstances, as well as the possibility of the application of preventive measures ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Penal Code and the thirty-first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; a ( PCP ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the imposition of conduct or for the prohibition of contact where there is strong evidence of the practice of criminal prosecution ( makes the thirty-ninth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) ; points 1105 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — It enables the application of the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution ( the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; and paragraph 1183 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects children who witness crimes of domestic violence and makes it compulsory to collect statements for future memory during the investigation ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of their victims ). [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2045 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote reciprocal protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom and of British citizens in Portugal within the framework of the future bilateral relationship. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u281	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u282	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u283	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u284	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 2115 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the Investment and Real Estate Corporations Regime ( SIGI ) [ Parliamentary Assessment No 122 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2117 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the Investment and Real Estate Corporations Regime ( SIGI ) [ Parliamentary Assessment No 120 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ]. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2119 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the Investment and Real Estate Corporations Regime ( SIGI ) [ Parliamentary Assessments No 120 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 122 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 2039 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency climate change fund. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 944 / XIII / 3. a (Citizens' Legislative Initiative) — Full consideration of the teaching time provided during the pre-2018 accounting suspensions for the purposes of progression and remunerative valuation. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u285	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u286	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u287	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u288	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u289	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u290	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Ana Mesquita, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u291	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u292	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 1161 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take the lead in reviewing the Albufeira Convention. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall now vote, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, relating to draft resolutions Nos 909/ XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — Review of the Albufeira Convention, 1154 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends the urgent review of the Albufeira Convention and 1165 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government review the proceedings of the Albufeira Convention. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We also have to vote on an opinion from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will be in favour of.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the County of Madeira, Central Criminal Court of Funchal - Juiz 2, Case No 854 / 10.2TAFUN, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, issued an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene in the field of these cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-17.u294	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 24, and will have on the agenda a debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. I wish everyone a happy Passover. Until the week. [[It was 12 hours and 24 minutes.]]
