ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's agenda, Secretary Pedro Alves will give us an opinion which has to be voted on immediately and some file which has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Bureau gave an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to the resumption of office in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ( c ). the Statute of the Deputies, of Deputies Maria Manuel Leitão Marques ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of Viseu, ending Lúcia Fernanda Ferreira Araújo Silva, with effect from 18 February 2019, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption and termination of the Members concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the motion of Censorship No 2 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recovering the Future. Law No 184 / XIII / 4 were also introduced into the Bureau. a ( GOV ) — Approves the overall review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound, which falls to 2. the Commission with connection to 1. the Commission, 185 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Sets out the forms of application of the occupational health and safety regime provided for in the Labour Code and supplementary legislation to public administration bodies and services, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caregiver, which goes down to 10. the Commission. He entered into the Bureau draft Law No 1128 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the incorporation of biofuels produced from palm oil ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 117 / 2010 of 25 October ), which falls to 6. the Commission with connection to 11. the Commission. In addition, the draft resolutions 1985 / XIII / 4 were added to the Bureau. a ( The Greens) — Establishment and regulation of the profession of call center operator, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1986 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government ensure the integration of all precarious workers of the RTP who meet the permanent needs, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1987 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the urgent re-qualification of EN225, 1988 / XIII / 4. a ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE and PAN ) — Establish the national day of hope, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1989 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government extend the specific system of access to reform to all slaughterhouse workers in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1990 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola, 1991 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for ecological improvement of the Esmoriz Quarter / Lagoa de Paramos, 1992 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Control of invasive species and infestants in the Fermentelos Pateira and depollution of the River Cértima and its tributaries, 1993 / XIII / 4. a ( NAP) — Recommends that the Government ensure that censuses and monitoring of the species subject to kinetic exploitation are carried out, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1994 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all those who use EN225, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject the amendment of the European Union's decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for a qualified majority, which falls to 4. the Commission, 1996 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Urgent requalification of national road No 225, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1997 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Preservation and requalification of the Aqueduct of St. Antão do Tojal. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of Parliamentary Assessments Nos 117 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the fields of animal protection and health and food safety, 118 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 21 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal bodies in the field of education and 119 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 22 / 2019, of 30 January, which develops the framework for the transfer of competence to municipalities in the field of culture. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u5	Mrs. Members, let us, then, initiate the appraisal of the motion of Censorship No 2 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recovering the Future. To open the debate by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today for discussion and vote in this House the second motion of censure to the Government of the Socialist Party supported by the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. It's 32. the motion of censure presented and not withdrawn in this Parliament. The Mota Pinto Government has suffered three motions of censure (not having been voted, one by adjourned and two because the Government resigned ), that of Sá Carneiro, one (not accepted by the Permanent Commission for the duration of the additional session ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u7	Starting the debate to apologize is a bad sign!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u8	... that of Pinto Balsamão, two, that of Mário Soares, one, those of Cavaco Silva, four, that of Durão Barroso, four, the second government of António Guterres, three, those of José Socrates, six, that of Passos Coelho, six. These 31 motions were presented by several parties: 11 PCP, 1 PSD, 6 CDS, 2 Greens, 5 PS and 5 Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u9	Ah! We already realize he wants to keep the medal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u10	Of all these, only a motion of censure directly determined the fall of the government, all the others were the affirmation of a political position against the various governments. Those who criticize this motion of censure today can do so because they understand that the government does not deserve to be censored, and here we are for that clarification, but it is a profound political hypocrisy that is intended to justify itself for any other reason. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For the CDS, the Government of António Costa has to be censored. This united Left Government is making deeply wrong choices for the country and this has to be made straight through a motion of censure. I'm glad there's the CDS to make opposition! [[PS laughter.]] I'm glad there's the CDS to use all the parliamentary instruments when you have the opposition! With a sense of duty, with frontality, with courage, without fear of criticism, because this is what people ask us throughout the country. We present this motion of censure to give voice to so many Portuguese people who, from north to south of the country, from the coast to the interior, are saturated with a government that many have cheated with the fable of the end of austerity, who are exaggerated with a government that has generated expectations after unmet, who are tired of a government that causes social rupture and arrogantly cuts the dialogue,... [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] ... a government that cannot govern, which is unable to solve problems, which creates them instead of avoiding them, a government that has made wrong choices that are now in the eyes of everyone. The strikes carried out and announced, in greater numbers than in difficult times of the troika, well reveal a government unable to maintain social peace, a government that with its erratic action in various areas of public policy, with health at the head, rather than solving problems, aggravates them even more.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u12	Teachers, nurses, doctors, police, prison guards, inspectors, judges, are just a few of the many professionals who despair about the lack of government dialogue. It's an exhausted government, naked, blocked and without action! It is a government led by a lost Prime Minister. A government that actually has only two ministers: the Prime Minister, who is a true minister of propaganda, and the Minister of Finance, the minister of austerity, the minister of captivity made a rule. [[PS laughter.]] Both masters of the budget illusion, such is the difference between the projected and the executed. This is the Government with maximum tax burden and minimum public services!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u14	This is the Government of the maximum tax burden and of the minimum public investment! This is the left-wing government that can contain in itself this huge contradiction: it charges people and businesses more and more to give them less and less in services and in investment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is a government conditioned for the first hour by the ideological ties of the most radical left and these ties feel area by area. In health today we have the most complete example: between the ideological prejudice of exclusively public management and maintaining the quality and efficiency of the public service provided at Braga Hospital, the government prefers ideology to people and ends the concession. And with this bad decision it also spreads concern and fear to all users of the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, in Loures, and the Vila Franca de Xira Hospital. Between the ideological prejudice of the exclusively public provider and the freedom of choice paid by public officials, the government prefers ideology and prepares to empty ADSE (Instituto de Proteção e Assistência na São Paulo, I.P. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. It questions not only the quality and possibility of choosing 1, 2 million beneficiaries, but also all those who today resort to the National Health Service ( SNS ) and the increasingly pressed summer. When the SNS is on the verge of the collapse, the Government of the Left further hastens this collapse, in obedience to its ideology. Inadmissible delays in consultations and surgeries, investments to be carried out, increasing debts, lack of basic consumables, lack of management tools, block layoffs, exhausted professionals, blockage in primary health care reform, lack of momentum in continuous and palliative care, non-existent strategy in relation to the ageing of the population, are well illustrated by the emergency situation before the blockade and inaction of the government. In the face of a system to collapse, Mr. Prime Minister, unable to explain horses for what is happening, responds with « production » numbers, revealing a government disconnected from the reality of people and revealing enormous social insensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has said goodbye to the country and has wasted the best international situation that there is memory to relaunch our country. With clear European and global growth, favourable European low-interest policy and low oil prices, the government has achieved mediocre results. Yes, mediocre results in economic growth, where we continue to be overcome by our European partners; mediocre results in labour productivity, where we are far below the European average, worse than in the past;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u15	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u16	... mediocre results in debt reduction, which continues to grow in nominal values and is still at 121, 2 % of GDP. This is the government that has broken down the tools at its disposal to boost the country. The implementation of the Community funds is well below the previous Community framework with the same time of implementation: today only 29 %, then 39 %, a 10 percentage point difference in the totality of all funds. But, if we look at more in detail, we are shocked at only 17 % of the implementation of the funds in the sea area, with 30 % of the implementation in support of investment of the funds in agriculture and forest, 32 % in non-higher education or with the loss of EUR 2000 million in the low-implementation of vocational training funds. In the area of infrastructure, the numbers are even more conflicting: only 5 %, I repeat, 5 % on the railway! This government is the champion of de-investment. You can do worse than, in 2015, I remember, the first year without the troika. This left-wing government goes far beyond the troika, even without having the troika here! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In a socialist way, the government has forgotten that it is necessary to create wealth and then to redistribute it; it has forgotten that those who create wealth are private companies; it has forgotten that without improving the conditions of growth we cannot improve the quality of public services. You made the wrong choices! And when the external environment gives signs of cooling, the government does not change a comma in its policies. Today we see an exhausted government, a remodeled government, which no longer exists to govern but only to prepare the elections. It is a government transformed into the campaign of the Socialist Party — seven months of socialist electoral campaign, at the expense of all of us, that is what is in the forge! Every day that passes without serious, effective and consequent governance is therefore a day wasted for our country. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] If the government is thinking only of elections, then we are going to elections, we will return the floor to the Portuguese, we will clarify the political framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u18	And to the one on the left who criticizes this motion of censure, I mean with all the frontality: be consistent with the criticisms they make every day to the government, here and on the street! Stop skills! They assume that they continue to support the government and spare us the undoubted desire to be both government and opposition... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... or, then, have stature and vote this motion of censure. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u19	He's trying to convince us with poetry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u20	We admit that they disagree on our grounds, but then they have the courage, PCP and Left Block, to present your own motions of censure to the Government. I challenge you to present your motions for censure and I can assure you that, regardless of the grounds, our position will then be the same today, by the end of the Government and by the return of the voice to the Portuguese, with elections already on May 26. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u21	The PSD doesn't hit hands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u22	Disecut anyone who wants to read or transfer various goals in the CDS action. Our position is very clear: it is enough for an incompetent government to waste time for our country! With this motion, we give voice to SNS users who are desperate for consultation or surgery. With this motion, we give voice to the many students and parents who want to have a quiet school year end. With this motion, we give a voice to employees and pensioners who see ADSE emptying. With this motion, we give voice to all the people who are sunk in the greatest tax burden ever to have the worst public services ever. With this motion, we give voice to all those who hope and despair for the approval and execution of investment projects using Community funds. With this motion, we give a voice to all those who are exaggerating in public service, with a arrogant government unable to dialogue. [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]] With this motion, we give voice to all the workers in the private sector who feel orphaned with this government, who pay more taxes for worse services, who continue to work more than in the public sector, who did not have any rest wages and — stop! — increasing in number of precariouss.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u24	With this motion, we give voice to all the entrepreneurs who fight for the growth of our economy, despite a government that carries on taxes and in no way helps. With this motion, we give voice to all those who aspire to a country where they can freely realize their dream of life, freed from the ties of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u25	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CDS, it is time to build an alternative right center for Portugal, and we are ready! It's time to have a trace and ambition for our country!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u28	It's time to regain the future! [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u29	Not even a PSD palm!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u30	For the opening of the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u31	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: This motion of censure has one and only one virtuality, to confirm that the right, PSD and CDS together, remains in minority in this Parliament and does not have any viable alternative of government. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This is therefore a true failed act against the government solution that the PS, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party were able to build in November 2015 and that this week the OECD Secretary-General considered to be « a very effective, very interesting model», « almost an exception in Europe », where the foci of instability multiply. The announced rejection of the motion of censure thus reinforces our international credibility, that the sustained reduction of interest rates expressed and the growth of investment recognizes, but above all, it is a cause of tranquillity for the Portuguese, that they see the continuity of political change begun three years ago and that they wish it to continue. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This motion, as indeed here has acknowledged Mrs Assumption Cristas, has nothing to do with the dispute of the government, but only with the measurement of forces within the opposition. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The artificialism of this initiative is, in fact, clear on the basis of the motion of censure, in which the CDS-PP intends to present itself as spokesperson for trade union struggles, who has always fought, as a champion of public investment, which has always diabolized, and even as guardian of the National Health Service, against which it voted and never gave up wanting to destroy. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It now proposes the CDS-PP that the Government not only comply with what CDS-PP considered impossible for the Government to do, but also what the Government has never promised to do. The CDS-PP, remember, defended that only in this year of 2019 would it be possible to fully restore the salary of public servants. This government has committed itself to repositioning it in full in 2016 and 2017, and has fulfilled what it has promised. The CDS-PP, remember, only intended to eliminate the overtax of IRS in this year 2019. This government undertook to eliminate it in 2016 and 2017, and complied.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u33	Finally, the CDS-PP recalls that it intended a new cut in paid pensions or an increase in contributions by more than 600 million euros. This government has undertaken not to make new cuts and to restore the cuts that had been made, and has fulfilled what it has promised. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] In other words, the Government, contrary to the will of the CDS-PP, has come to comply with everything it has committed to the Portuguese, to its parliamentary partners and to international institutions. And we can do it, because we measure, with account, weight and measure, every commitment we make,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u34	Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u35	...progressing safely and without fear of the devils that the right announced. It is this same confidence that enables us to go further, whenever possible, without jeopardising the irreversibility of what we have already recovered, but it is also the same confidence that makes us not to assume new commitments that we know we must not take. Is that a CDS-PP? The CDS-PP, which was against all the commitments we have made, what does it say about the claims we are not committed to? Or do you not want to commit, with the same will that you proclaim it is time to make reforms, and tell what reforms it refers to? The CDS, in the name of transparency, should clearly state what trade union claims it defends and accepts and what reforms it even intends to make. Tell the CDS what you have to say! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The CDS-PP conceals what it really wants because, whoever defends as a reform of the National Health Service its dissolution, and I quote, «in competition between the public, private and social sectors», it cannot be found in the guardianship of the public SNS, universally and tends to be free of charge, which the Constitution guarantees to all Portuguese and all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] in the same way, when it speaks of the debts to suppliers, it is supported by the 2017 data to hide that, however, late payments have already decreased by 42, 4 % during 2018. Therefore, the papal of the captivitys, instead of recognizing that, throughout this legislature, we have already recovered the cuts made in public spending on health done in the previous legislation,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] ... which allowed an increase in investment, the hiring of more 9000 professionals, the reduction by 25 % of moderate rates and the reduction by half of the number of Portuguese without a family doctor. Therefore, the CDS-PP forgets the global progress already made in the recovery of production of SNS, from 2015 to 2018, with over 580 000 primary health care consultations, plus 180 000 consultations in hospitals, plus 16 000 surgeries. No, Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, they are not abstract numbers, they are concrete people who were attended in the consultations and who were operated on their diseases. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] On the other hand, the CDS-PP intends to confuse the growth of revenue with the increase in taxes and the effect of the transition of Community frameworks, which it has not been able to prepare, with the option of the current government to disinvest. Now, the government promised to reduce the IRS, and it did. The government promised to reduce VAT, and it did. The government agreed to create the professional gas oil, and it did. The government has not promised to reduce any more taxes, and it is also fulfilling. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[PSD laughter.]] Contributing revenue improves not by rising taxes but by the fruit of economic growth. It is the increase in employment and wages that improves the revenue of social security, the increase in domestic demand that improves the revenue of VAT and is the increase in the activity of companies that improves the revenue of IRC. No, the CDS isn't right! The government has not increased or increased taxes, on the contrary, also in tax matters, has met to a certain extent what it has committed itself to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards investment, it should be recalled that in November 2015 Portugal 2020 was still paralysed, without works being carried out, without contracts concluded, without open competitions and, in general cases, without any projects under preparation. It was indeed the priority given to the acceleration of Portugal 2020 that allowed us to regain lost time and to have today the best implementation rate of the European Union. This priority was given to investment, which required us even to seek alternative sources of financing for investments essential to the competitiveness of the economy that had been forgotten in the PT2020, such as links to the areas of business location, which we had to finance with funds from the State budget, or the extension of more than 90 000 new hectares of irrigation—which the then Minister of Agriculture ceased to finance—through a contract we had to conclude with the European Investment Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public investment has thus been growing sustainably since the beginning of the legislature... [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u36	Ah, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u37	... having programmes such as the 2020 Railway, a 40 % implementation rate, between work already completed, in progress, awarded or competed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u38	What a show!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u39	This is a very cross-sectional investment programme in infrastructure and mobility, environment and energy, education and health, and in the implementation of the laws on the programming of national security and defence forces. This is a programme that is already at cruise speed and ensures annual investment growth above 10 % by 2022 / 2023. But we must not forget the lesson of the mistakes of the previous government. To prevent the next transition of tables from suffering the discontinuity it has suffered, it is essential to discuss and approve the National Investment Programme in a timely manner. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of the legislature we could discuss what the government intends to do. Today we can begin to evaluate the results of the political change that we have begun and which has ensured the first two years of convergence with the European Union since accession to the euro, namely the creation of 348 000 new jobs, a positive migration balance since 2017, the reduction of poverty and inequality, the reduction of early school dropouts and the increase of students in higher education, in a framework of sustained reduction of public debt, with the lowest deficits in our democracy. There is still much to do, in the recovery of the wounds of the crisis and in the preparation of the future. Of course, of course there is! That is why we are here, determined to continue our work. That is also why the right should continue to be a minority not only in this Parliament but also in the country, for the sake of Portugal and for the benefit of Portuguese. [[Congratulations, standing, doPS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u40	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mrs Assumption Cristas has a request for clarification from the PS bench, so I give the floor to Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristas, I confess to you that in recent days I have tried to find substantive political reasons for this motion, but I cannot find any substantive reason. I know that in politics, sometimes it is necessary to create new political facts to solve some old ghosts and, therefore, I went to look at the news on Thursday and Friday and found a ghost. This ghost is called « Atlantic Pavilion ». [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u42	Of course, when we have a ghost, we have to find another political fact to bring to the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is another circumstance that I would also like to bring. Jean-Marie Le Pen, this great figure of French democracy,... [[PS laughter.]] ... he said that « when we have nothing to say, we make noise». That's what Mrs. Deputy and the CDS have done here in the last few days! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have nothing to say and you make noise! Political life is not exactly a children's park, and Parliament is not exactly a Berliner game.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u43	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u44	We are not just having a debate here. This childish attitude of wanting to discuss the leadership of the right with the PSD is a problem that must be solved by both, but do not put Parliament in the middle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mrs. Member, can you look into the eyes of the Portuguese and find a reason to speak in public services? If you look back, you see Mr. Pedro Mota Soares. Do you know how many people he wanted to send away in the last few months of his legislation? Over 800 people! More than 800 people in social security! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Member, are you here talking about economic growth? Economic growth? With 340 000 new jobs created? Mrs. Member, can you look, eyes in the eyes, those people who didn't have a job and now they have? Oh, my God! Mrs. Member, can you look at those people, those young graduates who didn't have a job and now they have? Oh, my God! Mrs. Member, can you do that? And you can do that without laughing? [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the point of this motion of censure! That is the central point of this discussion! The honourable Member is not doing serious politics here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u45	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u46	The honourable Member is doing political chicana here and Parliament cannot accept this! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member spoke for a moment about health issues. Well, only if it's to claim more business for the private,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...because that's really your show, your cart. National Health Service, Member? Where? When? Mrs. Deputy, you also talked about passing through in education. So, Mrs Deputy, what came here to defend private colleges and maintain contracts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u47	And then?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u48	Have you forgotten about that moment? They're talking about education! In what? And for what? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is your debate, what is your proposal? That is the central issue! But, Madam Member, I would also like to speak to you about what is central to the moment we live. The honourable Member put forward a motion of censure here, but did not bring that usual expression that the Socialists were spending or spoke of the deficit, which were always those great scenarios that the honourable Member brought here to Parliament. And why will it be? [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know, Mrs. Member, Mr. Paulo Portas, who is the political father of almost all, except for Mr. Anacoreta Correia, said so in 2010... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u49	Do you really want to talk about families? Oh, my God! Parents and children? Oh, my God! Husbands and women? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u50	It is on the CDS website, you can verify, it was on June 14, 2010. [[Continued CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President! [[Pause.]] Mr. Paulo Portas said: « As the CDS is a party with a government vocation, it must have responsibility. To present a motion of censure is not a free act, it implies presenting an alternative. It implies telling the Portuguese what we would change, what we would do better».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u52	Finally he started saying something right! That's it, it's all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u53	Continuing: « It implies that this motion of censure would have to be passed in the Assembly of the Republic and, at the moment, there are no such political conditions». That is, Mr. Paulo Portas, in 2010 sentenced this motion of censure. He made a motion of censure to the CDS motion of censure that we are debating here today! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u54	In reply, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u55	Not a PSD question? Oh, my God! It's serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u56	Mr President, Mr Ascenso Simões, the way the Socialist Party presents itself in this debate, the chosen Member and the chosen tone say everything about how they feel and how they need to defend themselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the past, Mr President, I just wanted to tell you that, on this side, we have not received any lesson from who belonged to a government of José Socrates...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u57	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u58	... nor of those who put unemployed in posters and who were not, after all, merely political personnel of the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u59	Family members of Mr. Carlos César!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u60	So there's nothing to say about that! I think they're wrong, I think the Socialist Party has failed in the choice of the person.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u61	And they're talking about level! What a high level!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u62	With regard to the questions put, Mr President, let me tell you that the concern of the CDS is always, and only the same: to defend the Portuguese, the citizens who, every day, suffer the collapse of the National Health Service, that you both defend, but in practice are destroying. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u63	Mr Ascenso Simões perhaps should be more attentive to what is happening throughout the country in all hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u64	I'm from Vila Real!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u65	Perhaps, Mr President, you do not know that, for example, in the Algarve right now, surgeons with bigger hands cannot perform surgery. You know why? Because gloves are missing! There are no gloves for your size! [[PS protests.]] These are surgeries that are not performed, because there is a basic element as this one. This is the National Health Service you're defending! [[Continued PS protests.]] So, honourable Member, what I say to you is that we, yes, defend health for all Portuguese, defend quality, defend efficiency. We have no ideological prejudice to understand whether the service should be provided by the public, private or social. So let us also defend ADSE, that you prepare to empty out!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u66	Also missing gloves in ADSE!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u67	Mr Ascenso Simões, I am most pleased to discuss everything, but I must tell you that, with your intervention, you have qualified very little for this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u68	Let us now turn to the requests for clarification to Mr Prime Minister, to what are registered 11 Mrs. Members — the government bench has already clarified that it would answer the questions at the end — and I remember that we are only talking about the first round. First of all, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the CDS presents us here with a motion of censure which is entitled to recover the future. Now, one of the advantages of being at the end of the legislature is that we know, by the votes and positions that the CDS and PSD have taken along the Legislature, what the future the CDS and PSD wanted for the Portuguese people. That is why we are all very comfortable on this bench, to say no, we do not want to recover this future! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It is that, Mr. Prime Minister, this would be a future in which there had not, or had not happened when it happened, the elimination of wage cuts, the defrosting of career progressions, the resumption of 35 hours'working time in the Public Administration, the reduction of IRS, the elimination of over-tax or the set of policies that allowed more than 300 000 jobs to be created, that the unemployment rate would go down to half and also, a particularly expensive number, that had left poverty about 300 000 Portuguese, having recorded the greatest reduction in the risk of poverty throughout the euro area just in the first two years of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I heard someone from the CDS yesterday, I really think the leader said that the intention of the CDS was to release the country from these « socialist ties ». Mr Prime Minister, with these figures I have just mentioned, with these results, I must tell you that at least I like these « socialist ties». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u70	And who are we to criticize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u71	Above all, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to poverty reduction, I like these « socialist ties», because they are those ties which mean that when the country progresses, we do not throw hundreds of thousands of Portuguese on the edge. That is what these "socialist ties" are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I leave two very quick questions, one on public expenditure. There is a sentence, in the motion of censure, that the captivations that turn into cuts, which is an illustration of the concern with which the CDS normally deals with the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u72	Iliteracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u73	Let's see: in an acceptable definition for everyone, cutting the expenditure is when the amount of expenditure goes down. A captivating expenditure is what has been done throughout this government, when the planned expenditure rises and is intended to control the rate of the rise of that expenditure. Now, Prime Minister, you can confirm two things: the first is that in fundamental sectors such as social and health, expenditure has risen; and the second — I think you can agree with me — is when I say that going up is the opposite of going down. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I leave a second and final question. We have seen a set of labor claims from various sectors of the Public Administration, which will be more or less fair, which will certainly be legitimate from the point of view of the effort and the desire of each one to improve his condition, but as Mr Prime Minister has said, do not correspond to government commitments. In this regard, I would like to remind you of a commitment from the Government, which has also been mentioned here by my comrade Ascension Simões : it is that all the measures that have been taken, throughout the legislature, all those commitments that we have made, and we have fulfilled, have been taken on the assumption that it would also be possible to sustainly reduce the public deficit and public debt. I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, whether this concern will continue in future commitments by the Government. — to be the mark of this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u74	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro. I must say that the requests for clarification have been organized in order to register in the Bureau. There is no other criterion in this debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, today's debate is another opportunity to question the failures of your Government. Mr Prime Minister, throughout the government, has always been affirming the importance of public investment for economic recovery. He said several times, moreover, that the previous government was an enemy of public investment, which, with its government, would turn to the austerity page and favour investment. A few months from the elections, then we look at its performance in this area, in particular with regard to the investment of the exclusive responsibility of the central administration, without the actual investment or of the regional governments. The numbers, taken from the General Account of the State and the Summary of Budgetary Implementation, are these, Mr. Prime Minister. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a chart on public investment.]] This is the evolution of public investment throughout the legislature. Even now, it is far from reaching 2015 levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u77	It is about EUR 1500 million invested if it had maintained the 2015 level of investment. Is this the end of austerity, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! And the consequence, Prime Minister, is that which the Portuguese feel, with the degradation of numerous public services from north to south of the country. [[At the moment, PSD deputy Joana Barata Lopes displayed the public investment chart and thus remained until the end of the speaker's speech.]] Mr. Prime Minister, what about investment in health? You, who left monstrous debts in hospitals, which the previous government had to pay, and who fill their mouths with the need to invest in the SNS, what did they do? They talked a lot, they really talked a lot, but the reality is this. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed another chart on health investment.]] Here you are, Prime Minister, what is the investment in health. They are less than 16, 3 % than in 2015. This is the reality of numbers, Prime Minister! [[PS protests.]] And what is the consequence of this? It's the one that all Portuguese feel when they go to the pharmacy and tell them there's no medication.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u78	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u79	The consequence is Portuguese families who go to the window row to remove the waiting password in health centers and hospitals to wait days and days, weeks, months for consultations and surgeries. This is the reality, Prime Minister, of the end of your austerity. [[PS protests.]] [[Currently, PSD Member Ricardo Baptista Leite displayed the chart on health investment and thus remained until the end of the speaker's speech.]] And what do you say, Prime Minister, what happens in education? They spoke a lot, they promised a lot, they even said that the teachers would be the alpha and the omega of your governance. But I'm not even going around today. Let's talk about the investment made by this government, by the Ministry of Education, and, Prime Minister, the numbers are these. The speaker showed another graph on investment in education. These are the numbers! I mean, he keeps coming down! Always coming down! [[PS protests.]] They can't keep the investment levels of 2015! Mr. Prime Minister, do you know the consequences of this? Do you know what they are? They are the ones families feel when they go to schools to talk to the school directors and they tell them that they are demotivated, abandoned and insulted by the government every day. [[PS protests.]] It is also what Portuguese families, parents, the education officers of young children who go there, when they go to school and the director says that there is no money to repair the school, that there is no money to repair the recreation, that there are not enough employees to respond to the challenges. This is the legacy. [[At the moment, PSD Member António Costa Silva displayed the chart on investment in education and thus remained until the end of the speaker's speech.]] But, Prime Minister, I realize that these are consequences that most of you don't know, because they don't go to public school, because they don't have your children there. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u80	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u81	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u82	That's why you don't know what's really going on at school! Is this the end of austerity, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, and what about the investment made in infrastructure in Dr. Pedro Marques department, now your list head to Europeans?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u83	Look, there's still people in the front row without posters!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u84	Promises were many, almost thousands; PowerPoint are hundreds; rumble parties for the launch and opening of contests were not missing either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u86	Anyway, a lot of cunts and little grapes! But the reality of numbers is this, Prime Minister. The speaker presented a new chart on investment in planning and infrastructure. It is less 27, 5 % investment than it was realized in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u87	Look, Mrs Margarida Mano doesn't have a poster yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u88	This is the reality! They spoke a lot, but they did a little! They've done very little! [[PS protests.]] They spoke a lot, but they did a little! What are the consequences, Prime Minister? The consequences are not felt by you, who travel on the highways in official state cars, with drivers. Don't! They are felt by thousands of young people and children, who travel on the road to increasingly degraded schools, some of them threatening to ruin. [[At the moment, PSD Member Margarida Mano displayed the chart on planning and infrastructure and thus remained until the end of the speaker's speech.]] These are the people who feel the consequences...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u89	What's wrong with the Negro? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u90	... or, then, are the thousands of Portuguese who saw trains behind trains being suppressed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u91	I didn't see any of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u92	... with endless delays, which, by buying tickets for Intercities, were forced to walk on regional trains,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u94	... or, worse yet, they're already on the train, on the way to work, and they're standing on the line because the train engine has fallen in progress, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this is the reality that the Portuguese feel every day. And all this because you speak and don't do it, announce but don't carry it out. And, you know, Prime Minister, these problems are not solved by family solutions, they are resolved by fulfilling what is promised, not by words, advertisements and propaganda. This will soften your ego, but don't solve the problems of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u95	It's CDS-PP time. You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Christian Assumption. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u96	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to your speech, I believe that the same cannot apply to what I said, since Mr Prime Minister began precisely by coming here to present a thesis that does not entirely correspond to the motivation and objective of the CDS. I'm sorry, but we really want to go to the elections. I'm sorry, but we really think this government is hurting the country. I'm sorry, but we really think there are many Portuguese people who need to feel that their voice is heard here. I'm sorry to bother you with this, Prime Minister. Now, note well, it gives by purchase, in advance, a vote of the PCP and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u97	It's been announced!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u98	Last Friday!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u99	... which means that PCP and Left Block are properly aligned with the Socialist Party and the Government. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] We'll be here to check that out. Moreover, I have already challenged them to present your motion of censure to the Government as they criticize both sides.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u100	Mrs. Deputy is only paying attention to the Atlantic Pavilion!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u101	But if that is the best option, we will be clarified on that point. Mr. Prime Minister, he made a role of promises that he had made and that he had fulfilled. However, I would like to ask you if you promised your voters the greatest tax burden of all time, because that is what the Portuguese pay right now, the greatest tax burden of all time. Did you promise or not? Did you or did you not promise the greatest weight of indirect taxes ever? More: taxes that are blind to each one's contribution capacity. He pays both the liter of gas or gasoline for the one who earns much as the one who earns little. So, Prime Minister, did you promise or did you not promise to raise indirect taxes? Mr. Prime Minister, did you promise or didn't you promise to make the worst public investment ever? Mr. Prime Minister, the PSD facilitated the work by showing me very timely graphics and therefore showed exactly how the public investment of its government in 2018 remains below the 2015 values. You guys go beyond the troika, even without the troika! Mr Prime Minister, you promised a good implementation of the Community funds. Let me tell you, and it was good for you to have some fidelity to the truth: Mr Prime Minister calls for the first place in the Community funds, but forgets to say that Portugal is from the countries that receive the most because, in fact, we are in seventh place in the implementation of the Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u103	at present, we are 10 percentage points below the implementation of the previous framework in the same period. Therefore, in the Community funds, your government also fails, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u105	Mr. Prime Minister promised social peace. The Socialist Party came to rule for social peace. Where is this social peace, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Sector to sector, professional group to professional group, no longer to speak of the private sector, so sacrificed, where the number of precariouss, great worry on the left, but I do not hear them talk about it. Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you the following: what distinguishes us — and look at the National Health and Health Service of Portuguese as a good example — is that you are concerned about being the guardian of a system that is in collapse and the CDS is concerned about being the guardian...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u106	The roof!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u107	...the health of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u108	Your focus is the system, your inability is to look beyond the system and realize that the system is wrong, it's chaotic, it's collapsing and you're collapsing, because it's tied to your left-wing options,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u109	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u110	... is bound to the PCP and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u111	A little while ago they were the Block and the PCP that were tied to the PS ; now it's the PS that's tied up! Let's decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u112	He can't even figure out where he's taking us. So, yes, we have a big difference. If Mr. Prime Minister wants help to rule, let's change, and then we'll see what's the difference. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u113	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are in a somewhat strange debate. It is called a motion of censure to the government, but the proposer rushed to explain that it was not right. On the day you announced the presentation of this motion, you soon said that this was to clarify the position of the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u115	Vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u116	...and, therefore, I assume we're in a right race.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u117	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u118	There was also one who noted that the CDS presented the motion of censure few hours after the announcement of a public prosecutor's investigation for the sale of the Atlantic Pavilion, made by the PSD / CDS government, when Assumption Cristas was the minister of guardianship. Maybe it could also be a smoke curtain. But we, in the Left Block, who take these things seriously, did not stop reading the text of the motion that the CDS wrote...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u119	You have a motion of censure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u120	... and we took the only possible conclusion: it is a motion of self-assessment. The CDS is censoring itself for what you have done so far. And it does very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u122	Write the CDS that labor struggles and strikes are more than many. He speaks of social challenge and social mobilization as he has never seen a right party do in Portugal. It cites several examples of expectations, legitimate, that have not been answered. And it is a fact that teachers, security forces, judicial officers claim for the fair counting of service time, that nurses and senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians want to see fulfilled the promises about their careers, that Petrogal workers fight for their collective contract of work and wait for this Parliament to give them strength and end the unilateral expiry of the collective contract that gives the heirs of Américo Amorim all the power to lower wages and rights. But it is the CDS, which did not want the replacement of holidays, neither the 35 hours of weekly work, nor the payment of extraordinary hours, which did not want anything done on behalf of those who work, is the CDS, I repeat, who today sees the strikes made by the country and censure the government for what has not yet been done. It's extraordinary! It is a fact that the government could and should have gone further, but what the CDS hides, but the whole country knows, is that if these advances did not happen it was because the same CDS, whether by abstention or by vote against, supported the Government to block each of the solutions when the left side proposed them here. [[Congratulations from BE.]] from the counting of service time in the public service to the recognition of careers in health or in the protection of workers in private, the PS always counted on the right, PSD and CDS, to ensure the lead of the Bloc proposals that met the fair demands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u123	Present a motion of censure to the Government! Be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u124	When he invokes the challenge and strikes, the CDS may only be censoring itself for supporting the government to block progress in the rights of those who work. It's true! The CDS deserves all the censorship! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS also accuses the Government of the lack of public investment, of problems in the National Health Service and infrastructure, but once again the CDS is censoring itself, because both in relation to the autonomy of hospitals, and in relation to the National Railway Plan, the CDS has never given its vote in favour of investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u125	Well remembered! [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u126	For our part, we have already announced the vote against this bizarre CDS initiative, whether this is a floral game in the field on the right to force the PSD to run behind the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u127	It's not on the right. It's on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u128	... be this an attempt by a biombo, large enough to cover the Atlantic Pavilion, i.e. a problem of self-assessment of the CDS, which is sorry for the times it has supported the government. Well, whatever the motivation of the CDS, this motion does not deserve our vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u130	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u131	But, Prime Minister, the government has answers to give, not to the CDS, but to the country. Anyone who contests the government or feels disappointed does not want the return of the cuts on the right nor does he see himself in the CDS motion or these games, but is giving another sign, which, yes, must be heard. Those who expect that, in this legislature, if they do better are those who believe in a change and know that it can be more meaningful. That is why the Government and Parliament have to answer. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In health, resisting the threats and blackmails of economic groups, which make the disease a business, and investing more in the SNS (National Health Service) and its professionals. We have one of the best health services in the world, we need less iron arms and more solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u133	In schools, as in all public services, respecting the time of service of those who suffered all cuts, endured the troika and the right and still kept the country working.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u135	Ending the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Program of the Precarious Links in Public Administration ), without leaving anyone behind. In transport and infrastructure, making the investment urgent and that it is possible to do. In 2018, more than EUR 1000 million of investment remained to be carried out again. Solving the investment deficit is what counts for the health of the economy and the public accounts. In the legislation of work, protecting collective bargaining and shift workers, recognizing informal caregivers, respecting the expectations of those who work, those who produce wealth and those who build the country. There's still time. It remains to be seen whether the government is going to lean on the right, which today engages in censorship games, or whether, on the contrary, it wants to take advantage of the months we still have for the advancements that are missing and that count in people's lives: wages, housing, health, education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u136	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, leave the lost right in your games and advance where you have hesitated or where you are late. The Block won't miss! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u138	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, as we had already said on Friday, at so little time of legislative elections, which are already marked on 6 October, this initiative of the CDS was not an initiative that could be taken seriously, because it was only intended to make a staging in the CDS dispute, which is legitimate but objective, by its space on the right and, as it is to be perceived, the CFP does not interfere in this CDS dispute. It's something beyond them! [[PCP laughter.]] Today, it became even more evident with the defense that the CDS itself came to make of its motion of censure, when it began with an apology from Mrs Cristian Mrs, who said that after all, it presented this motion of censure, but perhaps it did not wish to present it properly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u140	No, no! PCP is having hearing problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u141	The CDS has to clarify this during the debate you still have to do so. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, we, throughout this Parliament, have identified a circumstance which is also objective and which is very clear: in relation to everything in which there is progress, positive measures for workers and the people, is the mark of the CFP and the CFP initiative;... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ...in relation to everything that is problem to solve and as it does not move forward, we find the support of the PSD and the CDS to the PS and the government so that things do not move forward. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I will give concrete examples of how that is so. The national minimum wage could be set at 650 € for all workers in the public and private sectors, but it is not. Why? Because the PSD and CDS gave this support to the PS when they rejected the PCP proposal. More: there could have been a reform without penalties for those who discounted for 40 years; there could have been a removal of propines; there could have been an increase in school social stock exchanges; there could have been a repeal of Mr. ex-Minister Assunção Cristos' law; there could have been a revocation of the tolls in the ex-SCUT; there could have been a replacement of fragesias; there could have been better conditions for transport to non-emergency patients; there could have been an update of the scientific research scholarships. Why wasn't there any of this? Because the PSD and CDS gave the PS the support it needed to reject the PCP proposals. [[PCP applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u142	And in many other matters, Mr Prime Minister, there could have been more significant advances than those verified. There could have been more public investment in the social functions of the State; there could have been a more significant reduction in the IRS; there could have been greater increases in the family allowance; there could have been progress in the replacement of overtime or 25 days of holiday for all workers; there could have been more significant advances in the linkage of teachers or in the counting of service time. Why didn't that happen? Because the PSD and CDS understood to give the PS the strength that it alone did not have to reject the PCP proposals. And that, Prime Minister, confirms precisely what we have said. [[PCP applause.]] But we also know that the goal of the CDS, in particular with this motion of censure and with the dispute that seeks to make space to the right, is to gain strength to walk back. Now, in our perspective, the path is exactly the opposite: what we need is to move forward in all that has been done and in response to the problems that have not been answered. I would therefore like to ask you three specific questions in relation to critical areas for the future of our country, starting with labour legislation. It is under discussion, especially in the Assembly of the Republic, changes to labour legislation. What we want to know is whether the convergence of the PS and the Government is going to be done with the PSD and the CDS or whether they are going to converge with the PCP for the repeal of the serious standards of the Labour Code, for the defence of collective bargaining and the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker, for the fight against precariousness, the fight against the deregulation of working hours, the fight against the reduction of the weekly hours of 35 hours for all workers, the fight against the strengthening of workers' rights in shiftwork, the end of the hour bank and adaptability. What are the convergences that the PS and the government want to make in terms of labour legislation? With regard to health, Mr. Prime Minister, the defence of the right to health must be assumed against the ideology of the health business that the PSD and the CDS seek to impose all force. [[PCP applause.]] What is the convergence that the PS and the government want to make? Is it with the defense of the National Health Service and the right to health or with the ideology of the health business? In particular, with regard to ADSE, Prime Minister, how will the government respond to the blackmail the economic groups are doing with health, against the State and ADSE, breaking contracts and refusing health care whose commitment they had made? Will the government take on the challenge posed by the PCP to respond to blackmail from economic groups, investing in the SNS and, if necessary, requiring the services of private hospitals, or will it make other convergences with the PSD and the CDS? Mr Prime Minister, to conclude, and for the CTTs, I will say the following: we have scheduled for tomorrow a debate on the recovery of the public control of the CTTs, draft law which will be voted on next Friday. Will the PS and the Government converge with the PSD and the CDS by maintaining privatization or by taking convergence with the PCP, recovering the public control of TTCs to ensure the right to postal service by keeping the company providing it and keeping the stations of the mails that the populations need? What are the convergences of the PS and the government? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u143	To conclude the first round of requests for clarification, you have the floor for the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Assumption Cristas killed her motion of censure at the beginning of her speech, just in the first words, when she completely devalued the presentation of this motion of censure saying that it would not serve what a motion of censure serves, but rather for a mere political position. Just as those who come to the Assembly of the Republic make a political statement. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Therefore, it was the CDS itself that devalued and weakened its motion of censure. But what could we expect from this motion of censure? What can she actually reveal? Of course, a wish of the CDS: that elections could take place as quickly as possible, because the CDS knows that the PSD is internally broken...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u145	Is he there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u146	... and considers that it could profit something if the elections were made as soon as possible. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS could go get something to the PSD electorate. Electoral strategy, Your Honor! Well, knowing Mrs Cristian Assumption that there will be no anticipation of the elections, taking into account the outcome announced regarding this motion of censure, at least it will aim to demonstrate that the CDS can drag the PSD. when presenting a motion of censure, the PSD is obliged to vote in favour of it, although it does not agree with the anticipation of the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u147	Don't worry. We know the government is bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u148	In fact, then, what does this motion of censure mean? Really, if we had a chess board, it would be a check to the Rio, the same is saying a check to the PSD, a political space dispute with the PSD. So, summarizing and concluding, we have a CDS much more concerned with elections than with the country. End point! Checkmate! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, by the Greens, we must remember what was the massacre of PSD/CDS governance. It is important to remember, it is important that people do not forget the logic of the salaries cut off, the pensions cut off, the enormous increase in taxes, the rise in unemployment, the increase in poverty and, now, Mrs Assumption Cristas, the « Law of the Dispatch », the « Law of the Liberalisation of the Eucalyptus» — Mrs Deputies, do you remember that you were able to stop the construction of your own dam and refused to do so? — finally, so many other examples we could give here. The logic was that the country would always be better if the Portuguese made enormous sacrifices and lived worse — a completely wrong logic! in this legislature, The Greens have always sought and beat their feet to reverse this logic in order to prove that, if the Portuguese lived better, the Country would naturally be better. And in this Parliament we had to fight in order to reverse the previous political logic, with the return of income, creating better conditions for the dynamisation of our economy, with the reversal of the « law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus», with the increase of investment in the transport sector, among so many other examples that we could give. It is also important to ask: with this PS government and with this solution, did what could be done? Don't! Where did we get to? Don't! And there, Prime Minister, the blame lies with the PS and the government. And I'll explain why. Because if the PS hadn't glued so many times to the PSD and CDS, the country would have improved with it. And if the CDS and PSD hadn't so often helped and handed over to the government, the country would have been better. For example, there could have been, in a dynamisation logic, in particular within the country, a revocation of the tolls of the ex-SCUT (cost-free tolls for the user). We could have bet on the reversal of the privatisation of TTCs. We could have bet on improving health and environmental conditions, in particular, taking into account some specific rules for the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms. We could have fulfilled the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, with the gradual elimination of tips in higher education. This is just to give a few examples. More, Prime Minister, if the PS had not exchanged more investment for less deficit, even less deficit than the one scheduled, we would have had better conditions to make more investment, necessary to the country. It was a great failure on the part of the Government, who sought « to make it beautiful » for Brussels, for the great international credibility for Brussels, but credibility either is in here, Prime Minister, generating the best possible living conditions for the Portuguese! And what is possible is not being done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u150	Finally, Mr President, there are two issues on which the Government must have very clear definitions and which the Prime Minister must answer, in particular in this debate. With regard to health, will the government give in to the interests and blackmails of the private? Or will the government, in fact, safeguard those who are the interests of the users, in particular to invest in the National Health Service? In the area of education, does the government go to negotiations with the unions of irreducible teachers or is it going to a real negotiation? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u151	At the end of the first round of requests for clarification, Mr Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to follow the order in which the questions have been put to me. First of all, I respond to the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. There is one thing that is clear, I believe, in our commitment to the Portuguese. It is that our commitments have all been well measured, with account, weight and measure. We said what we could do and even said what we couldn't do. I am well aware that in the last elections we probably lost a lot of votes to say that we didn't do a few things that we did. Then, in our negotiations with the Greens, the CFP and the Left Block, we were able to find a faster pace of implementing many measures or even adopt measures that we had not envisaged in our Programme. But we have always had a rule, a gold rule that we have to keep until the end of our governance, I would even say that it must be a gold rule of any government. It is that all commitments are possible as long as they do not question the sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u154	This must be a rule of gold from public finances, and that must be done - we will always do it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Emídio Guerreiro has sought to restore the PSD in this debate, focusing on the subject of investment. The first thing I'd like to say to you. Members of the PSD bench congratulate them for finally seeing them reconciled with investment and for not seeing in investment a ghost of spending Socrates, but something essential to the development of our economy, the citizenship of Portuguese and territorial cohesion. I'm glad you've become investment friends! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is unfortunate, Mr President, that in this debate you want to confuse what is not confusing. As we all know, the best public investment year is always the final year, n + 2, of the implementation of any Community support framework. The lowest years of public investment are always the years of the start of the new Community support framework. The transition from the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) to Portugal 2020 was particularly disastrous, and that is why there was a delay in starting public investment. Mr. Deputy looks so proud for 2015 and I draw your attention to the fact that only the work of the Marão tunnel,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u155	What about health? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u156	I'll talk about health! As I was saying, I draw your attention to the fact that only the work of the Marão tunnel, which was one of those works that was presented as an example of the megalomanic spending of socialist governance, justifies much of the investment that was made in 2015 because only in 2015 was completed and was duly accounted for. It also refers to investment in public transport. Mr Deputy, even last week, I had the opportunity, together with the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, to launch the competition for the acquisition of 10 new ships for the Transtejo. Only this tender has an investment of EUR 90 million. Now, these EUR 90 million are greater than the total investment in public transport that occurred during the four years of your governance! Do you know how long it's been? It was 75 million euros! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what we are paying today in terms of quality of public transport has to do with the accumulated problems of four years of consecutive de-investment and with the idea that transport companies did not serve to transport, but to produce an EBITA (earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation) for the Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro to present. That is the cost that we are paying today for the investment that it was necessary to make and that has not been made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is speaking about health. Well, the reality is this: Mr. Deputy has been fighting for current spending on drugs and investment. So let's talk about the overall expenditure on health: overall expenditure on health, throughout this legislature, was, year after year, increasing to restore the EUR 1300 million that VV. Ex.a. they had cut and we're back now. These EUR 1300 million finance, for example, an increase of EUR 555 million only in infrastructure investment. But it also finances the investment that was necessary to make, and it was a priority, the recovery of all human resources that were needed to fill the National Health Service. Today, we can worry about gloves, but it's because we've already hired 9000 more professionals for the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe that he was the Secretary of State of the Government who, in this House, proudly presented the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019, saying « Between 2010 and 2014, expenditure on staff in the National Health Service decreased by EUR 250 million ». It was this that you were proud to have done in the four years of your government... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and that's what was needed to recover so that the National Health Service could work. Therefore, Mrs Assunción Cristas, when she says « let us change», to see how she can govern, let me tell you, with all honesty, the following: it is not worth it, because we have already seen it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u157	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u158	We've seen what I was defending and we've seen what I'm defending! Mrs Deputy was a minister in a government who presented a stability programme in which the salaries of civil servants were returned only this year of 2019. Well, we returned the salaries in 2016 and 2017. If you had been in my place, still today the civil servants would be waiting to recover the order that had been cut off from them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member proposed that this year alone the overtax of the IRS should be eliminated. If I were in my place, still today the Portuguese would be paying the overtax of the IRS. As it is not in my place since 2017 that the Portuguese do not pay the overtax of the IRS! The most decisive thing is that if you were in my place, there would have been a EUR 600 million collection at the cost of cutting paid pensions and at the cost of new contributions to be made. That's what would have happened if it had been in my place! And, Mrs Deputy, as far as your resume is concerned, we understand: the liberalisation of the eucalyptus and the public calamity it has unleashed in the housing market are sufficient to know its qualities in governance! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputies, you can now make excuses from the PSD, from the public opinion, from whom you understand, but let me tell you, with all honesty, that I am very strange to say here, ufana, that you want even the fall of the government and that you want even elections, because still on 6 December, about two months ago, when you were heard by the President of the Republic, on the date when the legislative elections were to take place, you said: "The date, I am not asking. They are naturally at the end of September or at the beginning of October.' [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u159	They forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u161	Mr. Prime Minister only answered one part!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u162	Is Mr. Prime Minister not finished yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u163	Not yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u164	Mr Prime Minister, for a matter of balance, although the times are discounted in global time, I ask you to be brief in this final part of the answer, because you still have 15 more questions to answer in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u165	Mr President, I do not intend to argue with the Bureau, but I had asked for two blocks and the Bureau understood that there should now be one. It is an indelicacy not now to respond either to the Left Block or to the PCP or to the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u166	No, no, no. There'll be two blocks. In fact, there is only one Left Block, but there are two blocks of questions! Please, Prime Minister, respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u167	Mrs Catarina Martins, she does well when she says the CDS deserves all the censorship. The foundation of the motion of censure is even an inglory effort of the CDS to seek to be who it is not. As if someone took seriously that the CDS was the true spokesperson for union struggles, who always fought, who could indeed be the champion of public investment, who always diabolized, and who could even be the guardian of the National Health Service, against whom he voted, overthrowing the government that launched it and who persists in wanting to destroy. Can the change go further? Of course! And so we've gone further. We have even gone beyond the joint positions we signed in November 2015. In November 2015, we had not been able to assume the commitment that there should be wage updates in the public service and this year it was possible to take a first step towards wage updates in the public service. It was not possible to accept the commitment to extraordinary increases in pensions and, fortunately, we were able to make two extraordinary increases in lower pensions. There had been no commitments on the reduction of social passes and, from April, there will be a significant reduction in social passes. Yes, we can go further, there is still time to go further and we must continue to work further. When Mr João Oliveira asks me about labour legislation, there is a good example where we can go further. And when I wonder who should agree with whom, the question I am asking is: but what is the reason for voting against a government bill that, firstly, reduces the grounds for resorting to the term contract, no longer considering being young seeking the first job or long-term unemployed as grounds for the term contract? Is this proposal fair or not fair?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u168	If that's all, fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u169	A proposal for a law which, secondly, reduces the possibility of renewal of future contracts. Is it fair or not fair? Fair enough! A bill which, thirdly, reduces the time of each period of the contract in time. Is it fair or not fair? A proposal for a law which, fourthly, penalises companies who abuse the contract in the long term. Is it fair or not fair? What the CFP should do was to vote in favour of this bill because it is a useful tool for combating job insecurity, which must be combated. As far as health is concerned, he knows our proposal for a Basics Act and I am sure that it will be possible to pass a basic law that corresponds to the majority of the defenders of the National Health Service in this House. As for ADSE, it is indisputable that the State has to do what it has to do, which is to defend the interests of the beneficiaries, in particular by recovering from the privates what they abusively charged to the beneficiaries of ADSE and which must be returned to the system. Finally, with regard to TTCs, as I have already had the opportunity to say, we will assess this matter at the moment, which is when the concession contract ends in 2020. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, regarding ADSE, had already had an opportunity to answer. But as far as teachers are concerned, I would like to say the following: the government never sits with anyone — as you know, in fact, with its own experience — in an irreducible position. And neither will we sit with the teachers' union in an irreducible position. It is, in fact, because we are not in an irreducible position that, although we have never proposed the recovery of the past time, we have taken a step and proposed and legislated in order to give all teachers a recovery of service time of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. Unfortunately, until now, we have always found an irreducible union position, which we regret. The hope we have is that when we sit at the table, the unions will present a proposal that will allow us to move forward in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u170	Mr Prime Minister, as I have already reported, in this second round there are 15 Members registered for requests for clarification to which the Government, according to the Bureau, will respond together. To that end, Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u171	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask a question about an area in which everything has failed in this government: security. You've failed everything, everything, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, in response to my party leader, came here to ask what I would do in your place. Mr Prime Minister, if I were you — and, above all, if I had been Minister of Internal Administration and Minister of Justice as you were — after the fires, after Tankos, after the theft of PSP weapons and daily riots in prisons, I resigned myself, Prime Minister. And that's why you have this motion of censure. And if you do not understand why you have the motion of censure, that is the main reason why you should even be censored. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to tell you that, in a fundamental area such as security, about which, moreover, I did not say a single word, neither in speech nor in answers, the professionals in this area are desperate. They despair because they were deceived, they despair because they are demotivated, they despair especially because they do not have a single word of solidarity on their part. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three very specific questions: when is it time to comply with court decisions on the special service supplement? For when is the increase in effectiveness and means for security forces? For when was the granting of the risk allowance, which, a year and eighteen days ago, with the votes in favour of all the parliamentary groups represented here, approved? Mr Prime Minister, in principle, when can the Portuguese expect anything from you and your government on security? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u172	For a request for clarification, you have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u173	Mr President, Prime Minister, this motion of censure is a short-lived object because it has already been born defeated. But it is also a demonstration of short views. It is enough to see that the word 'education' does not appear once in this motion of censure. [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for the results, what the PS Government shows, also in education, are results. The early abandonment rate in education and training reached a historic minimum in 2018. We need to do more, but we've made a lot of progress. Failure rates have decreased by 25 % in the last two years, and betting on the quality of education. We need to do more, but we've made a lot of progress. And we also made a lot of progress because we've posted on professionals. With the PSD and CDS government, only teachers were less than 26 000 in public school. With this government, we already have more 7700 teachers linked than in 2015, more 730 specialist technicians, more 200 psychologists and more 2500 operational assistants. We need to do more, but we've made a lot of progress. But, Prime Minister, it is important to emphasize that this is not about the past, nor is it just about the present, that is about the future. This is about the risk that the country runs back into being ruled by the CDS and the PSD. We're talking about the risk of going back because the country needs to protect what you've already been able to do. The radicalism of the CDS is not a mere figure of rhetoric. The radicalism of the CDS came to create space in photography for other radicalisms that go around. What is your determination, Prime Minister, to continue to work for the development of the country, for a decent society, in view of this attempt to consolidate radicalisms, small radicalisms, which is, after all, the political significance of this motion of censure? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u174	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u175	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to the theory, something miraculous, that the increase in tax burden has nothing to do with taxes — in fact, I have already heard Minister Mário Centeno say the same thing. I know that Mr. Prime Minister has great ability to develop these theories, but I would still like to leave you a few questions that are almost a test. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to know what the location was during his election campaign, where the PS promised tax burden at record levels, where it promised to put the tax burden at its maximum level. I would like to know when, during the election campaign, Mr. Prime Minister has been promising this. And I would also like to know whether it was true that Mr. Prime Minister promised several times to reduce the tax burden during the period of this government and, more specifically, in 2017. And now, to realize that we're not just talking about a number, we're talking about concrete things, I'd like to know whether or not this government has increased gas oil, increased gasoline, increased IRC (tax on corporate income), increased the ISV (vehicle tax) several times, increased the IUC (single circulation tax) several times, increased tobacco and alcohol tax, created the AIMI (additional to municipal property tax), created the tax on sugar drinks and created the carbon rate. Finally, I would like to know whether or not it is true that every time a Portuguese fills the deposit of his gas oil car, he pays at least 8 € tax. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u176	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u177	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have already noticed that the motion of censure on the CDS is not to take seriously. The CDS talks about the difficulties of the National Health Service and the lack of professionals. Last week, in the Hospital Center of the West ( CHO ), they were linked under the Special Regularization Program of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), 240 workers, essential for the functioning of the SNS. How did the CDS vote? Against the regularization of these deficiencies! We are talking about public school and we know about the difficulties of public school. There are hundreds of specialized education technicians who accompany children with special needs and who are waiting for the government to comply with their regularization. In the Block, we are afraid of commitment and have demanded that they recognize a contract. The CDS voted against the integration of these technicians into schools! The concern of the CDS with workers is a joke. We have proposed the limitation of the temporary work of contracts over time. How did the CDS vote? Against! We approved the right of the worker's opposition not to be transferred, as one thing, to another company. How did the CDS vote? Against! We passed a law to combat harassment at work. The CDS voted for that law? Don't! Of course not! How did the CDS vote on the increase in pensions? Against! How did the CDS vote on the end of the cut in unemployment benefit? Against! And even the law that we passed at the beginning of this legislature to combat forced labour — forced work in agriculture and construction — got the vote against the CDS. The concern of the CDS with strikes and mobilizations is a joke. But, Prime Minister, there is much to be done in this legislature, and I wanted to ask you about it. The CDS was against PREVPAP, but not the government. We're in February. How long does the PIMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) go to wait for Minister Mário Centeno to unlock the money to be hired? And the lovers of social security, eight months ago with positive opinions, how long will they wait? Mr. Prime Minister criticized the administration of RTP for its inability to solve the problem of outsourcing deficiencies. But it was the government who, in the evaluation committees, twice led the integration of precarious workers of RTP into outsourcing. I ask you, Prime Minister: will you reverse that decision? Mr Prime Minister, as regards the 700 000 employees per shift, the new law has been waiting for the Commission for many months. Will the PS and the government join the CDS to lead the left proposals, or will they join the left to respond to these workers? With regard to collective bargaining, will the government join the left against employer blackmail, or will it join the CDS to maintain the expiry that comes from the Right Work Code? And as for dismissals, will you join the CDS to keep cutting the CDS in compensation, or will you join the left to reverse them? Mr. Prime Minister, we have half a year to the end of the legislature, but we have a lot of work to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u178	For a request for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, your government imposed the financial garrison and failed, failed in Portuguese health. It failed to invest and modernize health services. You have failed the professionals, who are unhappy and exhausted and with whom you cannot talk. It failed the patients, who see a SNS working much worse. You have repeated that you will open 100 USF (family health units) until the end of the Legislature, but have opened much less than in the time of the troika and the reform of primary health care is compromised. [[Pause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I'm talking to you, yes,! I don't know if you're listening to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u180	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u181	Are you going to continue, or not, to prevent moving from model A units to model B units? Will it force the opening of unfinished units, without physical and operational conditions to care for patients, as recently happened in Odivelas, only to "make the number" of the openings? What will you do to make primary health care a priority in Portuguese health after all? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u182	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u183	Mr President, Prime Minister : Malta, Latvia, Ireland, Slovenia, Estonia, Cyprus, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Austria, Netherlands, Spain, Finland and Greece. What these countries have in common is that everyone has grown more than Portugal last year. Therefore, Prime Minister, failed act is the "miracle" of socialist governance. So I ask you: if it were the results of your governance in the best of situations, why do the Portuguese have to trust you to rule when the times are more difficult? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u184	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u185	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are 800 000 public servants who voluntarily discount 3, 5 % of their salary for ADSE. They pay to have the freedom to choose a private health provider, if they understand. But ADSE, protected by finance and health, does not, since October, meet with these private providers, with which it maintains several disputes. It is up to you to make a definite choice: either join the Block, to empty ADSE, and the PCP, to request the services of the private sector with a law of the PREC (the ongoing revolutionary process) ; or defend the beneficiaries and their freedom of choice and brand negotiations with transparency. What's your choice, Prime Minister? The interests of the beneficiaries or the interests of the left? Or just a failed act? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u186	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u187	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if there is an area where your government has failed in the railway. EUR 2000 million was promised in investment and up to now 5 % were executed according to the infrastructure in Portugal. The examples of failures are many. You failed on the West Line, which should have been in operation and electrified since the last quarter of 2017, but still not even launched the public contest for the work—that is, you have two years of delay. He failed the electrification of the Douro Line, in the section between Marco de Canaveses and Peso da Régua, which was to be completed at the end of 2019, but only at the end of 2018 was launched the contest for the previous study, the environmental impact study and the project of the work of electrification – that is, it is with a year and a half of delay. It failed to elect the Algarve Line, whose construction works were to be started in the second quarter of 2019, but only in April 2018 was the previous study, the environmental impact study and the implementation project for the line's electrification—that is, it has a year's delay. It failed in the connection between Elvas and the border, which should have been completed since the beginning of 2018. Only now at the beginning of 2019 was the project review completed — that is, it has two years of delay. Your government is unable to fulfill what it promises. Tell me when you're going to finish these works. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u188	For a request for clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u189	Mr President, Prime Minister, 15 days ago, I said here in Parliament that the next day I was going to present proposals with concrete measures for the informal caregiver, promised more than three years ago. The Prime Minister said and the country waited. It took more than one week to get to know the government's non-proposal. The diploma presented is limited to announcing what it says it will do in subsequent diplomas. Recognition of the informal caregiver? Support measures? Tax benefits? Measures that promote reconciliation between professional activity and care? Subsidy to the informal caregiver? All of this, according to your diploma, says that it will be carried out in its own diploma in a timely manner. The government announces that the government proposes that the government decide what the government will do. Do you have Mr. Prime Minister the notion that your government is doing the most serious and serious business in the country? Does the Prime Minister have the notion that people can believe in themselves at the moment is the biggest problem of the government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u190	For a request for clarification, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u191	Mr President, Prime Minister, the implementation of the funds for the agricultural sector is only 35 % for young farmers and in forest measures, the country goes to the third consecutive year of drought and the Government has no word, a solution, a strategy. It is three years ago that millions have been announced for the National Regadio Plan, which has barely come out of paper, and investment in the public regadium is only 16 %. There are 30,000 farmers waiting for a response to their projects, of which more than 8,000 are young. The government has been away from the rural world for three years and has failed in an essential sector for the country. What answer does the Prime Minister have today to give these Portuguese? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u192	For a request for clarification, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u193	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, two hours of debate and justice said nothing. The last OECD report, in part where its Government has not censured, of course, notes that Portugal is stagnant in the fight against corruption and, worse, has invested in its prevention and combat. Failed acts, Prime Minister, are investigations stopped at the PJ ( Judicial Police ). Failing acts, Prime Minister, are the stagnant craftsmanships. Failed acts, Prime Minister, are accusations that don't leave the place. I ask you two very direct questions, Prime Minister : what is the number of inspectors entering the PJ for the next five years, in addition to the 120 that the PSD/CDS government has opened, and when is the implementation of technical advice with the Public Prosecutor that the CDS has proposed for more than one year and that it takes time to leave? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u194	For a request for clarification, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u195	Mr President, Prime Minister, your Government has created expectations for Portuguese in general and teachers in particular. As for the teachers, he promised to negotiate the recovery of service time and ignored the 2018 State Budget unscrupulously. It was a missed opportunity, cheated the teachers. Mr. Prime Minister, schools, students and families need peace of mind. He announced this week a negotiating meeting on 25 February. Are you going to let the teachers go again? Is it another simulation? Or is that what it's about to accomplish? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u196	Mr Álvaro Castelo Branco, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u197	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a year ago, you proclaimed that decentralization should be done with good sense and consensus. Consensus is exactly the opposite of what has happened throughout this process. So far, 105 Portuguese municipalities have refused to exercise any new competences. As far as common sense is concerned, I ask the Prime Minister for the Decentralisation Fund which, of such a bad morning, has been plunged into this House even by its coalition partners. What good sense is this that it intends to transfer new competences to municipalities without being allocated the funds necessary for their exercise? Mr Prime Minister, after all, the great reform of the state is to transfer to the municipalities tasks that the central State does not want to exercise, is it another chapter in the policy of captivity, this time at the expense of the municipalities? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u198	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u199	Mr President, Prime Minister, the failure of the Government is even more serious when there are Community funds available that you are unable to execute. Let's start with the lack of investment in people. Vocational training with funds from the European Social Fund — in three years, its Government has implemented less EUR 1870 million than it has budgeted. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government is also failing sharply in Portugal 2020. Comparing the same period of QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework), they are less than 10 % of implementation. Mr. Prime Minister, the truth is very hard. It is that in 2014 and 2015 Portugal was first in the implementation of the funds in absolute terms; in 2018, with its Government, Portugal was completely exceeded by three countries and fell to seventh place as a percentage of the value executed. How do you explain that? Mr. Prime Minister, you may have remodeled the government, which cannot be remodeling the truth of the numbers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u200	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u201	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is my honour to ask the last question of my Parliamentary Group in this round. It is a question that has to do with respect, or rather with the lack of respect that the Government has for this House. Mr Prime Minister, your Government has already supported the end of the unanimity rule in the creation of taxes at European level. on this bench, we do not want Portugal to lose its right to veto the creation of taxes, but, above all, we do not accept that the Minister of Finance will go to Brussels to bind the Portuguese State without passing through Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u203	I ask you, when does the Minister of Finance finally come to this House to give an explanation? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u204	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u205	Mr President, on the questions put by Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to add to the extensive list of measures with which he has exemplified what we have done in education three measures which I think are essential to democratization and success in school. Firstly, and that was the most important reform that we have done, it is curriculum flexibility, which is fundamental to democratization and above all to prepare the current generation for the uncertainties of the future in which they will live. Secondly, we have eliminated discriminatory obstacles to those attending vocational education in access to higher education. Thirdly, I am also referring to the fact that we have launched a national school housing programme, which is an effective guarantee of democratization in access to higher education. Mr Soeiro, the subject of labour legislation is a subject on which we all know what we are going to do and what we are not going to do. That is what we agreed on, our position is known, your position is known and, indeed, it is not coincidental. As for what we are going to do, that is what is contained in the proposed law in the Assembly of the Republic, which urgently needs to be approved for the fight against precariousness. As for PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ), we will execute it, as we always commit ourselves. That's why we approved him and we've come to execute him. Then there is an extensive list of questions put by the honourable Members. Members of the CDS-PP. First of all, Mr Nuno Magalhães asked what we will do about security, i.e. the payment of the supplements to the security forces that are beneficiaries. They will be restored in 2019 and then the decision of the STA ( Supreme Administrative Court ) will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u206	No, no! Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u207	1350 elements were admitted to the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the PSP ( Public Security Police ) in 2018, more than any year of the previous legislation. Mrs Cecilia Meireles took up the subject of the tax burden. Mrs Deputy, no one said it has anything to do with taxes, what we say is that the three tenths of the increase in the tax burden are explained not by the increase in taxes, but by the dynamic of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u208	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u209	If you see what the incidence of tax growth is, you'll find it's exactly what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u210	They mix taxes with social security contributions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u211	This is the case, Mrs Deputies, because the increase in employment and wages has significantly increased the income of social security. Business dynamics have increased IRC's revenue ( corporate income tax ) without increasing IRC. As you know, in no way do we increase VAT (tax on value added) ; on the contrary, we have lowered the VAT on restoration, even against the will of the CDS. But the truth is, VAT revenue has increased. Why has it increased if we do not extend the incidence or increase the rate? The revenue increases because, fortunately, the improvement of Portuguese income has allowed for an increase in domestic demand, the increase in tourism has increased domestic demand and all this has allowed for an increase in VAT revenue. In other words, the tax burden does not rise for bad reasons, the tax burden has risen for good reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u212	For good reasons? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u213	That is why, Mrs Deputy, is that the CDS systematically devalues what is essential, which is the great gain we have gained for Portuguese families in reducing that tax which is most relevant to them, which is the labour income tax. [[CDS-PP protests.]] There is indeed an option, and that is why the Portuguese are going to pay less than EUR 1 billion of IRS this year than they paid when you were State Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u214	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u215	It represents less than EUR 1000 million than when the CDS was in government. This means concrete things. Do you know how much, this year, a couple in which the two elements have a income of 1000 € each, with two children, will pay less than IRS than what you paid when Mrs Cristian Assumption was Minister and support the budgets? You're going to pay less than 18, 3 %, Mrs. Deputy! [[CDS-PP protests.]] You like graphics very much, so I show you a chart on what you're going to pay less, this year, a couple's family with 1000 euros of income each and with two children: you're going to pay less this year than you would pay when you were government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members then asked multiple questions about... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u216	I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen to keep quiet. The debate is already advanced and it is natural that we are all tired. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u217	As for the question about the Judiciary Police, 148 new judicial police inspectors will come in, 180 prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the legal regime of the Central Registry of Effective Beneficiaries (RCBE) is entering into operation and will improve the conditions for combating corruption. There have also been a number of questions on the implementation of funds, but the fact is that, for example in the field of agriculture, we have, in the area of rural development in the continent at the moment, 53 % already implemented and 85 % already committed. So we're running and we're doing it. Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca spoke about the regádio. As regards the regadio, which had remained outside the RDP ( Rural Development Programme 2020 ), we will have, thanks to our negotiation with the European Investment Bank, a project for 90 000 hectares of irrigation. As for the informal caregiver, as Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia well knows, what was agreed and is approved in the State Budget is the launch of a pilot project this year. That is what we are going to do, what we are going to do, implementing the State budget. The gentlemen. Members would also like to mention the comparison of our rate of implementation of Community funds with that of other European countries. They use a formula, which is very interesting, which is the sum of absolute amounts, as if we all received the same. Well, obviously what we have to compare... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, but what we have to compare is the percentage of implementation of each of your own programme. What country now has a higher rate of implementation of its own programme? It is Portugal, with 28, 7 % of the implementation rate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u218	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u219	As for Ferrovia 2020, the programme that we created in 2016, the implementation rate is not 5 %. at present, the implementation rate is 40 %, between work already completed, work already awarded, work already in tender.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u220	It's got to be seen on the referee!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u221	in this set, there are 40 % implementation in Portugal 2020. The penultimate question has to do with the dynamics of economic growth. The best criterion I know about the performance of an economy within the euro area has to do with the average of the area in which we are comparing. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Now the reality is that from 2000 to 2016 Portugal grew systematically below the European average and the first two years in which it grew above the European average were 2017 and 2018. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mr President, do you know what will be the third year in which we are going to grow above the European average? This year is 2019. It is the third year in which we will converge with the European Union! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u222	What about GDP per capita? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u223	So, if we're growing above average, it's because we're growing more than the whole euro area. And we are achieving this in a framework that needs to be taken into account: if we compare the fiscal consolidation effort being made in Portugal with those of those countries that are growing above us, the truth is that we are achieving a reduction of 4, 28 and they of 0, 39. When we compare the evolution of debt in Portugal with the whole of these countries, we see that we are reducing 48 % of debt and they 11 %! Mr. Member, what is relevant to the... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Sir, be patient and listen! I know what I'm saying is not going to meet your dreams, but if you're patient to hear what's in the last two tables I have to show you, you'll see that you can still have an extra dose of unhappiness! [[Laughing.]] Be prepared, because it is the following: what is truly important about this dynamic is to know what drives it. In fact, Mr President, if we compare Portugal with these countries, what we see is that in these years gross fixed capital formation has grown 11, 7 % in Portugal, while in these countries 6 % has grown and private investment in Portugal is increasing 20 %, while in these countries it is increasing 12 %, which means that we are making an investment effort that will allow us to grow more. The main difference is this: in Portugal the unemployment rate decreased by 30 % and in these countries the unemployment rate decreased by 20 %. That is, we are growing more than the average of all, we are investing more than those who grow more than we are, we are reducing more debt, we are consolidating the Budget more and, above all, reducing more unemployment than those who are growing more than we are. That is to say, we are on a healthy path, and it is this path that we must be able to maintain so that we do not return to the path of VV governments. For instance, where none of this happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I know that the CDS has chosen the issue of European taxes as, finally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u224	To give a sovereign face!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u225	...the simplistic argument for the European campaign. But you have to tell Portuguese and Portuguese companies what your position really means. Of course — I think it is consensual for all of us! — it is crucial for Portugal that cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy cannot be sacrificed in the next multiannual financial framework. In the next multiannual financial framework, the Union will have less revenue from the UK's exit and will have new expenditure in the field of science, in the area of combating terrorism, in the area of defence, and that means allocating other resources. Now, if we have less revenue and more expenditure to allocate resources, we can basically only maintain what we do not accept to sacrifice if we increase the resources of the European Union. The resources of the European Union can increase by two ways: increasing transfers of States, i.e. at the expense of Portuguese taxpayers; or increasing the European Union's own resources. The European Union's own resources are what we are discussing here, through the creation of European taxes. And I ask the following question: will these European taxes affect our small and medium-sized enterprises or will they affect large transnational enterprises, which produce wealth in Portugal and pay taxes in other countries that offer themselves as free zones within the framework of the European Union, or even the large digital multinationals who don't even pay any taxes in Europe?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u226	Answer the question of unanimity!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u227	What I say is this: in order to ensure Portuguese companies loyalty in competition with regard to companies that do not pay taxes here, in order to ensure tax justice for all Portuguese people, we must have European taxes which tax these incomes which are not taxed anywhere in Europe or which are, above all, not taxed in Portugal, but which have to be and which must come to Portugal in the form of transfers from the budget of the European Union! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u228	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u229	I conclude, Mr. President. Mr President, what you are saying here about unanimity...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u230	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u231	Mr President, unanimity is simply to ensure that countries that I will not appoint here, but that we all know what they are and who offer themselves to play the role of free zone in Europe... I am not willing to sacrifice the interests of the Portuguese economy and the Portuguese taxpayers to protect these free zones that exist in central and northern Europe. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That's not what I'm available for! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u232	As for family health units, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a period of intervention. Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u234	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputies and Mr. Members: The CDS censures this government because it says that it is exhausted, that it creates problems and that it is unable to find solutions, the most shocking case being what is going on in health. We were very curious and soon we looked for that part of the text where the CDS criticises the reducing vision that the government and the parties of the regime have of health, in which it bets itself on the reaction rather than on prevention. We didn't find her! Since diabetes has risen 40% in recent years and a quarter of the people who die in hospitals have this disease, we are still looking for that part in the text in which the CDS censures the government for not betting on tax and sensitization policies, deterring excessive salt, sugar or processed meat consumption, avoiding overcrowded diseases and hospitals. We didn't find that part either! We have also been looking for where the CDS condemns the government for total permissiveness to companies that destroy ecosystems and contaminate the air we breathe and the water we drink, such as Celtejo, the National Steel or the many illegal pigicultures to operate in the country. Nothing! We have also sought, in the motion of censure, that part in which the CDS speaks of the government's attitude towards the biggest crisis we live in: climate change. Zero! But finally, the CDS was able to censor the government on agriculture. So much to censor and honestly we can't understand why this part is. Capulas Santos is the best Minister of Agriculture that the CDS has ever had! [[Laughing.]] It is transforming Alentejo into a superintensive olive tree, or massifying kinetic tourism, exponentially increases the export of live animals every year, violating European regulations, and it is brilliant to waste public money in support of the meat and milk industry. And more: like the CDS, it despises organic farming. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u235	This is no joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u236	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much more that unites PS and CDS than what separates them. It's not the government that's exhausted, it's the regime that's broken. The non-compliant parties converge in the sharpening of the country's structural problems and show themselves unable to find solutions to the challenges and values of the 21st century, captured by their ideologies and corporate interests. The NAP argues that another way is needed in the country, but not in the low-responsive manner as the CDS proposes today, with early elections. The country needs government stability and from here to mid-year Portuguese and Portuguese will be called to make choices, to choose a project that guarantees an effective social state, an economy based on responsible management of public finances and with a long-term strategic vision that prioritizes the fight against climate change. There is, but it's courage for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u237	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u238	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: The CDS motion of censure that we are debating today was born on Friday and it didn't even come alive on Saturday. This is, in fact, a motion of censure to the government, but it does not really address the government. The real objective of this motion of censure of the CDS is not to overthrow the government. The objective of the CDS is to mark territory on the right. The recipient of this motion of censure is not the Government, it is mainly the PSD and accessoryly the newborn Alliance, born of the same strain and aged in the same cellars! [[PS laughter.]] This is the motion of censure that the PSD could present, but does not want, and that Dr. Santana Lopes would like to present, but cannot! [[PS laughter.]] The country reacted to the indifference that is due to an inconsequential initiative, but the PSD launched itself in a fascinating internal debate between Prof. David Justino and commentator Marques Mendes on the question of knowing who in the PSD is playing an idiot! [[PS laughter.]] And as long as the PSD talks about who's playing an idiot, the CDS comes forward and doesn't leave their credits out of hand. [[Rice and applause from the PCP, the PS, the BE and the Greens.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the speech that the CDS brings to this debate today is recurrent and predictable. When confronted with its heavy responsibilities for the situation to which the Government to which it belonged brought the country, the CDS says that it received the country in bankruptcy, forgetting that it supported, one by one, all the measures that led the country to the state to which it arrived...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u239	Exactly [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u240	... and that if it had continued in the government beyond 2015, the path would not be the recovery of rights and incomes, but the continuation of cuts, the increase of poverty and the emphasis on inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u242	When, for our part, we criticize the PS government for what it has not done and could have done good and for what it has done and should not have done wrong, the CDS tells us that responsibility is ours because we approved the Budgets. Yes, we have approved Budgets which have resulted in significant improvements to the living conditions of the Portuguese people and which, despite shortcomings we have always pointed out, have had positive effects on the Portuguese economy and have denied the catastrophic forecasts of the PSD and the CDS. And we have criticised, without tapestry, positions taken by the government over these three and a half years, which, significantly, have always had the agreement of the PSD and the CDS. There is an essential difference between the PCP and the CDS in relation to government policy: the PCP has converged with the PS government in all that it has done well; the CDS has converged with the PS government in all that it has done wrong,... [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] ... and has always been with the PS when it was about preventing the approval of PCP proposals that would have a positive impact on workers and the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u244	Yes, sir. Members, we have reason to criticize the government, but these are not the reasons of the CDS. Where was the oppositionist rage of the CDS when he gave his hand to the government and the PS to keep the tolls in the SCUT (no cost to the users)? And to oppose the phased elimination of propins in public higher education? And to prevent the repeal of the most serious standards of labour law? And to maintain the expiry of the collective contract? And to prevent the reversal of public-private partnerships? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And to prevent the State from regaining control of TTCs? And to prevent the increase of the minimum wage to 650€? And to prevent the fair exploitation of long-contributory careers? And to prevent the replacement of the extinct fragesias by the PSD/CDS government? Continuation of PSD and CDS-PP protests. And to pass a law on access to metadata, which is clearly unconstitutional? And to prevent the elimination of the tips of teaching Portuguese abroad? And to bury public resources, to cover up the financial hole of BANIF (Fonchal International Bank ) and hand it over to Santander? And to accept all the European Union's demands that prevent national development? We could continue with this enumeration to show that the CDS is poorly appreciated and that for the CDS, what is a reason for censorship is, for us, a cause for pride. The CFP is proud to have contributed decisively to halting the policy of impoverishment and the final draft of rights which the CSD intended to continue from the Government. Continuation of PSD protests. The PCP does not shut down its criticism of the PS government, but unlike the CDS, it does not want the country to go back. The advances that have occurred in these three and a half years cannot go back, on the contrary. We must move forward: we must move forward in public investment; we must move forward against the taxes of Brussels; we must move forward in the replacement and conquest of rights by workers and the people. To consolidate and continue progress, the Portuguese people can count on the CFP. With the CDS will certainly not count! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u245	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes spoke for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is before this House that the Prime Minister, on behalf of his Government, responds politically. Moreover, when presenting the Government Programme in December 2015, the Prime Minister said that it was with a « position of dialogue and commitment » that would appear before this House. He simulated humility and even respect that he never realized. We know today that he did not refer to the representatives of all Portuguese and that he cares only those representatives who allowed him to be in power and maintain power. These, the PCP, the Left Block and the Green Green Ecology Party, vigorously applaud, in the same days, what they once rejected and pretend, in the unclean days, that nothing has to do with this government, because it is necessary to dispute votes. So, there, the country, after all, it's not going so well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u247	This is the Prime Minister's government which, when it is here to account for its work, because here it accounts for all Portuguese and not only the elected voters, has no role in introducing any maneuver that diverts attention from their government failures. Do it because the idea of disrespect by this organ is indifferent to you. What this Prime Minister does not seem to understand is that it is not the PSD that disrespects, when he does these numbers and buys with successful manipulations, it is not even the PSD that is outraged, when he tries to rewrite the story with the greatest disgust, disrespect and outrage the Portuguese when he lies, denying that they inherited a country to grow, in 2015, and does it constantly. [[PS protests.]] The indignation that matters is not that of the PSD, it is that of the Portuguese, because it was from the Portuguese that the sacrifice of saving the country from the socialist bankruptcy and there is no debate in which it is not necessary to restore the truth, because here they are unable to assume responsibility for what they have done. [[PSD applause.]] If they are unable to live with the discomfort that this generates you, they have the decency and the smell of not attributing the blame to whom you were here to solve the problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u248	This is the government that has chosen to say that it has turned the page of austerity and has repeatedly repeated it in search of a narrative to taste. This is the government that has come to promise the recovery of income and that has applied the highest tax burden of ever in taxes that are equal to all, for those who can afford and for those who cannot pay, with large pumping down the fuels for, with the other hand, increasing the carbon rate. It is the government that discriminates between public officials and private officials, playing electorally with inequality instead of fighting, who promised everyone in return for social peace that would suit the narrative, and then blame and defamation teachers, nurses, prison guards, judicial officials, from a long list, for demanding the fulfillment of those promises. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u249	It is the government of such a different time that even the meaning of a strike manipulates. In all the previous government, when there were, in fact, fewer strikes, they said they were'social discontent'. For, today, they are the fruit of better expectations of life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u251	This is the government who wanted to win votes at 35 hours, without dealing with the reinforcement of staff that this involved, for lack of responsibility, and who did not want to know about the chaos that this would generate in the public services and in the lives of Portuguese. It is the government of a country with a new history, in which there is no problem of sustainability in social security and it is changing pension assignments for the future, because it does not cost votes now and who comes after it settles. It is the government of quality of life, in which the State takes two years to process the pension of Portuguese immigrants. It is the government that turned the austerity page but it takes more than a year to make the VAT returns (value added tax) to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) in a country where about 40% of them are at risk of bankruptcy. It is the sovereignty of those who boast to have fought precariously and was denied by the INE (National Institute of Statistics ). The number of precariouss today has the highest value since 2011. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u252	They've got a job!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u253	This is the government that calls for the affirmation of the interior and the decentralization, but, when allocating money, what counts are not the Portuguese, they are the voters, and Lisbon receives by passenger the double of the port and the triple of the rest of the country. [[PSD applause.]] It is the government in which units are created for the exploitation of the interior, in which the director resigns himself for lack of support and political commitment from a government that leaves the proposals in the drawer to combat a problem that only needs to be propagated. This is the government who sees as a whim the effort that health insurance represents for Portuguese families who cannot risk a National Health Service without response in good time. It is the government that tries to distract us when the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education announces the end of the tips by lying, but does not distract us enough not to notice that in this same higher education, in the time they turned the page of austerity, the scholarships were back late at the time of paying the students, the value of the average scholarship dropped and the residences are far too far from being sufficient, as is understood in the country that turned the page of austerity! [[PSD applause.]] It is the government of large investments, which spends an entire legislature announcing these five new hospitals and ends the legislature without any hospitals. Only in 2018, it left 164 million euros for running public investment for health. They left almost 50% of what they propagated in their pocket. It is the government that did not learn anything from the « party» in the School Park, which announces works that never happen, perhaps because in the public investment that boasted for education, only in 2018 left to run 68 %. in this public investment profile only in 2018, in justice, left 64, 6 % to execute; in the environment, agriculture, forests and rural development did not reach even 40% of what it had announced; in planning and infrastructure executed half and multiplied the announcements of nothing to sell the image of former Minister Pedro Marques. [[PSD applause.]] It is the government that prepares the budgets for social communication to say that it has increased investment and that this country lives a new time, to please the voters, knowing that when it comes to translating this into reality for the Portuguese, it will simply not meet even half. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] But it doesn't matter, because the financial execution data, that is, what they really use, don't give newspaper covers. The government takes the future and propaganda is made. It is a new time when friends do not have to comply with rules to occupy positions and workers who report lack of maintenance on trains are away. It is a new time when people disagree, such as in INFARMED (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), because whoever gets mixed up with PS, takes. After all, it's not such a young time! [[PSD applause.]] It is a time when leaders of the National Civil Protection Authority are replaced with the socialist criterion. When she fails sharply, the government pretends to have nothing to do with it. These are the new times in a country where weapons are stolen in military facilities and the government talks about political empolation; they are the times of the end of the difficulties, when people die in October because the government has learned nothing from the failures of July — it is the government that fails before, during and after the tragedy — it is the times when medical emergency helicopters fall and nobody has responsibilities, when train engines are falling in progress, but what matters is that we have a Prime Minister who believes the cows are flying. [[PSD applause.]] This is the good news government, in which the Prime Minister goes on vacation when reality is so serious that it does not support half-truths. This is the story of Prime Minister António Costa, who was playing the game of the "little boy" convinced that people would pay so much for the socialist bankruptcy that they would forget their leaders and punish the Rabbit Pass Government for rescuing the country. The story of a government that never imagined it would be possible to tell people, honestly, what awaits them and, together with them, to save the country and put it back on the grow. [[PSD applause.]] This is the story of a Prime Minister who, in fact, distinguishes between Portuguese and voters, and that's why he's just hiding...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u254	Hidden? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u255	...to the convention you had on Saturday, to escape the encounter with the Portuguese who are not doing their best to behave as good voters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u256	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u257	For the PSD, competence in governance is not measured by populism of what is said, but by the courage and seriousness of facing the problems and putting into practice the solutions. As the President of the PSD, Dr. Rui Rio, the Portuguese will choose at every moment those who inspire them more confidence based on the credibility they give them. [[PS protests.]] Perhaps this Prime Minister never understands that the value of truth demonstrates respect and wins respect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u258	But the Portuguese understood it in the last elections and will understand it again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u259	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u260	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The CDS-PP went to the pocket, looked at the calendar and noticed that in 2019 there are elections. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Then he looked at his right in the plenary, saw the state in which the PSD is and thought: « There is room to dispute a right that is in fragmentation». This is the story of this motion of censure. There is nothing more to tell about this motion of censure! Of course there was a difficulty for the CDS-PP : it was not possible to say that he was coming to what was coming and therefore had to fill the text with something that was not only this party dispute with the PSD, nor that he had to resort to the most blatant hypocrisy. When we voted, already in this legislature, a project of the Left Block to revoke diplomas from the previous government that dictated the closure of hospitals' valences and the closure of 11 emergency services, how did the CDS-PP vote, which now speaks of the National Health Service? He voted against, defended the closure of the emergency services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u261	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u262	When was the creation of a multi-annual investment plan for SNS voted, how did the CDS-PP vote? He didn't care much, he abstained! Investment wasn't a big deal to worry about! [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] When a left block project was discussed to ensure access to the specialty to all doctors and allow the additional training of doctors in the National Health Service, how did the CDS-PP vote? He voted against! They didn't care about doctors in the National Health Service, they weren't exactly a concern! When we discussed, in the State Budget for 2019, proposals from the Left Block to ensure the full accounting of the career time of TSDT (higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians) for the transition to the new career and nursing professionals for the progression in the current career, how did the CDS-PP, which has spoken so much about these professionals, voted? Stay away from me! After all, when it comes to voting, neither technicians nor nurses are very interested in CDS-PP. When we discussed a bill presented by the Left Block to end the non-emergency transport payment for patients who need it, how did the CDS-PP vote? He voted against, obviously! In practice, when the time comes for the vote, the CDS-PP rejects defending the National Health Service, professionals and users. More valuable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, censor yourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u264	What, then, is left of this debate? The pre-electional competition between the CDS and the PSD and the devastated defense of economic groups in the area of health. In blackmailing about ADSE, the CDS takes advantage of a motion of censure to stand next to the blackmail of anyone who wants to collect whatever he wants, as he wants and without supervision. In the complaint of the economic groups, the CDS-PP takes advantage of the motion of censure to stand next to the Mello Group, so that it wanted more EUR 20 million per year to continue a PPP in Braga. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP, do this: professionals will not be deceived by those who cut their wages, users will not be deceived by those who cut their pensions and doubled the moderate rates and the SNS will not be instrumentalized by wars within a right in decomposition, much less will be privatized by Mr. Members or deliver to friends, as if it were any Atlantic Pavilion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u265	Don't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u266	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau no longer registers. I note that the parliamentary groups that still have time are PSD, PS and CDS-PP, and the CDS-PP and the Government will speak in the closing period and the PSD has already spoken in this period. Therefore, I expect the PS or CDS to register, otherwise, we pass directly to the closing period. In fact, the PSD can also register, as it is evident, since it still has time. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been going on for some time and I will therefore not hesitate to proceed to the vote if there are no entries. The Bureau was informed that Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS intends to sign up for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u267	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The CDS presents to us today a motion of censure to the Government. However, the Portuguese asked themselves: where was the censorship of the CDS when the PSD/CDS government cut around EUR 1300 million in Portuguese health and, in fact, sought to dismantle the SNS? In fact, I had already promised it at the time of the approval of the Arlindo Carvalho Basics Act in 1990. Just look at the speech of then. Or is the CDS censoring the replacement of these EUR 1300 million by the PS government? Mrs Assumption Cristos was not absolutely clear about this. Or is it censoring the increase of 470 million euros in 2018, and the reinforcement of 585 million euros already in 2019? Where the CDS was censored when the PSD/CDS government increased moderate rates and inhibited user access to around 300 000 hospital emergencies for four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u268	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u269	... preventing access to health care to whom most needed? Oh, my God! Where was the CDS censorship, when the numbers were hidden and the waiting lists were not transparent and they didn't know each other? The CDS wasn't, the CDS wasn't censored, the CDS was sending nurses and younger people to emigrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u270	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u271	He never emigrated as much as now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u272	Now, censorship, yes, the support given by the PS government to the return of 12 400 nurses who emigrated during PSD / CDS governance. [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u273	Where was the censorship of the CDS when the PSD/CDS government passed the working hours from 35 to 40 hours? Where was the CDS, which now censures with this motion the allocation and strengthening of support to the SNS? The Portuguese continue to support the PS government, the Portuguese want more SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u274	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite signed up to request clarification from Mrs. Jamila Madeira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Jamila Madeira, in the last fortnight's debate, Prime Minister has repeatedly reiterated that the Socialist Party is the father of the National Health Service. We recognize that the PS was in the conception of the SNS, insofar as it passed a decree in the 1970s, a role that determined the foundation of the public health service. But if it is true that the PS was the father of the National Health Service, it is no less true that the Social Democratic Party has been the single mother who truly created the SNS over these 40 years. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Jamila Madeira, the PSD has implemented the National Health Service throughout the national territory. It was we who integrated the maternal-child health services, which allowed the infant mortality rate to be lowered to world reference levels, those levels that are now shaken and to which we await explanations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u277	We created medical careers and other health professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u278	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u279	It was the PSD that approved the Health Bases Act, which remained in force almost 30 years ago, without any party having challenged it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u280	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u281	When the PS, father of the SNS, did not pay the food pension, there was the PSD, the single mother of the SNS, to pay the debts left behind. [[PSD applause.]] Nevertheless, we should recognize some PS intervention over these 40 years of construction of the National Health Service. It was by the hands of the Socialist Party that all public-private partnerships in health were negotiated and inaugurated. [[PSD applause.]] It was the PS that succeeded in 2018 that the PCP and the Left Block voted in favour — imagine! — further a public-private partnership for the construction of the Eastern Lisbon Hospital. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u282	That's why they're full of fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u283	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is clear is that all the radicalism typical of the extreme left that now dominates the discourse of the Socialist Party and all the aversion of the PS to the social sector and the private sector do not pass from a farce, a theatrical blow to divert attention from the collapse of the National Health Service, for which you are directly responsible. The government failed. Today, we have less response capacity in the SNS than in the time of the troika. The Portuguese wait more than a thousand days for a consultation and hundreds of days for surgery, largely exceeding the clinically acceptable deadlines and thus pushing users into the private sector. Exact: PCP, Block and PS pushed the Portuguese into the private sector! [[PSD applause.]] Due to the seriousness of the health situation in Portugal, we need the Socialist Party to assume that it has failed and that it has immediately implemented a national emergency plan to save the National Health Service. Mrs. Jamila Madeira, do you assume you have failed? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u284	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to spread support for single mothers when family allowances have been cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u286	It's good to read the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u287	The PS government strengthened support for families, strengthened family allowances and strengthened support for single-parent families... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ...and therefore also strengthened support for SNS, supporting those who lack and need access to health. It is not propagandizing a role that can arrogant any right over the SNS. The PS was the father of the SNS, defend the SNS and defend-CL him while continuing to rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u288	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u289	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A motion of censure, whatever it is, is always a normal and legitimate right of opposition. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u290	We didn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u291	Moreover, it is extraordinary that the Socialist Party and the Government, in the head, now miss out on the existence of a motion of censure. The government we supported, the government that the CDS has, with great honour, joined with the PSD, had six motions of censure, of all the parties that are now of the majority. At the time it wasn't strange, at the time there was no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u292	The PS was already strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u293	Now it's weird, now it's a problem, now it's useless, now it's no use at all! This is pure and direct hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u295	On the other hand, I must say that this motion has had some advantages. He had the obvious advantage of a statement of opposition... [[Laughter and protests of PS, BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u296	Some? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u297	We're going to the Socialist Party, Mr. Neto Brandão, if you're a little calm. This motion not only had the advantage of being an exercise of opposition but also, even for you, had the advantage of some sheep walking down the street, clumsy, to say ill of the government, to be able to quickly return to the flock and to be here, agreeing, to vote as they have always done in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u299	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u300	That's an advantage. For us, the government didn't fall today. For us, the government would have fallen in 2017 when we presented the first motion of censure,... [[Well, well! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u301	... at the time of the greatest tragedy of the country but also of the greatest exercise of incompetence of a government in democratic Portugal, in many years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u302	For us, he had fallen at that time. Today, what we are witnessing is obviously an exercise of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u304	They do not accept censorship, they do not understand censorship, it is not reasonable to censure. Mr. João Oliveira, if the expression does not bother you, given the religious character, I would say that it is the old story of « well preaches Frei Tomás, do what he says, do not do what he does», obviously and directly applied to those who, in the past, did exactly the opposite of what he is criticizing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u305	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u306	Who saw them and who saw them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u307	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, let me tell you that the Left Block reacted to this motion of censure saying it was not legitimate. The National Coordinator and several of the Mrs. Members said that it was not legitimate: "The CDS cannot do the censorship, because..."—the expression is yours—"...it was against all the claims made in the past. » That's what you said. Was it or wasn't it? Oh, my God! Yes! If this is what they have said, I would like to say to you that in order to criticize the CDS in order to make a democratic political debate, there is no need to use a falsehood or a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u308	That's true! There are so many real things to use!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u309	The CDS was the first to raise the issue of rail and demanded investment. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The CDS demanded and proposed in the budget of the effective state for the security and career updating forces; the CDS put in the State budget negotiations with the teachers; the CDS demanded the entrances to the judicial police, demanded the autonomy of hospitals, demanded the negotiation with nurses and also demanded the question of doctors. The CDS has been in all these initiatives, you have voted, Budget after Budget, always in the same way. You are the majority, you are responsible for this same policy! [[CDS-PP applause.]] What is evident today, Mr. Members of the Left Block, the mask has fallen. With this motion, your mask has fallen! It is no longer enough to be at the door of a factory yesterday or tomorrow to attack the Prime Minister and the Government when everyone realized that, at the time of truth, you are always here to vote. The gentlemen, at the time of truth, are no revolutionary thing, they are submissive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u310	No more! It's as clear as water! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u311	Interestingly, you also tell us that the CDS motion is not to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u312	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are in the Socialist Party's pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u313	I ask you, Mr President, and the Left Block is to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u314	You have to decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u315	Apparently, even some of your founders – curiously named Louçán, a name that is not strange – also think that they are not to take seriously. What I read about what they say is "tacticism". Tacticism, will you say something? Tacticalism! In other words, the party that was the party of the protest and the party of the revolution became, they say, an end in themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u316	Like your mission in the Atlantic Pavilion!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u317	I will not repeat expressions of religious charity, Mr. Deputies, because in the Block, then, I am sure I can bother, forget Friar Tomás, let's stay with Friar Louçã. Do you know what it's like? It is Frei Louçã, revolutionary yesterday, at Banco de Portugal and at the Council of State tomorrow! It's as simple as that! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP.]] It's as simple as that! It's your story and your opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u318	More respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u319	Or if you want, Mrs. Member, once... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u320	Look at that! The jokes have limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u321	Don't get angry, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, don't get angry! It is the so-called "principle of Robles"! It is the so-called ‘Roble principle’: one day against gentrification, the other day strong in speculation! It's as simple as that! Don't get mad! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Let me now say something about the PCP, which also deserves. The PCP brought us here a very curious and very interesting thesis. The thesis that the PCP brought us here, and that is not today,... [[PCP protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! We all talk. They've already spoken, now let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u322	Take it easy, the motion is not against the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u323	The thesis that the PCP brought us here is a very curious and very interesting thesis. We have already listened to it by the voice of the Secretary-General, by the voice of Mr. João Oliveira and now we have heard again by the voice of Mr.António Filipe. What is the thesis of the PCP, Mr. João Oliveira? The CFP's thesis is this: basically, there is no majority; basically, what is a minority PS government that tells us the CFP, rules badly and deserves to be censored. Why? Because he rules with the support of PSD and CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] How? Oh, my God! Excuse me? How? Oh, my God! Anyone believe that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u324	It was the only right thing I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u325	Do you know what I think, Mr. João Oliveira? I don't think your oldest and most historical comrade of Cuba's strongest cell — in Alentejo, not in the Caribbean — believes in this thesis, because even this comrade will start to think: "Then who is ruling is the evil António Costa, with the right? And we, communists, are, as always, well on the side of the tomorrows that sing and on the side of progress? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Then the comrade begins to think:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u326	I was better off making rhymes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u327	... Then why the hell did we vote on the State budgets? [[CDS-PP laughter.]] What the hell? Oh, my God! If they rule with the right, why are we always approving the State budgets? Oh, my God! » Get out of the way! [[Rice and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] He is at war and asks: "Why is it that, when there is a motion of censure, we endure the evilness of the Costa in the government? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CDS-PP laughter.]] « We vote for it to continue forever! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Get out of the way! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't hang up! Don't take it, it doesn't make sense! [[PCP protests.]] Besides, I don't want to be unpleasant, but Mr. António Filipe has lost his mind about who he was, who he was, who he wasn't, who he wasn't, who I don't know, in the middle of this story...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u328	I've only made quotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u329	Mr President, I say one thing to you: if the word "stupid" adds 'useful', no one is doubting whose role it is. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u330	You idiots!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u331	Whenever the government was censored, had the PCP crunch, or then disappeared that street block pen, I regret that here is no more than a berloque in Mr. Prime Minister's hat, a left-wing berlocus in Mr. Prime Minister's hat.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u332	Well, well! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u333	As for PS, I don't want to add much. I just want to tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that the PS has had two attitudes here: one was that of Mr Prime Minister, who, in the midst of some answers that he has given — I do this justice — has always shown some sovereignness, someone who is above whatever he is, who is not worried about anything, because he knows that, on the limit, he always has those who support him, he always has useful people to help him stay in the government and keep in power. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] On the other hand, a Socialist Party a little more traulite,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u334	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u335	... a little more available for insinuations, a little in the style of Mr. Ascenso Simões' intervention, which, including, did something funny, because at some point mentioned Paulo Portas when he spoke defending...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u336	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u337	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, Mr Ascenso Simões quoted Paulo Portas when he defended a government that was a majority at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u338	Don't! 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u339	He did not quote Paul Portas when we presented several motions of censure to the Socrates Government, which you were part of. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] And I say more: if any of these motions of censure to the Socrates Government had been approved, we had saved the country from bankruptcy and even saved the justice of many and many rascals and beatings. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You are more and more like that government. That is why we remodel a minister who promises millions that he will not execute. That's why!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u340	Mr President, it has already exceeded the CDS time by 1 and a half minutes, which still has the final intervention. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u341	I'm done now, Mr. President. That is why your government is increasingly a small group, a family group. A family group that brings nothing new to the country, that deserves censorship and that deserves the alternative that today obviously has a clear and obvious face. [[Congrats from the CDS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u342	He's lowered the level! Yeah, there's always a chin!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u343	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u344	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u345	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u346	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u347	Mr President, you recently launched a challenge to the three parties that had time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u348	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u349	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group responded to this challenge by registering Mrs Jamila Madeira for an intervention, the Parliamentary Group signed Mr Telmo Correia. If the PSD Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u350	Parliamentary groups are not obliged to waste time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u351	By not registering the PSD, the PS Parliamentary Group includes Mr Carlos César, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u352	Mr Carlos César has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : Once again in this Parliament we have discussed a motion of destructive censure. this time, just minutes of his ad, he showed serving for nothing. It does not serve to overthrow the government, it did not serve to present proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u354	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u355	...it will not prove anything else but the reconfirmation of the majority support that the Government has in this House, a majority of parties whose differences have been and are all known. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has, however, a virtue: it shows that those who are exhausted are not the government nor the majority, who are repeated today, exhausted is the opposition, which today repeats their failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition returned, with this motion of censure, to the house of departure, where the rights today only meet the cases and times when they say no. But what is troubling the parliamentary parties on the right? Which leads the CDS to raise the crest... [[PS laughter.]] ...and presenting this motion of censure? And the PSD, crawled and unnerved, serving him as a palm tree, like a dizzy party? No cognitive revolution! No practical effect! Only the voracity of one and the disorientation of another—a CDS that has not yet understood where it cannot reach and a PSD that has not yet realized whether it can be combined with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So to think how best we could serve our country, we had to be here in this debate to watch another episode of the wars of influences between the parties on the right. The CDS and PSD, which were in the past in alliance, are now in common concern about the forecasts of the vote that they realize is not enough for them. On the other hand, they have been outraged by the threats of emerging parties in the territory in which they rekindle their dispute, no longer disguise the inconvenience of intrusion. Like in a dark room, where more than one wants to sit in the same place, the PSD is the least prestigious role: after being warned by Mr Nuno Melo, the PSD ended up against Mr Rangel, who said that the PSD would not go after initiatives such as that of the CDS, which qualified as a protest party. In fact, however, this is a motion of censorship from the CDS to the PSD. Only the fact that there is no such regiment is that it makes it a motion of censure to the Government. And what's funny is that the PSD will vote in favour. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Permedium, there were no justifications: criticism of the government for the number of strikes, forgetting that if we were satisfied with all that is asked of us, many billions of euros that the country does not have would be required; criticism of the government for the lack of public works, when there was still little complaint about the trend on the left for excessive works; criticism of the government against captives and budgetary restraint, when soon at the beginning of the legislature they were daring the devil of bankruptcy. And even criticism of the government for having already made six changes in its composition, forgetting that in the CDS / PSD government the renovations were nine. In this regard, in fact, we greet the Prime Minister for the way in which he has called for government activity a new generation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u356	They're all from the same group!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u357	... which well contrasts with the inability of the parliamentary right parties to counter their own political ageing. Just see us the shadow government of the PSD, which reminds us of the classic images of the former supreme Soviet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u358	It is more the right parliamentary opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u359	... between the relics of cavaquism and deserts of passusism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : They have said that we have increased taxes. On the contrary, it was with the Government CDS / PSD that the tax burden in Portugal reached the most historic...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u360	That's history!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u361	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u362	...and it was the current government that dropped it as it went up in the euro area. It would, yes, apply the revenue of the spokesman for the PSD finances, which defends the increase in taxes, the replacement of VAT for the restoration, the minimum collection of 500 € for companies that do not pay IRC, the IRS for families that do not pay for being poor, or even more early measures such as the end of public employees' licenses for trade union activity. We have been resented by the behaviour of our economy. Portugal is converging with Europe nine consecutive quarters, and so it will continue. Exports reach the maximum of time, foreign investment stock is at most and investment has already grown 25 % with this government, when it fell 9 % with the CDS / PSD Government. We have already created more than 350 000 jobs. We have already reduced young unemployment to half and long-term unemployment to more than half. The opposition seems not to understand. But incomprehensible, yes, it was to hear Durão Barroso in the PSD Convention concerned about growth, when it was with him that Portugal struck at the bottom: Portugal was one of the only European countries that had then been in recession. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have focused on the situation of some public services. One thing is right, and we have already said so in this debate: unfortunately, the corrosive effects that the de-investment and lack of priority given to public services by the CDS / PSD government have not been exhausted. In fact, there are still many shortcomings and problems that persist, particularly in the SNS. But we asked, what if we had not invested, as we did, in health, what difficulties would we not have now? Oh, my God! We would certainly not have a decrease in the number of people without a family doctor or the highest number of consultations ever, nor the largest number of usual surgeries, nor the largest number of transplants ever, nor the largest number of professionals always in our National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS does not have a word, in the motion of censure it presented, on inequalities and on poverty. Yeah, they don't even think about it! ... But let us know that Portugal is the second country in Europe that has most reduced poverty and social exclusion, and that was with the Government of the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS does not have a word about insular Portugal or inside Portugal. They are not interested in the ongoing measures of investment attraction, tax benefits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u363	Don't you? Oh, my God! What about the tax benefit that you dropped when you voted on the State budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u364	... reduction of costs for companies, incentives to set population or forest protection strategy. Mr. President, Mr.as and Members: PS knows the starting point it had in 2015 when it took possession of the current government. In all this mandate we are careful not to repeat mistakes, mistakes from our past, such as mistakes from the previous government. Did we create good expectations? Yes! When you're doing well, you can't wait for it to get better. Have we done less than we promised? Don't! Have we done more than we promised? Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u365	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u366	We now have a better economy, stronger companies, more employment, a stronger bank to serve families and entrepreneurs, a more sustainable social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u367	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u368	We are recovering investment in health and education,... [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u369	... the families are more supported by their elderly and their children, the country has recovered financially and the Government and the Prime Minister are respected today in all European institutions and in international media. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after voting on this motion of censure, we will say, as before, here we are and here we will continue, with the confidence of the Portuguese, to do even better, to prepare the country for the future! Thank you very much for your opportunity. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u370	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the closing period of the debate. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three and a half years ago, the 21st Government has approved its Programme in this House. in this programme, voted by the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens, we assume a very clear ambition: to turn the page of austerity, through the recovery of income from families, the restoration of rights, the improvement of investment conditions for companies, while reducing deficit and debt. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] More growth, better employment and greater equality, with certain accounts. On this programme, the PSD and the CDS said it was unrealistic; it was a threat to public accounts; it would remove investors; it would challenge our international commitments and even put the country on the way to a new rescue. Today, the PSD and the CDS no longer criticize the government for putting public accounts at risk or for lack of gradualness in the replacement of rights and income. in a reversal of arguments, they accuse the government of not responding positively to all wage claims and career progression. What three years ago they said to be irresponsibility is now — turn around! — what they seem to want to defend as the right way of governing, without concern about expenditure or control of public accounts. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This motion we are debating today is therefore a violent censorship of the CDS itself to the CDS and, by drag, to the PSD. The catastrophic tone continues the same, but the CDS tried to forget—or tried to get the Portuguese to forget—all they announced as imminent for less than three years. It's just that the Portuguese don't forget what the CDS did in the government, nor what the CDS said in the opposition. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's worth remembering what they said was the fate of the country's destiny. The « Government of the Left », in order to use an expression towards the CDS, would lead the country to international discredit and lead public accounts to bankruptcy; the increase in the minimum wage and the recovery of income would result in the collapse of the economy. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u372	No Zandinga! The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation — Unemployment was going to be triggered, and the deficit and debt would be out of control — this was the speech of the CDS and the PSD until a long time ago. Employment, deficit and debt, three themes on which the CDS now prefers or speaks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 2019 CDS is ashamed of what the 2016 CDS said, and understood itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the last 38 months, the Government has fulfilled its Programme and the policies it presented to this House: it has returned the salaries and pensions that had been cut off, keeping the conditions of access to social benefits and reducing labour taxes by EUR 1000 million; it has increased the minimum wage, restored 35 hours for public service workers and significantly increased the family allowance to over 95 000 children; it has also ensured the improvement of family income by reducing costs with health, education and transport, by reducing moderate rates, reducing tips, free school textbooks and reducing the price of passes already from next April.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u373	But it's just for some! The Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — strengthened the SNS with the hiring of 9000 health professionals and 100 new USF (family health units), reduced the number of Portuguese without a family doctor and included oral and visual health in primary care. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It resumed the Simplex and the path of administrative modernization — interrupted by the previous government — with the launch of measures such as automatic IRS, paperless revenue, pension simulator, installing 12 citizen stores and 332 citizen spaces throughout the country. We have implemented the policies we promised, the policies we have studied, evaluated and timed, and the results are in sight: the economy has increased again and the years of 2017 and 2018 were the first of this century in which we grew above the average of our European partners; 348 000 jobs have been created, 81 % of which are endless and in the context of rising wages; 180 000 people have emerged from the risk of poverty in the last three years and the average net income of workers on account of others is growing almost 7% since 2015. School success increased by 2 percentage points in all basic and secondary education, while early abandonment fell to 11.7 %, approaching us from the 10 % target that the country set for 2020. We reduced the deficit for the lowest value of democracy, not only in 2016, but also in 2017, and again in 2018, supporting the gradual reduction of public debt, which they said was impossible. Let us look at the path that we travel in such a short time, and at the results achieved, strengthens our conviction in the justice of the path followed, but it also increases our sense of responsibility and urgency on the path that is still ahead, which is a lot. In health, improving access to care, increasing the ability to respond and reducing the weight of health expenditure in the budgets of all families. These are proposals, not just criticisms! There are those who continue to resonate in a catastrophic speech and use this pretext to avoid having to present ideas. On the contrary, the Government is committed to pursuing a path, a path for improving the lives of Portuguese. But building this path does not, at any time, divert us from our ambition: preparing the country for the challenges of the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the five pages of the motion of censure presented by the CDS, and in an even more visible way in the debate we are witnessing today, we find an amalgamation of avulsive protests, many of them contradictory in terms and purposes, but, as far as we are looking, we do not find a single idea, a single proposal, a single solution for the problems of Portuguese and the future of Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Where did they previously criticize a supposed benefit of customers and excessive alignment with trade unions—are they remembered? Oh, my God! — Today, they shake the flag of the social challenge, but never clarify the following: with what claims do they agree? What measures would they take? What are your costs and what would you stop doing to assume as your demands?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u374	All right! The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — Censorship is always easy, but in democracy, what is expected of a party that wants to be an alternative is simple: that she shows her solutions, which defends her policies, who presents her accounts. For those who have spent the first two years of this government waving the ghost of spending and lack of control is the minimum that is required. [[All right!]] The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today is not marked by a motion of censure, it is marked...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u375	By a sad figure! The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation -... for an assumption of incapacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Taking incapacity to overthrow a majority that said fragile, but which proved strong and stable on the horizon of this legislation ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u376	And submit! The Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization —... inability to affirm an alternative to the country, merely to mark a right-wing vote dispute, which, in fact, transcends this Assembly. Inability to think of a medium- and long-term strategy for the country and to define the right policies to respond to Portuguese problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Within minutes the motion of censure will be rejected, but it is not only the rejection of this motion that is at issue today, it is the rejection of a strategy, an attitude, a certain way of opposing. With this rejection, the government comes out with strengthened confidence in the course followed over these three years and with certainty of the way it wants to continue. With this rejection, it wins the country, which sees a path of recovery of the economy, employment, income and investment. With this rejection, they gain the Portuguese, who see continued a path of hope that returns confidence in a future of progress and prosperity, a path that we know is not easy, a path of pragmatism and ambition, of realism and hope, a path to which once again proved that the right cannot contribute. [[Congratulations, standing, doPS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u377	Mr Pedro Mota Soares spoke at this closing stage on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u378	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have reached the end of this debate with a clear confirmation that this government is exhausted. [[PS laughter.]] It's a government with no energy, no will, no ideas. It is a government that exchanges solutions for illusions. It is a government that has already closed for works or, better, has closed for the announcement of works that are probably not going to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u379	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u380	It is therefore legitimate to ask ourselves now: what does this government have today to present to the nation? What does this government have to say to a Portuguese man who goes to a hospital and sees his surgery postponed, because there's a strike, or his protracted exam, why there's no money to get a machine? Oh, my God! Nothing other than the promise made to Brussels of cuts of EUR 236 million, especially in the areas of health and education. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u381	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u382	What answer does the government have to give to a family who does not know what to do to their children, because the school is closed due to a union claim, as a result of a lack of speech given by the members of the government? Nothing, because it is a government that has broken social peace and is paying the price of not honoring the given word. Only in 2018 and 2019 were delivered 372 strike notice — the highest number of these decades — and this, above all, affects many families in Portugal that depend on these public services. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] What hope does this government have to give to a small or medium-sized entrepreneur who bears the highest tax burden of ever or a farmer who despairs of the approval of a Community fund that never comes again? Nothing, because it is a government for which small and medium-sized enterprises are mere contributors and it is a government that despises agriculture, accepting even an unacceptable cut from the funds of the common agricultural policy in the next Community framework. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What future does this government give pensioners and public servants, who are at risk of losing ADSE services? Nothing, except to be a pure ideological blindness of a minister who wants to end ADSE, because he thinks it is, and I quote, « a twist in the system».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u384	Let's be clear: we don't have a government well, we have, yes, a group of people who join on Thursday morning to discuss which faction are part, to know who is more or less on the left,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...who is purer ideologically or more friend of the Left Block and PCP. [[PS protests.]] Let's be true: we don't have a prime minister well, we have, yes, a campaign director who already thinks only about the next propaganda action. Let us be objective: this government may not fall today — this decision is in the hands of the Communist Party and the Left Block — but it does not replace what everyone has already realized, that this government is finished! [[CDS-PP applause.]] This government has a weak team, but the crisis that comes there is strong and the country wants changes, whether someone who assumes responsibility for the difficult challenges with which we are going to be confronted. It is on behalf of these Portuguese that this motion of censure is presented. This government has received a country with the economy growing, with unemployment falling and with a very favourable international economic environment. In the face of a unique opportunity to reform and sustain growth, the Government has chosen to invest in the interests of those who believe that they are theirs, rather than defending the national interest, the interests of all. The government's budgetary option was to reduce all cuts in spending on investment and public services, based on a deeply penalizing principle, never declared or assumed, that it is possible and preferable to exchange the satisfaction of employees by employees, demonstrating unparalleled social insensitivity in the fields of health, safety, education, transport and cohesion. They repeated a thousand times — now a thousand and one — the ‘turning the page of austerity’, but at the same time increased indirect taxes by lying until the tax on gas oil and gasoline increased. They promised a thousand times more investment and better public services, but at the same time Portugal remained with public investment in historic minimums, with worse implementation of Community funds and with public services in minimum services. They have sworn a thousand times dialogue, but they present themselves with the arrogance of those who are allowed to pursue whole professional classes, with the arrogance of those who destrate representatives of democratic unions, with the arrogance of those who are more concerned with their authority than with the authority of the State. This narrative came to an end and this motion of censure also marks the end of this narrative. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese, the first and last reason of any government, today suffer the highest tax burden ever for such a weak result. The opportunity to sustain growth and reform the country was lost. This majority no longer has solutions to offer. They wait for us eight long and painful months. The only future they think about is October and the only action will be propaganda, in a totally blatant way. The fact that the Government has lost its opportunity does not mean that Portugal has to lose its own. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, there has been one who called into question the legitimacy of the CDS to present a motion of censure, considered, as Mr Carlos César said, « irrelevant ». [[PS protests.]] It is ironic, even comical, that those who lost the elections, those who disrespected the popular vote and those who presented a government that had the legitimacy in the conch of party directories accuse of illegitimateness who want to return the word to the Portuguese people. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It is even sad, because it is an argument that it does not honor the Socialist Party of Mário Soares, Jorge Sampaio, Antonio Guterres, Salgado Zenha or Manuel Alegre, all subscribers of motions of censure, all more tolerant with the legitimate rights of opposition of the parties than this current Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, it is an argument that reminds us much more of the Socialist Party of the days of José Socrates and what it took us to. That's why today's question is so legitimate: what does the PS, acquitted by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, fear so much in elections?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u385	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u386	If this government solution is so strong, so good, so cohesive, so stable, why does the government not present today a motion of confidence here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u387	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u388	Why is that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u389	Not to be an idiot! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u390	What is the government afraid of? [[CDS-PP applause.]] By the way, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block — so critical out there, but so demanding in this House — if, after all, they are unhappy, why do they not present a motion of censure on your farm? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Using the communist jargon, why do they not "take the fight to the vote"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u391	Looks like those gay guys are pushing others to hell!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u392	Perhaps it would be an opportunity for us to hear again about the renegotiation of public debt, the revision of the budget treaty, the orthodoxy of deficit, the money that governments put on banks or even the repeal of the Labour Code, which is strangely absent from the political debate. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today what goes well in Portugal is despite the government and not thanks to the government. Before a government that only manages the electoral cycle and a vague parliamentary support base, we see good reasons for returning the floor to the Portuguese and giving them the right to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u393	Let's see if we can take a slap at the PSD! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u394	Today we have a government that does not change policy and we have a country that wants to change government. If this government and the parties that support it already think only about the forthcoming elections, then Portugal cannot be postponed. We need to give Portugal a hope, we need to give the Portuguese a way to recover the future, and that path is not possible with this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u395	Not even the PSD beats you, the more you share government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-20.u396	We have thus reached the end of the debate on the motion of censure tabled by the CDS-PP, so we will then proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 219 presences to which 3 are added by the Members. Members José Luís Ferreira, dos Verdes, Pedro Alves and José António Silva, of the PSD, making 222 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. I remember the ladies. Members who vote today by means of the electronic system, since in the case of motions of censure we are obliged to do so in accordance with Article 1 1 1 ( f ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 223 ( 2 ). Article 94 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Let us therefore vote the motion of Censorship No 2 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recovering the Future. [[Having put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in effective office, and recorded 115 votes against, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member, and 103 votes in favour, the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The motion of censure was thus rejected. [[Congratulations, standing, doPS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's work has been completed, I inform you that tomorrow we will have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. Our agenda will begin with a current debate required by the PS on the theme « Call centres work regime ». Secondly, we will examine the report Evaluation of the national civil protection system in the context of rural fires, the Independent Technical Observatory for Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation of Forest and Rural Fires occurring in the National Territory, in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August. Thirdly, the Resolution Projects Nos 1668 / XIII / 3 will be discussed together in general. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government work with the ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) to ensure the necessary conditions for improving the operationality of Madeira International Airport — Cristiano Ronaldo and 1757 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote with ANAC the study of the optimization of the operationality of Madeira International Airport — Cristiano Ronaldo. Fourthly, we will generally discuss draft Law No 1069 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the impact assessment of regulatory acts in the production, maintenance, worsening or reduction and eradication of poverty. In the fifth and final place, we will discuss the Bills Nos 1080 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of CTTs and 1096 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of TCCs is carried out, in general, along with Draft Resolution No 1869 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Reversion of the privatisation of TTCs. We are thus at the end of our work. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 37 minutes.]]
