ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are political statements on our agenda today. Before that, however, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the introduction of some initiatives. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, which falls to all committees, being competent to 5. the Commission, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020, which falls to all committees, being competent to 5. the Commission, and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023, which falls to all committees, being competent to 5. the Commission. Law No. 149 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Action plan for the construction, requalification and modernization of the school building, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 150 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Multi-annual investment programming law for SNS establishments, which falls to 9. the Commission, 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of extinct strawberries, which falls to 13. the Commission, 15 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 153 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Financing of public higher education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 154 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the framework law of school social action in higher education and defines specific support for students, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 155 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs the national plan for structural prevention of the effects of drought and its monitoring, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 156 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Protective belts and environmental impact assessment scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 157 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Housing-supported Rent Scheme, which falls to 6. the Commission, 165 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction in the age of reform of persons with disabilities, which falls to 10. the Commission, 167 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Exemption of propines in all cycles of higher education for students with disabilities, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 168 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. Resolution Nos 159 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Evaluation study on the extensive areas of agricultural production under intensive and superintensive regime, which falls to 7. the Commission, 160 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of an emergency programme for strengthening public response to cultural heritage and the enhancement of museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites, which falls to 12. the Commission, 161 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — potentiating tariff reduction for a strategic bet on the promotion of public transport, which falls to 6. the Commission, 162 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By tariff articulation and promotion of the reduction of transport prices in connections between metropolitan areas and neighbouring intermunicipal communities, which falls to 6. the Commission, 163 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For investment and public management in the fundamental road network - the urgent resumption of IP2 and IP8 works and the end of the Lower Alentejo road PPP, which falls to 6. the Commission, 165 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government suspend works in the Port of Setúbal until the completion of environmental and economic issues, which falls to 6. the Commission, 167 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to guarantee truly ecological flows in the Tejo River with regular information to populations, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 168 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratorium for sale or transfer of state estate in cities in housing shortage, which falls to 6. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, then, initiate the political statements. The first one today is the Portuguese Communist Party. To that end, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Valuing work and workers is an essential condition for the development of the country and for a society of progress and social justice. Every day in many companies and workplaces continues to mean, for hundreds of thousands of workers, a reality of low wages, precariousness, deregulation of hours, intense working rhythms, abuse of shiftwork and continuous work, overload of work, limitation and impossibility of articulation of professional, personal and family life. This day-to-day reality, which profoundly degrades the lives of workers, must respond with solutions that effectively mean the rise in the living conditions of workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector. And the improvement of the living conditions of workers is inseparable from the general increase in wages for all workers and from the valorization of professions and careers, which are a matter of national emergency. It is unacceptable that the continuing reality of hundreds of thousands of workers who are impoverished — over the past month and there are less wages. It is necessary to respond to the demands already put on the general increase in wages, an increase of €90 in 2020 for all workers, of €850 for the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u6	It is necessary for public administration workers, after 10 years of freezing wages, to have a response that contributes to the replacement of purchasing power, which the Government does not respond with proposals for an increase of €2 or €3 per month for workers, a proposal that shocks and does not value the work that these workers develop every day in public services. Currently, about 56% of the wealth produced in our country is in the hands of 1% of the Portuguese population. The profound injustice in the distribution of wealth is evident with these numbers and wage valuation is essential to counter this reality, to combat inequalities and poverty, to guarantee dignity in the lives of workers, to ensure, in the future, higher pensions and reforms. The general increase in wages for all workers is possible and it is necessary: it values workers, dynamizes the economy, strengthens social security, builds reforms worthy of the future for each one. It is also important: to ensure 35 hours for all workers and to strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work; to set and fulfil the working hours and to end unregulated hours, to changes reported on the evening, to destabilization of family life and the health of workers; to respect the rest times and to ensure and comply with their conditions of payment and compensation to those working on shifts and at night hours; to repeal the adaptability and bank mechanisms, instruments used by the employer to increase working time without charge to employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u8	It is necessary to guarantee decent times and time to live, for workers to have personal and family life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u10	... and this requires the limitation of night work and shifts to situations that are technically and socially justified, as also requires limitations to continuous labor. It is necessary to combat effectively the precariousness: to conclude the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ) quickly and to regularize the situation of all workers who, having precarious links, respond to permanent needs in the services of the Public Administration. But it is also important to combat precariousness firmly in the private sector — false green receipts, long-term contracts in abuse, temporary work, outsourcing, professional internships — so that, also in the private sector, employers, especially the large economic groups, avoid guaranteeing rights to workers and thus replace workers with rights by workers without rights. Labour precariousness is one of the most striking features of the country's social situation and of the exploitation of workers. There will be more than 1 million and 200 thousand workers who, responding to permanent needs, have a precarious link, repeatedly swinging between a situation of work instability and unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u11	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u12	It is urgent to promote the stability of employment, to fulfil and enforce the right to work and to safety at work provided for in the Constitution, ensuring that a permanent job corresponds to an effective working link, as well as to eradicate all forms of precariousness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social and labour reality experienced by the workers currently results from political options realized by different governments of the PSD, the CDS and the PS, which, with successive changes to labour law, imposed backlogs on workers’ rights — facilitated the proliferation of precariousness, facilitated and embarrassed redundancies, disregulated working hours, reduced rights due to the lapse of collective bargaining. This is a reality that needs to be brought to an end. Progress needs to be made in rights: to repeal the serious standards that continue in the Labour Code and in the labour legislation of the Public Administration, to improve working conditions, to raise the living conditions of workers, which is inseparable from their wage valuation, which is fundamental to the economic development of the country. The CFP will not miss this fight. The commitment we have made to the workers and the Portuguese people has already translated into a broad set of legislative initiatives we have given in the Assembly of the Republic. There we will be, as we have always been, to give voice to the demands of workers, to defend their rights and to build, in this defence and in this struggle, a more just society, a society of social justice and social progress. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u13	Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Bureau records the entries of six Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u14	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u15	So, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u16	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, we congratulate the CFP on bringing to debate the issue of work precariousness, which we are quite concerned about. In fact, the NAP presented, in the past legislature, a number of initiatives aimed at combating job insecurity and ensuring greater stability in employment. We have proposals that have been approved and the implementation of which is still to be monitored, such as strengthening the protection of workers in the event of harassment and measures to promote equal pay between men and women. However, we have presented several others who, despite their importance, continue to find resistance, such as the guarantee of the right to professional disconnection and measures that allow greater reconciliation of family life with professional life, such as the extension of parental leave, the reduction of working hours for all professionals at 35 hours, the right to 25 working days of holiday and the consecration of carnival as a compulsory holiday. We are also concerned about the extension of the experimental period in the context of short-term contracts, as a result of the recent amendment to the Labour Code, because it would therefore be contrary to a path which has been taken to reintroduce labour rights. There is still much to be done to ensure the effective quality of employment, which goes through a bet on the vocational training of workers, on the payment of decent wages and on the eradication of all forms of work precariousness. It is essential to limit the criteria for the use of temporary work by the negative effect on the quality of employment, to strengthen the rights of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), also to ensure the rights of workers in the night shift arrangements and to ensure the number of employees in the supervisory bodies, thus ensuring more effective intervention that impedes the use of the employment of workers with precarious links to the performance of permanent functions. In addition, it is essential to create healthier working environments, with a clear commitment to the mental health of workers and to adopt measures that promote equality, taking into account the necessary improvement of the employability of immigrants as well as those with disabilities, which are still faced with many barriers to access to the labour market and the enjoyment of their rights on a daily basis. Moreover, we are faced with what is the discussion of a new State budget, and it is essential to restore rights also in the Public Administration, which, at this time, has a credit before all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u17	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. Having said that, what we would like to know is whether the CFP actually accompanies these concerns and whether it is willing to fight alongside the NAP to achieve these rights. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u19	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Lina Lopes, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, all of us in this House are aware of the positions and reservations of the CFP regarding the Labour Code and labour laws. However, since 2013 employment has increased and unemployment has decreased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u22	... with this labour legislation approved in this House and discussed at the centre of social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore this irrefutable and so important fact for our country. I would also like to reiterate the position of the PSD in these matters of a working nature. We believe that all these matters should be assessed, analysed and discussed at the heart of social consultation. We also reiterate that it must be the government to create all the conditions for wage recovery and to effectively end wage inequality between women and men. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u23	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Assembly of the Republic has all the legitimacy to legislate on the subject. However, it is our view that this should only be done after hearing the trade union confederations and employers' confederations at the social level in order to, together with the Government, find the best solutions for workers, the labour market and Portugal. Mrs Diana Ferreira, the PSD considers social consultation a fundamental instrument for ensuring peace, social cohesion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u25	...and on this fact I have no doubt that we all agree. Thus, the PSD considers it essential that dialogue in social dialogue be stimulated and encouraged, because no one in this House doubts that there are no companies without workers and there is no decent work without companies. Therefore, it is only possible to work properly with dialogue and consultation between the parties. In conclusion, I will leave you with two questions: is it true that employment has increased and unemployment has decreased with the labour legislation adopted here in this House?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u27	Do you agree or disagree that dialogue and social dialogue are the best way to find social peace, social cohesion, and, above all, the most suitable solutions for the world of work and, above all, for Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u28	Mrs. Diana Ferreira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u29	Mr President, I thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Lina Lopes for the questions they have raised. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the CFP has an extended set of proposals in the context of strengthening workers' rights, whether it is the question of direct maternity and paternity, which are also fundamental to us, either in the replacement of the right to 25 holiday days, on which we have also presented an initiative in the Assembly of the Republic, or in the matter of the matter of the ACT, for example in which, in defending its reinforcement, we understand, however, that the ACT does not have to have any pedagogical action with the companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u31	The Act must have an action to inspect the business activity, on infringements that may be committed by undertakings with regard to labour rights. Therefore, it would also be important to know whether the NAP accompanies the PCP proposal to confer the executive title on the conviction decisions of the ACT, making a set of processes in these areas of work not to continue in courts and that this does not mean that companies are unpunished after disrespecting and encroaching on the rights of workers who are, in fact, enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u33	There are several rights in our labour legislation that are still enshrined, but several governments, including the PSD and the CDS, would have gone much further in the destruction of those rights if they had had been possible. However, they have not yet destroyed all existing rights relating to the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u35	These rights have been defended with the struggle of thousands of workers for several years and have also been won with this struggle. And we will also be here, both to defend these rights and to present proposals that strengthen them. Because it's the workers who create the wealth of our country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u37	... and the wealth of companies, it is more than fair that this wealth is well distributed, in particular in a fairer way, with a general increase of wages, in particular at the beginning of 2020, with the €850 as a share of the national minimum wage, naturally making a whole of other wages also rise and those above the national minimum wage can also continue to rise and be valued, thus restoring to justice situations. Mrs Lina Lopes, I note that, as regards a number of situations which have been exposed by me to the forum on the concrete reality of companies and workplaces, the PSD had nothing to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u38	Have you forgotten the social consultation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u39	On the question of shiftwork, the PSD, for example, had nothing to say. We are talking about some 760 000 workers who, at the moment - there are data that indicate in this regard - working on shifts, Mrs Deputies. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] We are talking about more than 1 million workers working on Sundays and more than 2 million workers working on Saturdays in our country!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u41	On the issues of shiftwork, nightwork, the articulation between personal life, family life and also professional life, the PSD said nothing. Mrs Deputy, these matters are within the competence of legislation of the Assembly of the Republic, which has all the conditions to decide whether to strengthen the rights of workers. And the question is...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u42	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u43	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, the question is on which side the PSD is positioned in this matter, because so far it has been against the rights of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u44	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u45	...running a set of rights that are already conquered and consecrated as well. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u46	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr.António Gameiro, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u47	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, we would like to ask the CFP about the evolution of what has been the employment indicators in Portugal. The first question is whether or not the CFP recognises that more than 300 000 jobs have been created over the past four years by this Government are a good sample of the work that the PS has done for workers, for the benefit of employees, and what has been the work that came from the previous Legislature — also with the support of the CFP, the Left Block and the PS — to combat precariousness in the PREVPAP programme. Madam Member, we have increased the minimum wage already to 600 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u48	So it wasn't for €635? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u49	... and we want to draw attention to the promotion of decent work, which has been done over the past four years: we fight harassment at the workplace, we implement new forms of work, we take action on forced labour and we always defend decent work in terms of equal work between women and men. Madam Member, I would like to know whether or not to recognise the reformulation of active employment policies over the past four years, whether or not they have yielded effective results, whether or not there has been a fight against the shortage of Portuguese qualifications over the past four years, whether or not we have established a share of access to employment for people with disabilities. As far as public service is concerned, Mrs Deputy, over the past four years the PS government has increased public servants by an average of 8 %, 129 € per person and per capita each of the 600 000 employees of the central government of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we refuse to say goodbye to public officials, we have fulfilled our commitments to them, reducing their working hours to 35 hours, we have approved PREVPAP, which is in conclusion, we reverse pay cuts, strengthened the Public Administration to more 31 000 workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u50	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u51	... so I would like to know whether or not the CFP accompanies the PS here forward in strengthening these policies, in monitoring the work of this government, gradually, in strengthening wages and working conditions in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u52	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Diana Ferreira, The Greens also consider that wage valuation is absolutely essential, not only for matters of justice but also because the value of wages is an important factor in the dynamisation of domestic demand. If there is no valuation of wages when the economy is good, then when will it be the right time to value wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u54	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u55	But the honourable Member also referred to the fight against job insecurity, and we also believe that it should be taken as a priority by any government, not only because precariousness is socially unfair and degrading but also because the State, in this and other matters, will have to set an example. It was, in fact, with this spirit, in the sense of the State itself to set the example, that in the past legislature has moved forward with PREVPAP. It happens that we have arrived at this time, when the Programme should have been completed long ago, and things continue to unfold, with many of the workers still "hanging" and with their life suspended. These are problems that require answers. The State has to set an example not only for the more comfortable way of demanding the same behaviour for the private, but also because work precariousness is unfair and socially degrading, in addition to always being associated with lies and fraud. And both fraud and lies cannot take place in labour relations and much less when these labour relations have the State as a party, because if the State does not comply, it will be more difficult to require private people to do so. Mrs Deputy, in the previous Parliament, the PS and PSD promoted changes to labour legislation and one of these changes allowed the time of the experimental period to double. Now, knowing that the experimental period represents the maximum exponent when we talk about job precariousness, since in this situation the employer can fire as well as very well understand, without even having to substantiate whatever it is and without even taking place to any kind of dynamism for the worker, what I ask the honourable Member is whether, in her perspective, this cooked measure between the PS and the PSD has contributed or not to promoting the precariousness that, by the way, everyone says they want to fight, even those who have spent years and years promoting it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u56	Mrs. Diana Ferreira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u57	Mr President, I also thank Mr António Gameiro of the PS and Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party for the issues they have raised. Mr António Gameiro raised a number of questions and it is true that in the last legislature we have made a path which meant the replacement of rights. 35 hours in the Public Administration was the replacement of a right that had been withdrawn from the Public Administration. This is what we are talking about, a path for the replacement of rights and income, which has included a significant intervention, an active intervention and struggle on the part of the CFP so that this could be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u59	In fact, in the previous legislation we soon established the minimum wage in the 650 €, and it had not been this proposal of the PCP, perhaps today we would not be with the minimum wage in the 600 €, which is not enough but that we recognize to be an increase in the national minimum wage that existed before. The fact that there has been this increase, whether from the point of view of salaries in public administration or in the private sector, does not inhibit the national need and emergency that exists from the general valuation of wages in our country, an essential condition to guarantee better living conditions for workers, but, Mr. Member, also essential condition to ensure the economic development of our country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u61	...because if our workers have more wages, they will also have better conditions for spending money and thus also boost our economy. That's what we're talking about, sir. With regard to the question of PREVPAP, which you also spoke about, we believe that this has been an important step. However, we have always said that PREVPAP could never be the end of the issues of regularization of precarious links in public administration and what it is also important to know, Mr. Deputies, is what the PS wants to do, for example, to a group of workers who maintain precarious links in public administration, who have had opinions that have not been approved and many have not been recognized as permanent needs, but continue every day in our country's public services to respond to permanent needs and therefore should have an effective link. It was also important to know what the PS intends to do about it. Mr António Gameiro, at the time when the PS seems to feel much more free hands in the current legislation, what does the PS want to do about the valuation of wages in the private sector but also in the Public Administration? This is because in the Public Administration, Mr, the PS had already had the opportunity to solve this problem but did not want to do it. It was important to know whether the Government and the PS are currently trying to solve the problem of the general valuation of salaries in the Public Administration and, of course, in the context of collective bargaining, to value these workers who are in the public services of our country every day, especially in schools, hospitals, health centres, finance, social security, justice, ensuring access to basic goods and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u63	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, even to finish, on the very concrete issue that has raised me, of course, that the facilitation of layoffs is an atrocity, inhumanization, even, and cruelty to workers. We naturally reject this path and we have proposals that also want to repeal serious rules of the Labour Code...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u64	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u65	... and the labour legislation of the Public Administration. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would say that combating these realities is, of course, a fight that the CFP will continue to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u66	Mr José Soeiro, from BE, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u67	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to congratulate the Portuguese Communist Party on bringing this issue to debate, in particular the question of wages which continue to attract an important part of the workers to a situation of wage poverty. It is a reality in which offensive inequalities remain at wage level and where, without truly having a balance in collective bargaining and under the conditions under which it is negotiated, particularly in the matter of expiry, we will have the maintenance of this imbalance. I brought the questions of precariousness from PREVPAP, which is being dragged in particular in the associated laboratories at the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) in the RTP — just to give some examples. He spoke of working times, which are increasingly deregulation, finding new ways to be prolonged, and referred to reconciliation with family life and the issues of parenthood, to which we will have the opportunity to return within days. He also referred to this characteristic of the world of work in Portugal which is the hiatus between written law and practice, hiatus that is fuelled by impunity with which employers violate the law, lack of means and action of the Authority for Labour Conditions ( ACT ) and the difficulties in access to justice. The Left Block has already presented in this Parliament a package of measures in the field of work to eliminate the cuts of troika that remain in labour law regarding holidays, overtime and lay-offs; to reduce working hours also in private for 35 hours; to combat precariousness and to relaunch and balance collective bargaining. But I would like to ask you one more question focused on a particular issue which is that of shiftwork. Last week, we learned from the data of the INE (National Institute of Statistics ) that there are 835 000 workers in Portugal who work on shifts. Since there is this statistical series, which began in 2011, it is the greatest value ever. In fact, shiftwork has grown by more than 5 % each year and this happens because, among other reasons, there is a total drop in commitments for continuous work and for this type of time. We therefore need, on the one hand, to regulate continuous work and also to protect workers by shift.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u68	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u69	In conclusion, Mr President: we need to protect shift workers with more vacations, early retirement and shift work allowance. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not understand that in view of this need and urgency, what the Government is presenting in this Budget is less than a compromise and much less than what is necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u70	To conclude the requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Diana Ferreira, who has listened very carefully. But when I hear her, there is a first question, besides others that I will ask her, which is in my head. I just didn't understand, after all, where the honourable Member and the CFP have been in the last four years. Anyone who heard what he said in the speaker's gallery would imagine that the CFP has not been supporting the government in the past four years, imagine that the CFP has not signed agreements with the Government party to enable it in the last four years and would also imagine that the Budgets have not been viable with the vote of the CFP. So what I would like to ask first is, after all, whose responsibility are these last four years? Is it not also PCP? This is because if the parties are responsible for putting out the sympathetic measures they can, they will, of course, be responsible for taking on what they have done together with the government. That would be good. I think I have morals to ask you this question, because the CDS, when it supported a government, has always been responsible for it and has always been supportive of good and bad. So I think it would be good for the PCP not to say that it has the rewards of everything that's nice for people and to shoot on top of the PS anything that's antipathic. Secondly, and speaking about the amendments to the Labour Code, I would like to remind you that it was with this Labour Code that you criticise so much, that employment began to increase in Portugal and that, fortunately, a cycle of employment recovery began. The CFP is concerned about the precariousness and the CDS is also concerned, although our solutions are radically different, as your regulations are going through more and more regulations, more and more prohibitions, and those of the CSD are, above all, creating more opportunities. What I would like to ask you, Mrs Commissioner, is that you are concerned about the precariousness, the opportunities and the level of the national minimum wage and wages in Portugal — which are low and we all want them to be higher — is that you can look outside of Portugal and see national minimum wages much higher than ours. I also wonder if countries that have higher minimum wages and wages than our own...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u72	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u73	Of course, Mr. President. I wonder if these countries have governments that apply what the CDS defends or if they have governments that apply what the CFP defends. I believe that what you will see in the countries that apply what you are preaching is much lower wages. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u74	Mrs. Diana Ferreira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u75	Mr President, I also thank Mr José Soeiro of BE and Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS for the questions they have raised. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you really like to run away from Portugal, probably not to take on the responsibilities that the CDS has...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u76	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u77	...in the concrete reality of our country. [[PCP applause.]] This is because, Mrs Deputies, the workers in our country pay today an invoice which is also the responsibility of the CDS and PSD government, for the destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs and for the destruction of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that have meant the worsening of unemployment. You know, Mrs Deputy, there are companies in the car industry that resort to two different temporary employment companies, one to guarantee workers during the week and one to guarantee other workers at the weekend. Do you know why, Mrs. Deputy? It is in order not to pay the workers who work on the weekend what they would be entitled to if they were properly compensated for their work on Saturday and Sunday. This, Mrs Deputy, was what allowed the amendments to the labour legislation that the PSD and the CDS also proposed in our country. [[PCP applause.]] This, Mrs. Member, is a responsibility of the CDS, PSD, and also PS, who did not wish to repeal a set of serious standards of the Labour Code when, in the past legislature, he had the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u78	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u79	Mrs Deputy, it was also important to know here, since she also talked about the general valuation of wages, as was the CDS vote on several proposals from the CFP for the increase of the national wage. It is that the CDS also gave the PS to reject the proposals presented by the CFP over the years to increase the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u80	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u81	Let us see how the CDS stands before the proposal that the CFP has already delivered an increase in the national minimum wage when it is voted on in the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to precariousness, whether it is in the private sector or in the Public Administration, it is very simple: all workers who constitute permanent needs of the State and of the private companies in our country must have an effective link, with all inherent rights, and they cannot go about jumping, with false green receipts and with abuse of long-term contracts, internships or scholarships, as is the case in many sectors of activity, in the Public Administration and in the private sector. It is very simple to resolve the question of precariousness: the permanent needs must correspond to an effective link. That is what the CFP has defended and presented here in the Assembly of the Republic and that the CSD has rejected successive times. Mr Soeiro, even to conclude, I naturally follow the set of concerns you mentioned here. The question of PREVPAP, which is already in progress, needs to be resolved at once, but also the situation of a number of other workers who have not been covered by PREVPAP and who continue to have precarious links. The Act needs more means, but it also needs that its sentencing decisions may have an executive title so that companies can effectively be penalised for infringements that are committed. Of course, in relation to the question of shiftwork and the limitation of continuous work, the CFP has already delivered initiatives on nightwork and shiftwork. We understand that it is necessary to limit this type of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u82	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u83	In conclusion, Mr President, we also believe that the rights of shift workers need to be strengthened, ensuring a set of benefits, in the face of the wear and penosity they are subject to. The commitment we make today is with the workers and the Portuguese people. Our proposals reflect that, and that is the fight we will continue to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u84	The next political declaration is the CDS-PP. To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: yesterday, more than ever, in the last few hours of yesterday, the State budget has been introduced into Parliament. At the entrance of this Budget we had little news. On the contrary, we had the fulfilment of some uses and traditions of this government: first, in time, with the theatre of hours waiting for a press conference that would only happen the following day, as it had already happened in the past year and in other years, but more importantly, in substance, with a document practically without reforms, without scratch and completely conforming to the role of Portugal as one of the least growing countries in Europe, systematically being exceeded in GDP rankings per capita by more dynamic and more competitive economies. To this serious problem of the Portuguese economy, this budget says zero. Thirdly, as usual, in revenue for balanced accounts, we have more and more tax burden. In the words of Minister Mário Centeno, « those who pay the surplus are the taxpayers ». Moreover, I would add, who paid the right accounts that the government so boasted were exactly the Portuguese taxpayers, with their effort. in this Budget there was also an unpublished fact. For the first time, when the Government, which has a relative majority, should also be focused on finding consensus in Parliament that would enable it to achieve the budget, it seems to be having a strange difficulty in finding consensus within itself, particularly between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. This budget has entered Parliament in a scenario of insurmountable tension within the Government between the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue has to be clarified and is not a personal matter, it is a political issue. On 9 October, the President of the Eurogroup, Mário Centeno, announced that there was an agreement on a budget for the euro area. It also announced a financial instrument for convergence and competitiveness. At the time, 'tweetou' said we have a deal. Well, on this same instrument, the Portuguese Prime Minister said that, and I quote, "it doesn't make sense, it's badly designed, it has to be remade. If the disagreement between them, according to the descriptions published in the national and international press, was quite embarrassing for those present in the Council, I must say that it is even more embarrassing for Portugal. Even more surprising is the explanation given. Mr Prime Minister has come to say this: the Prime Minister is responsible for representing the Portuguese and their interests. — the President of the Eurogroup is responsible for representing the general will of the Eurogroup. The question remains to be answered, ladies and gentlemen. Members, is it: after all, who is responsible for representing Portugal in the Eurogroup? Who, within the Eurogroup, defends the interests of Portugal? E — also relevant question — the Minister of Finance being President of the Eurogroup implies that no one in the Eurogroup defends the interests of Portugal? It would also be good to explain the following: Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury was at this meeting of the Eurogroup which approved this instrument. Therefore, of two: either Mr. Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State of the Treasury voted, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, against the interests of Portugal and against its instructions, and then it is good that the question is clarified because it is the international position of Portugal, or then they voted without the Prime Minister knowing and, as far as you can see, without the Prime Minister's mandate. This detail has to be clarified—it is not a detail, it is a relevant fact and it has to do with our interests. By now, I must say that it seems to me that the position of the Prime Minister of Portugal is the one that in fact most defends the interests of Portugal. First, because this matter is relevant and then because it is also relevant to understand who will execute this Budget. We must understand whether the Minister of Finance is here to stay or whether, as the effects of his policies become more visible and, above all, that the revenues and solutions—which are basically the increase of tax burden and captivating in public services—will become increasingly difficult to implement, because it is difficult to push problems with the belly every year, someone will come to deal with the consequences and he will follow other ways and other careers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of Portugal and the defence of the interests of Portugal abroad is neither a detail nor a personal matter between members of the Government, it is a matter of State and must be clarified in Parliament. On the other hand, the revenue that this Government has used Budget after Budget, year after year, is summed up to two things: one, increased tax burden, especially through a profusion of indirect taxes, where everything is excused to find new health taxes to the environment, through the increase of fines in economic activities; another, a constant postponement of the reform of public services and expenditure through captives without ever trying to change, reform or without requiring the administration of the public thing. This is a recipe that cannot continue and Portugal deserves a more demanding recipe. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u86	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, three Mrss have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u87	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u88	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP then has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the CDS-PP brings to this debate the subject of the State budget, whose budgetary procedure we will have time to discuss over another month. It is curious that the CDS is concerned about the so-called "tax burden" when it was part of a government that brutally increased taxes on the generality of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u90	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u91	They have lowered the minimum of existence, reduced the number of steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons ), from 10 to 5...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u92	That's not true! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u93	So you didn't come down? Does it not stop being indexed to the minimum wage and become indexed to the IAS (indicating social support)? More: increased taxes on lower and intermediate income and increased VAT (value added tax) from 6 % to 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u95	at the same time as requiring a huge tax effort to the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, the Government decided to lower the IRC ( Tax Code on the Income of Collectives ) from 25% to 21% to large companies. The memory is short, but not so much! Mrs Deputy, leaving the most general themes of the Budget for another occasion, wanted to take advantage of a proposal, which the CDS has already delivered in the form of a bill, with budgetary implications. The CDS bill provides for the reduction of the IRC rate from 21 % to 17 %. But there is one element that may have escaped anyone who consults your project: the CDS proposes the repeal of Article 87 (2). that of the IRC Code, that is to say, proposes that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises no longer have access to a reduced income rate of up to €15 000, which, according to the proposal of the State budget, submitted by the Government, may be extended up to €25 000. If your proposal was approved, even if the fees were equal in the two points, the fact is that the elimination of paragraph 2 ended with any possibility of reducing taxes on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as the CFP defends. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have already been tired of suffering because of CDS policies, since the application of the so-called « income law », which led to the dismissal of hundreds of small businesses and would now cease to have this positive discrimination within IRC. Only with this proposal do we know a little about what the CDS budget would be: less taxes on large companies and an end to one of the few positive discriminations that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have in tax matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u96	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u97	So my question is whether the CDS will even move forward with this budget proposal and if it does not think that small businesses have already suffered a lot from right-wing policies, always at the service of economic groups and monopolistic concentration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u98	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u99	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I listened to your statement and noticed that there was little talk about Budget, and then there was an interview to put a number of issues around matters that will be important but that will not exactly have to do with the budgetary theme. But I understand that you will have some difficulty talking about the Budget, a Budget that again presents a growth of incomes and better living conditions for the Portuguese. And that's hard for the CDS! In fact, there is nostalgia. Perhaps, he still remembers those Budgets, that brutal increase in taxes from the governments he was part of and that his party supported and also from that familiar and intended pension cut, which so much they defended. Therefore, nostalgia is noted about the Budget and therefore the difficulties are understood. The honourable Member has also talked about tax burden. Once and for all, does the CDS have to explain which country you want: is the country with 12 %, with 13 % or 14 % unemployed or is the country with 6 % unemployed and increasing contributions to social security? [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the answer that the CDS, once and for all, has to give. It is because the Socialist Party, in the previous government and in the present day, did not raise any of the main taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u100	Yeah, the accessories went up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u101	That is, we reduced IRC, reduced VAT and reduced IRS. What has grown was actually contributions to social security, and this results from the fact that there are more than 300 000 Portuguese people working. But this is the reality with which the CDS does not seem to want to comply, Mrs Deputy. I would now like to ask you a question, because this is the time to clarify these matters. I understand that the CDS wants to reduce taxes—we also want to reduce taxes, in fact, we would like to reduce more —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u102	Then cut it down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u103	...but it's good and, from my point of view, I'm serious about how we're going to do it. Question: The CDS, particularly Mrs Deputy, is available to explain to the Portuguese, without making demagogy and admitting that it does not want to increase the debt or increase the deficit and that it defends that the debt is to pay, where in particular will it cut to reduce taxes? You will have to say whether it is in transport, whether it is in rail, whether it is in health, whether it is in social support, whether it is in pensioners' reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u104	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u105	And then we'll have the answer, because it's important to be clear. They must explain to Parliament so that they can be taken seriously; if they do not, they will certainly be, as they were in the last elections, reduced to what they are today! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u106	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I welcome the statement you have made here on the State budget and I must tell you that we share your concerns. Let me tell you that this budget is more than the same, for two situations: it is filled with announcements equal to all the years of this socialist government, that is, it is always saying « now it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” On investment in the railway, « now it is! ; on investment in transport, « now it is! ; on investment in ships, "now it is! ; on investment in health, "now it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course, those who have faith believe; the other Portuguese will expect it to be even « now it is that it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u108	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u109	On the other hand—and for this there is no need to have faith, it really will happen—we have an increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u111	Last year, the government increased 9 taxes. Dr. Mário Centeno must have thought: « 9 taxes? Ah, that's a myguruc thing.' Therefore, this year, it does not propose 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14, but, yes, 15 higher taxes for all Portuguese. That is why this Budget is historic. Of course it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u112	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u113	It has the highest tax burden ever in the history of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u114	That's why it's really historical! Mr President, because I think that, within the time available, I will not be able to read all the taxes that this government is preparing to increase, I am sorry if it is beyond that time. So let us see: in the IRS, the increase of steps, which does not achieve inflation; in the IRC, the local housing activities; in the VAT, the bullochemical activities; the seal tax on consumer credit; the IMI (municipal property tax) for buildings in ruins; the IMT (municipal tax on the expensive transmission of buildings), with a new step for higher value houses; the ISV (Vehicle tax), at which the rates are increased by 0, 3 %; the IUC (Unique de circulation tax), at which ends the intermediate rate for light passenger vehicles; the tax on sugared beverages, whose rates are aggravated; the tobacco tax is increased by 0, 3 %; the tax benefits, which end for vehicles moved to GPL...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u115	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u116	Mr. President, let me finish the tax list. The ISP (tax on oil and energy products) ; the tax on online game ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u117	We never get out of here again!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u118	... the creation of new extraordinary contributions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u119	The honourable Member acknowledged that I would not have time to mention everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u120	... on suppliers of industry and on single-use packaging... Mrs Deputy, you are right: this is a historic budget for having the highest tax burden ever. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u121	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. I begin by replying to Mr Duarte Pacheco, telling him that this budget is in fact outstanding by the tax burden. to Mr Fernando Anastácio, first of all, I must welcome the unprecedented criticism. I have already been accused of many things; not wanting to talk about Budget was the first time I was accused of being a particularly unpublished critic. I don't think she'll confirm it in the next few months! In any case, I must say the following: I am very proud to have been a part of it and to have supported a government in which unemployment began to descend in Portugal. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u123	The honourable Member, unfortunately, could be proud if he did not, by any chance, become part of a party that supported the government in which unemployment began to grow in Portugal. In fact, this low unemployment path, which began in 2013 / 2014, continued in these years, and although it continued. Of course, you will never see the CDS lament. What I regret is that the revenue for these accounts and the path that you have used to reach these accounts — and note that I have never criticized or challenged the need for balanced accounts — has been the rain of indirect taxes. That's why the tax burden hits a record never seen. Never, in Portugal, such a large part of the wealth produced by the Portuguese was to the state. The honourable Member says this: 'we do not increase IRC'. » No, but they increased autonomous taxation at IRC, which substantially increased IRC's revenue. You have a creativity to invent taxes that is perfectly... Everything is sorry! Some will be taxed because of health, others will be taxed to defend the environment—and there come the plastic packaging! Then do you have to increase the fines on economic activities? Oh, my God! But why do you have to increase the fines? Are economic activities such a suspicious thing? Are you guys doing any harm in the first place? It is that I had the idea that the creation of wealth, in order to be distributed, was through economic activities. Your vision is that anything that is running well in the economy and that is private initiative the state arrives there and charges the lion's share. Our vision is contrary: it is that there will be more money to distribute and, above all, for the State to continue to exercise its functions, if the private initiative breathes and produces wealth. And that means that those who create it can also enjoy substantial part of it. This helps me to answer Mr Duarte Alves of the PCP who asked whether the CDS claims that less taxes should be levied on companies. Yes! The CDS argues that less taxes should be levied on companies. On the national minimum wages you are defending, I want to tell you that there are only micro-enterprises in countries where companies are taxed and, yes, in countries where there are large and medium-sized enterprises, because, Mr President, the countries in which parties like yours are governed, in fact, there are only micro-enterprises, because the others are all from the state and the only thing that there is a wage of misery, because their revenue, in no part of the world, has led to nothing but misery. And now, to Mrs Diana Ferreira, who said that I always wanted to run away from Portugal, I tell her that I have no problem leaving Portugal. I think, in Portugal, we should know how to look out and understand what's going right and what's going wrong so we can learn, there's no harm! Whenever Portugal looked out, it grew; whenever it didn't want to see anything else, it had more problems. But I'm telling you one thing: that's going out, it's not running away. Running away is from countries like North Korea. You know why? Because people really want to get out of there, but they're stuck there, the exit's not free. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u124	The next political declaration is for the NAP. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not new to anyone who is in the midst of a climate crisis. It is not new that Portugal is one of the countries of Europe that will suffer the most with the effects of climate change. In the context of the discussion of the State Budget for 2020, we will look at one of the main financing instruments of climate policy, the Environment Fund, to understand how it is that we are responding to this challenge. It must now be recalled that the Fund aims to support environmental policies for the pursuit of sustainable development objectives, including climate change, water resources, waste and nature conservation and biodiversity. By 2020 the Environment Fund budget is EUR 476 million. According to available budget data, it reverts to EDP — for the depreciation of the tariff deficit, to pay costs for energy production not reflected in consumer tariffs — an amount estimated at EUR 110 million, i.e. 23 % of the total environmental fund revenue. For the period 2013 - 2020, the European Trade in Emission Licences ( CELE ) scheme has changed to the option of creating a licensing scheme managed by the European Union, the revenue of which is returned to the States — it was an option « to pay to pollute ». In order to minimize the impacts of the option « pay to pollute », the European Commission, in the CELE Directive, argued without requiring that at least 50 % of the revenue should be directed at emission reduction actions. The option in Portugal was to direct up to 80 % of the revenue to reduce the energy tariff deficit. The energy tariff deficit resulted from past options to bear part of the costs of energy-producing companies, where the costs of EDP are highlighted. In practice, what EDP pays for CO2 is received to amortize past costs, not reflected in consumer tariffs. Furthermore, in 2017 alone, EDP received around EUR 100 million as a tax exemption on petroleum products, a perverse allowance for emission reduction. Given that in Portugal consumers pay one of the largest electricity bill in Europe, even with so many tax exemptions and state support, it will be to question the cost efficiency of national energy producers, in particular EDP. Only a minimum percentage of CO2 emissions revenues are spent on effective actions leading to lower emissions in Portugal. In 2019, only about 30 % of the allowances were allegedly directed towards this end. The question is that, in practice, most of these funds were applied in maintenance actions in the meters of Lisbon and Porto, and therefore do not constitute actions that produce significant reductions in emissions. Actions likely to lead the reduction of emissions in 2019 represent only about 10 % of the total emission licence revenue. By 2020, we continue with the same trend : the Environmental Fund transfers 23 % of its budget to the EDP ; transfers 19 % to the budgets of the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto, the CP, Transtex and the transport fund ; reserves 4 % for operating expenses of the Portuguese Environment Agency ; and it will also – it will – bear the costs related to the American occupation of the Lages base. And, in the end, Mrs. How much remains for projects, in particular, to mitigate and adapt to climate change, water resources, nature conservation, waste treatment and circular economy? A maximum amount of around EUR 80 million, i.e. 17 % of the environmental fund budget. Yes, only 17 % of the environmental fund's budget will be directed towards the purposes that determined its constitution! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one knows how much the country will have to invest to deal with the effects of climate change, but, using a per capita investment indicator of a World Bank study, we should be devoting annually to climate change adaptation actions, EUR 147 million. It is not with these environmental fund spending options that we will arrive there. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, find out the differences between the government's declarations of intent and its actions! Thus, we do not expect to increase investment in species conservation actions in 2020. The way we are exploring natural resources has been leading to irreversible impacts on biodiversity, facing us at the moment with the extinction of numerous species. In recent data released by the scientific community, there are 1 million species at risk of extinction, in a universe of 8 million plants, insects and animals. If, on the one hand, combined with poor management of natural resources, climate change contributes to reducing biodiversity, on the other hand, ecosystems play a key role in the global carbon cycle and adaptation to climate change. Soils, forests and oceans keep vast carbon reserves. The way habitats are managed will affect the amount of carbon released to the atmosphere, i.e. climate change reduces biodiversity and biodiversity reduction increases the intensity of climate change. The extinction of species calls into question the functioning of ecosystems, where human beings integrate, and with the destruction of ecosystems we question the balance of the planet, compromising our own survival. In Portugal, there are fundamental species for the operation of endangered conservation ecosystems, such as rabbit-breeding. This species is based on the diet of so many other protected species and also threatened, such as black-butre, bufo-real, aguia-de-bonelli, iberian aguia-imperial, cat-bravo or iberian lynx. While the Environmental Fund is used to finance various projects, in no way consistent with its objectives, the rate of loss of biodiversity and the risk of extinction of various species is accelerated in Portugal. In the specialized phase, we have to correct the distortion to which this tool is subject and the NAP will not lack that commitment. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u126	Mr André Silva, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen. Dir-CL will--me as you intend to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u127	I'm responding together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u128	Of course. Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, Mr André Ventura, for the important issue that you bring. [[Laughing.]] Excuse me! What is worth is that I did not use the word « shame» at least. Thank you very much, Mr André Silva, for the topic I brought here today on the Environment Fund. This is a Fund that actually brings together different types of funds that existed and that had different types of competence. However, the competence currently exercised by the Environment Fund is not the same as others. There are a number of areas that are neglected and are, indeed, neglected because there is a lack of financial muscle for them to have a real political application. There is a lack of financial muscle in areas such as, for example, efficient use of water and water resources, sustainability of water services, conservation of nature and biodiversity, and many others. The Environmental Fund is not actually playing its role, it is not performing the mission for which it was designed. In fact, it will be said that until « Fund » the only sense that can be used here is that there are environmental policies that have hit the bottom, that the circular economy has hit the bottom, that research and development in environmental matters have hit the bottom, that the decarbonization of industry has hit the bottom with this government. That is the only word that applies when we speak in the Environmental Fund! Financing practices for the circular economy, for example, are fundamental when the state is a large consumer and can help influence our industry and our business and economic fabric so that they have more environmental practices. The use of these funds is not at least practised by the Environmental Fund. The environmental dimension in our country's economy is equally important and, when we talk about the import of energy, which seriously aggravates our trade balance, we do not have sufficient financial instruments in the Environment Fund so that we can work on the energy transition of our industry. The current state of the Environmental Fund, Mrs. Members, indeed, it is an environmental state — I repeat, it is an environmental state — that cannot have any kind of calculation or measurement in relation to the policies that apply. We failed to see whether the measures applied have the true environmental return they should have. It is opaque this Environmental Fund, but it also reveals that government policies, in practice...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u130	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u131	I shall now conclude, Mr President. In practice, government policies are not green, I would say they are « verdinas », which are still very « verdinas ». In conclusion, Mr President, the question that I put to Mr André Silva on the subject which I brought here today, the Environment Fund, is the following: do you think that the funds are well distributed by different types of points and by different types of competence? Do you think that, indeed, does not affect the territorial cohesion of our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u132	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u133	Of course, Mr. President. Do you think this does not affect, too, what should be environmental standardization policies throughout our country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u134	In the meantime, it was written to ask for clarification, another Member, and Mr André Silva informed the Bureau that he will answer together. Mr. Nelson Peralta of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, the environmental fund's funds have been quite important from the social and environmental point of view for the programme for reducing the price of social passes, which is rejected in Parliament by the PSD, which now fills the mouth with many words of love for the environment. They failed there in defense of the environment! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But the Environmental Fund is — or should be — essential, too, for the protection of nature and it has failed decisively. Does he not consider it important for the Environment Fund to protect essential environments in carbon capture, from the marine prairies of the Aveiro River, the Formosa River and several estuaryes, including the Sado Estuary and the Troy Peninsula, ecosystems that are threatened by the dredgings today? Well, the Environmental Fund should preserve ecosystems essential to carbon capture, but also funding from the Environmental Fund itself is a mistake. They charge polluters to have the right to pollute, they charge fees on packaging, instead of being the Environmental Fund and the Government itself, through the State budget, to reorganise the economy to prohibit certain types of packaging, including secondary packaging, but also to ensure a wider transformation of the economy, from the outset with the electrification, modernisation and expansion of the railway, which is essential and necessary, through a strong investment of the State budget, and also with the reconfiguration of the way we produce energy. I am glad that coal plants will close, but much more needs to be done for renewable energy and for programmes of real energy efficiency, particularly in the homes of the most impoverished layers of society. That is why the Environmental Fund is short and fails to protect nature, because it has no concrete investment in protecting habitats essential to carbon capture and because it does not transform the economy to ensure a change in the form of energy production, how we move and how the poorest layers of the population live energy comfort in their homes. That is why money from the State budget is needed for this broader transformation of society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u136	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u137	That is why I ask, Mr President, if you do not agree with these measures that I have just stated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u138	You have the floor, for one last request for clarification, Mr. João Nicolau, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Silva, I believe that, for today's Wednesday, the PSD Members have not yet had the opportunity to read the State Budget carefully... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and to verify the continuity of the policy that the Socialist Party is implementing, of reducing emissions and decarbonization of the Portuguese economy. In fact, this is one of the main pillars of this government. Mr André Silva, as far as conservation of nature is concerned, is not in the Socialist Party's womb to escape the challenges and problems of the country. And the PS is here to consciously deal with the problems. We are aware of the need to resolve now a situation that should have been resolved for several years. I am talking about the Habitats Directive which has in fact strengthened the need for habitat protection and biodiversity conversation in general in all Member States, and which in practice translates into the Natura Network, which adds both the Special Conservation Areas and the Special Protection Areas relating to the protection of wild birds. successive governments have approved diplomas aimed at improving and more effectively transposing the Habitats Directive and implementing different measures aimed at preserving and safeguarding wildlife and flora, but we know it has not been sufficient. The Socialist Party is fully aware that it is necessary to do even more and better! And that is what the PS Government has done in the most various areas, but also in the conservation of nature, while already in the legislative process the publication of the regulatory decree classifying the Community Interest Sites in Special Conservation Areas as defined by Habitats Directive. As we know perfectly well, it will not be worth anything if there are no clear guidelines on the ground that safeguard the application of conservation measures and protected habitats. For this purpose, the Government has launched and implemented management plans and mappings in all Special Conservation Areas. It is a comprehensive survey and analysis work, but in the first half of 2020 a first package of 18 management plans will be published.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u140	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u141	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr President, may I ask you a question: do you know any faster way to solve this failure than to publish the diploma on Community Interest Sites and transformation into Special Conservation Areas and implement the management plans of each area? I think you do not know and the Socialist Party is here to solve the problems that need to be solved, particularly in the area of nature conservation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u142	Mr André Silva has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u143	Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his speech. Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho of the PSD, and Nelson Peralta of the Left Block, and I would like to say that we generally converge with your considerations. With regard to tax policy and packaging fees, we disagree with the Left Block. We understand that fiscal policy can be important, and it has been in practice — the studies demonstrate — to stimulate or deter consumption, whether positive or negative. And here we believe that the rate on packaging is positive from the point of view of the environmental perspective. [[BE's protests.]] Mr. João Nicolau of the Socialist Party, the subject that brought the debate here is a huge distortion that has been living in the Environment Fund for several years, perpetuated by the Government of the Socialist Party. The purpose of the Environmental Fund is to support environmental policies with various objectives. I will list some of them: mitigation of climate change; adaptation to climate change; carbon sequestration; efficient use of water and protection of water resources; prevention and repair of environmental damage; compliance with national and Community targets and targets for waste management; transition to a circular economy; protection and conservation of nature. What is happening is that only 17 % of the Fund is used in these objectives. If that was the only negative aspect, we would eventually be good, or we would be less bad, but the problem is that we have several failures, in particular, and as you mentioned, the failure to comply with the Habitats Directive. In fact, Mr. Member of the Social Democratic Party, if I would call myself André Ventura, now to you, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, would tell you something about your intervention when it says that "the PS is here to solve". The PS is the Government of the Plans, it is the Government of the Strategies, when there is a directive that is to be complied with over six years ago, in which the Court of Justice of the European Union has already condemned the Government and the Portuguese State because it does not declare 61 sites for special conservation, on which highly impacting economic activities are being carried out, such as the dredgings of Sado, Montijo airport, greenhouses in the Alentejo, etc. etc. And why do you continue to violate the Directive and not declare Special Protection Areas these 61 sites? Oh, my God! Precisely to develop your economic activities and thus increase the depredation of resources, the depletion of ecosystems, the increase in the rate of biodiversity loss and the list of species at risk of extinction, which continues to increase. I therefore tell you, Mr President of the Socialist Party, that, in the discussion in the field of expertise, we have in particular the Socialist Party, and now, by the way, also the Democratic Social Party, whose intervention I fully agree with, to correct this distortion and, in essence, to ensure that the Environmental Fund meets the objectives for which it has been destined and not just to cover budgetary holes to solve other problems and other issues, in particular to benefit highly polluting economic activities. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u144	We are moving on to the next political declaration of the ENP. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We attended the COP25, which took place in Madrid, in the parade of speeches announcing actions and decisions taken to combat climate change and to comply with the Paris Agreement, which determines the need for measures so that the average temperature of the planet will rise no more than 1, 5 °C. However, we are obliged to follow the words of Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, who stated that COP25 was a fiasco and a missed opportunity. Despite a worldwide appeal to the urgency of protecting the planet to which we call home, two hundred countries met to discuss adaptation and mitigation commitments and were unable to reach a final agreement that would ensure effective measures for the protection of the environment and nature. The appeals to which science hears, to which they observe the consequences that are revealed a little every day throughout the world and to which they jointly undertake commitments, even with a few years' delay, have fallen into a broken bag. Who are you asking for responsibilities? Mr. Secretary-General himself, Antonio Guterres? To the European Union, which says that it wants to lead the fight against climate change by announcing carbon neutrality for 2050, but that it has not been able to assume this role and that it has still presented us with its Green Ecological Pact, which has not even been able to involve all its countries and that it is nothing but a handful of nothing and anything else? Or to all those who, by filling their mouths with environmental protection, think it's "greening" of their businesses and profits, think it's in the carbon market, think it's buying and selling rights and making a lot of money with it, while ensuring that those who can pay can pollute? The heavy rains and the severe and prolonged droughts, the rising temperature that contributes to the freezing of glaciers and the consequent rise of the seas cannot continue to be ignored. It is not possible to continue exploiting natural resources as if they were infinite, in the name of profit for some. The poorest and least developed countries, those who contribute less to the total of global carbon emissions, the ones who suffer the most, in the declarations they made at COP25, warned of the difficulties they are experiencing in agriculture with soil salinization, the consequences for ocean pollution and even tourism. These are the most important areas for the economy of these countries and without them poverty will be greater. Where are the appropriate support for these realities? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal went to COP25 to announce, once again, the objective of achieving carbon neutrality until 2050. There should then be consistency between objectives and concrete actions. Great routes can be published for this neutrality, but when concrete actions run counter to these objectives, incoherence prevails and challenges a sustainable future. The Prime Minister of Portugal went to COP25 to say that Portugal is at the forefront of environmental policies and the Minister of the Environment went to Madrid to say that Portugal will comply and that Portugal will not admit that the others fail. Were they talking about the exploitation of lithium in soils classified as world agricultural heritage? Or the advance on natural gas exploration in Battle and Pombal? Or from public support for intensive agriculture, to the detriment of more sustainable agriculture, such as family farming? Or were they talking about building an airport in Montijo, in a nature reserve area of the Tejo? In order for the letter to hit the cheek, it is necessary to do what is necessary and not do what is harmful. Portugal has already suffered devastating effects of the climate change process, particularly with severe climate extremes, which have brute consequences, such as those we have unfortunately experienced with forest fires or with the Leslie storm. We therefore also have a great responsibility to point out the right paths. But there is hope: the inaction of States within COP25 and the action of peoples abroad were not coincident. The involvement of young people and society is growing, which requires concrete measures to deal with the consequences that are already being felt a little around the world. Where so many young people demand that their future be assured, the Parliamentary Group of the Greens will act to safeguard environmental and economic values, to protect populations and the territory, to combat climate change effectively and accordingly. Fight that it will be done by ensuring dignified living conditions for all peoples, that it will be guaranteed with policies of peace all over the world, that it will be as effective as it is in the fight against a perverse system that feeds on the death of the planet. This will ensure a sustainable present and future for future generations. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u146	Madam Member, the Bureau is still registering registration for requests for clarification. The attention of the honourable Members is called. Members to register during the speeches of the speakers. [[Pause.]] Five Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u147	Mr. President, I am replying together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u148	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u149	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Mariana Silva and the Green Party on bringing this important issue. I do not have a question to ask the honourable Member, but first to comment on his speech. Indeed, humanity is on the brink of the abyss. Maintaining the current level of emissions, in less than nine years we will go beyond the point of non-return of climate stability for the last 12 000 years and of life, as we know it. Once again, humanity was brought by the rulers in the interests of the polluting industries, despite the successive appeals of the population and the vast majority of States. The definition of Article 6 is urgent. that of the Paris Agreement, either by delivering the most ambitious emission reduction targets by States that allow for the limitation of global warming to a maximum of 1, 5 °C, or by defining market mechanisms leading to reductions in effective emissions and ensuring environmental integrity. With regard to the future sustainable development mechanism, we advocate the principles of non-double emission reductions, non-use of emission reductions from the Kyoto Protocol period to the Paris Agreement period, consideration of environmental and social principles in the implementation of projects and transparency in monitoring and reporting of emissions. We cannot continue on this path that will destroy humanity and our common home. Environmental resources cannot continue to have zero value in the world economy, and only through the impact of the value of the planet's resources on the options of economic agents will it be possible to avoid imminent calamity. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u150	To request clarification, Mr José Maria Cardoso of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u151	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, thank you very much for bringing this issue so pressing and so current the debate. I would like to say, in a manner of consideration, that, after a year when the world witnessed an unprecedented global mobilization, calling for urgency in climate action — huge demonstrations of young people worldwide — there was a widespread expectation that it would now have to be. What happens is that the world governments, which had this perfect opportunity to draw up and correct intervention plans, had a very frustrating response to these objectives. In fact, expectations ran high and were supplanted by that same frustration. The world leaders of convenience once again valued the economy, to the detriment of ecology, put politics at the service of the interests of fossil fuels, to the detriment of people and the planet. There were, in fact, many meetings, many conferences, many alerts. It is true that, in this respect, the issue has been placed worldwide in terms of the political and social agenda. But from the result of all of this, there is evidence: there is an increasing link between the interests and demands of people in relation to what is necessary to do and what really the rulers are willing to do. The slogan itself said it was "time to act", and it was in this perspective that ambition was created, that some agreement should be reached, that some agreement should finally be reached on what was important to do. In fact, this ambition has been mitigated. I have been present and have attended many presidential and ministerial speeches. I noted, for example, that the word'solidarity' was never part of the vocabulary of these speeches, that taking on its own responsibilities never consisted of those obligations. It was all, basically, a parade of own interests, each in his own cage, to discuss with each other the question of what was most contributing to the amendments. It is really frustrating to realize that not even the familiar article 6. that of the Paris Agreement, which enshrines the perverse carbon market, was able to be achieved. And even with a consideration that I find interesting, which is to think that five in five years is that COPs are worth it, transiting these questions to Glasgow next year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u152	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u153	... as if each of them, intermediate, did not justify itself, nationalizing the issue and admitting that it was in the front line of the releases of decarbonization, if we want to be consistent with these objectives, implies changing energy transition policies and changing paradigm. I would like to ask the honourable Member of the Greens Ecological Party to agree with the presentation and approval, hypothetically, of a basic climate law which sets out multi-annual goals and objectives and establishes a committee to monitor and monitor the measures to be implemented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u154	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u155	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, COP 25 has chosen exactly what we believe are the main limitations in addressing environmental problems. In addition to the usual postponement of decisions, COP 25 was, as Mrs Mariana Silva pointed out, a parade of intentions, intentions that are not, in Portugal too, accompanied by a critical assessment of the reasons leading to environmental degradation. Only that and the powerful interests that gravitate around this matter explain that they are being used as a solution exactly the same market mechanisms, the same deregulation, the same way of dealing with the real needs that lead us here to discuss. I wonder if the honourable Member also shares the feeling that it could have gone much further without remaining under Article 6. that of the Paris Agreement and the money each country theoretically will disburse. I also wonder whether the problem of the carbon market is not in execution, but on the idea: buying and selling the right to pollute, in a gigantic speculative business, with the European Union at the head, with banks selling carbon financial applications. This has been the alpha and the omega of international environmental negotiations. Just cut it out! The way of production, the liberalisation of international trade, the necessary logistics and the resources spent on production when oriented towards profit are ignored. So we are not reducing emissions and pollution. One country, region or industry that does not meet the goals can pay another to compensate them, maintaining their levels of pollution. It earns credits for investing in sustainable projects in a developing country. And there, Mr. Members, we are talking about compromising the sovereign development of the world by generating eternal dependencies. No, the problem of the carbon market is not in its regulation nor in its double counting, which is absurd, obviously. He is ineffective and perverse throughout the whole line. There will always be a tendency to take goals not according to the real possibility and environmental needs, but according to the economic results that are intended to be produced at every moment. The price of the tonne of CO2 subject to supply and demand generates several effects, which explains some of the negotiating blocks and contradictions, even between powers, to which we attended during COP 25. In addition, there are countries whose main aim is to ensure that Kyoto credits are transferred to the Paris market. I think we will agree to conclude that for the great ones of this world, the finance gentlemen, well compensates not to adopt substantive measures, not to pass on to cleaner energies, not to correct inequalities and asymmetries and to postpone the correct allocation of targets.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u156	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u157	What is needed is a fair policy, based on the principle of shared responsibility, but differentiated, because they are historical and cumulative, which allow the development of countries according to their needs, those of their people, harmonized with our planet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u158	To make requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u159	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, we all certainly expected more of this COP: 2019 was a year of great mobilization around the world around climate action and therefore people, civil society, international organizations, we ourselves, we would all certainly expect more of this COP. This COP was the opportunity to move on to broad steps and step up climate action by meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement. However, the commitments have fallen short of what reality requires. There is a divorce between countries that recognize the urgency of this climate action and those who deny it or do not prioritize it. We were all certainly expecting too much, and the small advances achieved did not come. The demonstration of intentions for the next COP is not enough, it is not enough to strengthen the financial instruments for aid to the most vulnerable countries. It is positive, but it is not enough, that there are more countries committed to carbon neutrality or that recognize the importance of the oceans. We all expected more and it is true that, even with less force than we would like, our Europe has marked a relevant position with the presentation of its green deal. Next year, in Glasgow, we will all renew our commitment to climate action. I wonder if the Greens are reflected in the European strategy and in the Green Deal and I wonder how the honourable Member understands that we should present ourselves to avoid the failure of the next COP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u160	To make requests for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party fully supports the statements by the Secretary-General of the United Nations regarding the conclusions of COP 25. The Socialist Party also regrets that the control mechanisms in relation to the NBCs of the various countries of Europe and at the global level have not been able to be taxed nor have agreement been reached with Article 6. or in this COP of Madrid. The Socialist Party also regrets that, in fact, there are carbon-producing countries and do not want to associate their levels of pollution with the discount of these same positive credits. The Socialist Party also regrets that for many years all cap-and-trade mechanisms in relation to the financial limitation of markets around carbon credit have not been imposed more rigorously. In 2018 the Socialist Party presented a national script for decarbonization. Any one of us who has the opportunity to read will understand the six areas of the industry where Portugal and the Socialist Party want to make moments of decarbonisation: agriculture, which are the measures perfectly described in each sector, as well as energy. I cannot fail to relativise an important issue: when we apply environmental fund funds to investment in electric mobility in public transport, I am unable, perhaps by my parliamentary inexperience, to see whether this same environmental fund cannot be used in the carbon removal of mobility. We find it extremely important that the economy be able to emerge from a register that takes value only on the financial markets and introduces it, in a concrete and urgent way, in the rebirth of the green economy that needs to exist at national level. The Socialist Party accepts, but questions, what for me and the Socialist Party is extremely important: within the exercise that we have to do until 2030, how and when should we make this fair transition and how will we optimize or sacrifice sectors that have industrial activity, but that at the same time must do this conversion? Perhaps this is how we should do it and think together. Our question is therefore the following: how can we make the fair transition by meeting all levels or all the NBCs that we should present in 2020 for national decarbonisation? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u162	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u163	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies André Silva, José Maria Cardoso, Alma Rivera, Bruno Coimbra and Ricardo Pinheiro. I think everyone agrees that the promotion and adoption of policies for adaptation or mitigation of climate change cannot be seen as spending, because we are, above all, defending human lives, preserving biodiversity and defending the economy and conditions for its development. Therefore, and responding to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, we believe that it is possible to reconcile the economy with the defense of nature, provided that the exploitation of natural resources is respected and it is not believed that they can be infinite. On the other hand, and also answering the question put by Mr Bruno Coimbra, how do we see the European strategy: can we agree with a European Union that wants to lead carbon neutrality by 2050, when this European Union itself defends and is in favour of agricultural policies that favour agribusiness, tearing down family agriculture and promoting the desertification of the interior? The European Union which establishes measures to support sustainable agricultural practices with environmental benefits, with respect for the protection of the environment and the rural landscape, natural resources and soils, as is the case with the Second Pillar of the CAP, but which — let it be said! — is it channelling these funds into large intensive productions, as is the case with olives and peanuts? In meeting also what Mrs Alma Rivera said, can we go with the European Union in the defence of the carbon market, where rich countries can pollute because they have money to pay, harming the development of the poorest countries and making them even poorer? It is not worth pointing out only the flag, it is necessary to change policies, and this change is not written only in a government programme, it is not written only in a state budget, it is not written only on the roads for the carbonic neutrality of 2050. People continue to travel daily in public transport, which is the one that should have priority of investment, and therefore it is not enough to say that if they are going to make the investment, they must move from intention to practice, and that is not what is happening. Will this government want to open public services in the interior or will we continue to believe that the use of a pass only in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto at acceptable prices is sufficient? Are we going to have the ability to measure the whole country? Are we going to have the ability to open the rail lines inside, which are so necessary, so that these populations are no longer isolated? These are the issues that we should also mention in what might be our contribution to decarbonisation. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u164	The political declaration of the Socialist Party follows. To that end, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2020 deepens and develops the good policies of the past four years, paying attention to the needs of the present and the eyes set in the future. It is a State budget which reflects the commitments of the Socialist Party's electoral programme and which reflects the measures provided for in the Government Programme, discussed in Parliament for weeks. It is a Continuity Budget, which safeguards the progress achieved in the previous legislation, in particular in the area of income recovery and social rights. It is a budget that gives continuity to the good policies that have led to the creation of 350 000 jobs, the increase in the income available to families and the reduction in social inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that continues and reinforces the policies that have boosted the growth of our economy which, three consecutive years, has grown above the European average. It is a careful budget, aimed at strengthening the support of those who need the most, such as young people entering the labour market, the poorest elderly and people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that responds to the needs of the present, with the strengthening of the investment in the National Health Service, transport and housing. It is a friendly business budget, which reinforces support for internationalisation, exports and reinvestment of profits. It is a budget with the eyes set in the future, which fights climate change, responds to the demographic challenge and takes advantage of the opportunities of digital society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget has well-defined priorities. The National Health Service is the high priority of the State Budget for next year. Over the past four years, the investment in the National Health Service has exceeded EUR 1000 million, a financial effort that allowed to reverse the degradation cycle to which the National Health Service was voted by PSD and CDS between 2011 and 2015. The next step is to strengthen investment in health. The budget allocation of the National Health Service for 2020 increased by EUR 2000 million compared to 2015. Next year, the National Health Service will have more doctors, nurses and more diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. The number of consultations and surgeries will continue to increase. New health centres will be built, others will be re-qualified and more family health units will be created. Requalification works will be carried out in a set of hospitals, moderate rates will be reduced in the provision of primary care and we will see the start of pilot projects to support informal caregivers throughout the national territory, which include the allocation of a support allowance to the caregiver. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another priority will be investment in public transport. Investment in railway infrastructure will go through the Douro, the West, the Algarve, the Mino and the North,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u166	What about Alentejo? Where's Alentejo?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u167	... by the international corridors North and South and by the networks of the Port Metro, Lisbon and by the World Mobility System. Next year, new buses, ships and cars from CP ( Trains of Portugal) will be at the service of improving public transport. A third clear option in this Budget is to improve the conditions for access to housing. The budget for housing policies is strengthened. Programme 1. the law will enter at cruise speed next year, a would look like between the Central Administration and the municipalities that are creating housing solutions for people who live in angry housing conditions and who are in very difficult economic situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Tax incentives for the Accessible Rent Programme will also be strengthened so that more housing is made available on the rental market at affordable prices, especially for the middle class. Another major budgetary option is to intensify the fight against poverty by strengthening the tools that have been most effective in reducing poverty among young people and the elderly. The minimum wage is increased to €635, the lowest pensions are increased above inflation and the solidarity supplement for the elderly is extended so that in the short term, no beneficiary of this benefit remains below the poverty threshold. Family allowance is increased for children between 4 and 6 years of age and the third stage of social inclusion benefit is applied to all persons with disabilities who benefit from this benefit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A fifth priority is to support the entry of young people into the labour market. The Budget provides that young people between the ages of 18 and 26 who end secondary education or higher education and enter the labour market can benefit from a significant reduction in the IRS during the first three years of work. The priority of this Budget is still to strengthen support for enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). SMEs who decide to reinvest their profits will further deduct in IRC — the maximum deduction of reinvested profits increases by 20 % to a maximum of EUR 12 million. SMEs with a taxable amount of up to EUR 25 000 will benefit from a reduced rate of 17 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State budget for 2020 does not fall back to any extent adopted in the previous legislation. On the contrary, all progress achieved since 2016 is consolidated in this Budget. It is a budget that pursues the income improvement policy, especially that of people with lower economic conditions. More than 30,000 families will stop paying IRS due to the update of the minimum existence. The salary increase of the Public Administration will be resumed, which has not taken place for 10 years. This wage increase, coupled with the impact of progression measures, promotion and combating precariousness, means that the average remuneration of the Public Administration by 2020 is 3,2 %. The social energy tariff, the supply of school textbooks and the single pass are measures that will continue to alleviate the fixed family charges by 2020, thus improving their available income. It is a Budget with a strong bet on the appreciation of the interior. It is a budget that strengthens cooperation with the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. It is a budget that accelerates public investment, thus responding to the National Investment Plan recently approved in this Parliament. It is a responsible and credible budget, with accurate and balanced accounts, and which are still essential in the course of reducing public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u168	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President. This budget policy has saved hundreds of millions of euros each year in favour of public investment. Today, interest on Portuguese public debt is lower than interest on Spain and Italy. We defend that the State has an obligation to accompany the efforts of families and businesses in reducing indebtedness. Therefore, the budget surplus, in addition to being a historic milestone in the consolidation of public accounts, is another step forward in reducing public debt, and reducing public debt means combating the greatest threat to the sustainability of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the line of continuity of this Budget is therefore deserving of renewing the support of all those who have helped to build the progress achieved in the previous Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u170	Mr João Paulo Correia, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u171	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u172	You have the floor, then, for a first request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about continuity, and the question to be asked is the following: continuity in relation to what? This budget, like the previous one, is presented by a minority government of the Socialist Party, but this is not continuity. The meaning that PS seeks to convene when it speaks in continuity is another. The PS seeks to convene the continuation of approved budgets within the framework of a parliamentary majority that no longer exists, because the PS did not want to make legislative agreements ; continuity of negotiated left budgets, which received left-wing proposals that made visible steps in reducing the IRS, reducing propines, increasing pensions, early reforms. That was not the course of this budget proposal, which we generally know. We agree that the proposal is insufficient, that investment is insufficient, that there are no concrete commitments where there were previously agreements with the left and the proposals that were put forward in the negotiations were not accepted. The Budget is limited to tabling proposals that had already been negotiated and approved in the previous Parliament, conditioning its implementation by 2020. That's not continuity. This is the budget of the budget surplus presented by a minority Government of the Socialist Party. So what I would like to ask is whether we really think that we should let the European Commission decide for us how to reduce the VAT on electricity, whether we think that the Budget does not have to decide on what is going to be the increase in pensions or the supplementary scheme for elderly people, whether we consider — and I ask you whether you have already seen the budget maps — that we have to accept a Budget that has room for housing that is less than half what the PS has promised in the election campaign and that they do not come to comply with the 1 Programme. o Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u175	There is therefore an inconsistencies between what is stated in the State report and what is included in the Budgets for Housing maps. Do you really think that shift workers have to continue to wait for an answer in order to have more rights? Mr President, there are no threats, because those who do not have an absolute majority cannot want to rule on the basis of the threat, is the answer to these questions which will decide whether or not this is a Continuity Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u176	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Afonso Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u177	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, was too enthusiastic in his political statement. With regard to the Budget, she has used the word 'continuity' three times and now Mrs Mariana Mortágua has said the word 'continuity' again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u178	I don't think you understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u179	That is the problem: this is a continuity budget and it should not be, Mr President. over four years, the Socialist Party announced the end of austerity. The Socialist Party and the parties on its left, management, have repeatedly announced the end of austerity. They announced that everything was at the thousand wonders, that Portugal was an example to follow, that we lived in the best of the worlds and that the Portuguese would regain purchasing power. As we know, the problem of the Socialist Party, as we have seen today in this political statement, is reality. The reality is it's ruining everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u181	The reality is always imposed, regardless of the narrative. And the reality the Portuguese know well is that every year they bear more taxes. Every year, the government can reach new tax burden records and the 2020 budget will once again be recorded in the tax burden. My first question, Mr. João Paulo Correia, is the following: how is it possible for the Socialist Party and the Government to convince the Portuguese to like a budget that has more tax burden than the previous year? This is the central issue! In addition to continuity, is one of the central issues to be seen how it is possible to support a State budget for 2020 where the tax burden is much higher than that of the previous year? If we were government — we are not — it is true, because we did not win the elections, although there are those who have ruled without having won the elections — our path would be completely different: of course, we would make the way of gradually going down the tax burden, going down the IRS. That would be our way. Therefore, Mr President, this is a central question which I would like to clarify. Mr President, I have already realized that my time is running out, but I ask you for tolerance to ask another question. This fifth budget of a new government now four years old — this is a new government four years old — is a fact again also the budget of the lack of public investment. It is not worth it, Mr. João Paulo Correia, to say that they will bet on public investment, that they will bet on health, that « now it will be». I have high expectations for the year 2020, because I already realized it will be the year in which « it will be », but the fact is that by 2019 the public investment forecast was equal to that of 2020. The problem is reality, the problem is the way that this Budget meets.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u182	You're going to have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u183	The question is this: is this year 'will it be' in public investment? Is this year 'will it be' in taxes, Mr João Paulo Correia? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u184	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u185	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, I would like to begin by recalling that the largest share of tax revenue is based on three large taxes : VAT, IRS and IRC. over these four years, and also in the State Budget for 2020, there has never been an increase in any VAT rate, no IRS rate and no IRC rate. On the contrary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The rate of VAT for restoration has fallen, the IRS rates have fallen, new steps have been created of the IRS, the overtax has been eliminated. Do you know how the right has voted for all these IRS drop-down and VAT rate drop-down proposals? He voted against! They weren't for tax relief! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u186	It's a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u187	Therefore, Mr Afonso Oliveira, it is important that the cotton test be done here. The PSD must also decide. in these days, with regard to the delivery of the State budget, we have heard the PSD say, in the morning, that more taxes need to be dropped and, in the afternoon, that public investment needs to be increased. So, tell me there, sir, how are you going to do? It's just the tax comes down, the recipe goes down. If public investment increases even further, expenditure rises. You have to say, if it's to do this, what's the cost that you're going to cut or what taxes is that you're going to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are they going to increase taxes? Say what the taxes are! What's the cost you're going to cut? Is it staff spending? Is it in the National Health Service? Where are you going to propose to cut that expenditure, sir? Mr President, replying now to Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block, I would say that we believe that this State budget is of continuity because it has a strong political left-wing orientation burden. We have no doubt about this, because to strengthen investment in the National Health Service is to give continuity to what has been done in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To strengthen investment in public transport, rail, in the acquisition of rolling stock, as is being done, is to give continuity to the State budget of the previous legislation. Strengthening the budget allocation in the single pass is to continue one of the flagship measures of the previous legislation. And to strengthen social benefits, which have helped to drastically reduce poverty in Portugal, which have helped the younger and the older, to increase the family allowance—which is increased again in 2020, giving continuity to the previous legislation—the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social benefit for inclusion, the lower pensions, all of these are measures that give continuity to the previous budget. We therefore have no doubt that those who helped build the measures that made Portugal and its economy succeed in achieving the results that are known both in terms of economic growth and in terms of increasing the income available to families, or in terms of reducing poverty, are sure that it cannot be against the measures that are part of this State budget by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u188	Further to the requests for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, the PS has decided to bring to this debate the theme of the State budget for 2020. We will have plenty of time to discuss the Budget, after analyzing its concrete contents. For now, with regard to this proposal, which is the sole responsibility of the PS Government, we stress that, not taking any step back in what has been achieved in recent years, the proposal submitted does not go forward and in various plans even impedes the necessary pace of progress that would be necessary to respond to the most immediate problems facing the population and the structural problems of the country. Mr President, the budget that the country needs is not a budget of submission to the Brussels taxes, which aims to achieve a budget surplus above the actual needs of the country. The country needs a budget that responds to workers, valuing their wages and rights; a budget that responds to pensioners, ensuring the continuity of extraordinary increases in pensions, initiated in the previous legislation on the initiative of the CFP, ensuring a minimum increase of €40 throughout the current legislation; a budget that responds to the need for investment in public services, in particular in health, education, culture, transport; a budget that reduces taxes on lower and intermediate incomes and which more adequately taxes on high value income and heritage. It will say the PS that budgetary balance needs to be ensured. So we ask: is the PS available to end PPPs (public-private partnerships) reducing the expenditure of millions of euros delivered to private groups? Is the PS available to advance in compulsory enclave, ending with the possibility of capital income being taxed at lower rates than labour income of the same value? How is it justified to continue to deliver hundreds of millions of euros to the New Bank, as provided for in the proposed budget law? Mr. Deputies, the CFP does not give up any battle before it breaks down. The CFP's commitment is to act to achieve everything that is positive and necessary to respond to the interests of the workers and the people. in this Budget, as in all others, is our criterion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u190	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u191	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, I will ask you three questions at the beginning and three at the end. On the last four years — and since you said that this was a continuity budget — I wanted to ask you three very simple questions. If the governance of the Socialist Party and the budgetary management of the Socialist Party have the success that the honourable Member has announced here, why do we not grow any more? Why have almost all the countries that can compare with us grown over the past four years more than Portugal? And countries that, shortly before the crisis, had far more fragile economies than Portuguese. We have already seen that the comparisons, for example in the Budget Report, are made in the following way: if we except Ireland and the enlargement countries, Portugal had a'so or so' performance, i.e., as soon as we left, we were almost half of Europe to be able to compare ourselves with someone. Therefore, you have to tell us where, from the point of view of economic growth, the success of the budget management of the PS is. The second question that I put to you is: why are there more and more European Union states that have a higher performance than ours? In recent predictions, we can only compare ourselves to Lithuania, there is no one else to whom we can compare. Why, for example, in GDP per capita, in income for each Portuguese, have we gone down for the last four years and are we also behind the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union? Where is the success of the Socialist Party's governance in budgetary matters? It is certainly not on the Portuguese day-to-day basis, because the Portuguese day-to-day, according to these indicators, is not strong enough when compared with that of the European partners. The three questions I wanted to end by asking you about this State budget have to do with the following: is it possible to tell me how many family aggregates have two children under the age of three? This is for us to know where the propaganda ends and where the effective implementation of the Budget that you present here begins. How many families can benefit from this measure? Then, how many young people between the ages of 18 and 26 receive enough to benefit from the measure granted to them at IRS? It is because, in order to know what the impact of the measures brought here, we need to know because, in order to pay IRS, we need to have enough income for this, because otherwise it is left out — how many young people between the ages of 18 and 26 have a level of income to benefit from this. This is to know, once again, where the propaganda ends and where the effective implementation of the Budget begins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u192	Mr President, you have to shorten the last question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. It's really the last one. Finally, I would like to know how much the tax burden will go down so that we know how much this budget, which benefits Portuguese so much, will degrade their tax revenue. This is to know where the propaganda ends and where socialist governance begins. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u194	To reply, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u195	Mr President, reducing public debt is a major objective for our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u196	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u197	Public debt is the biggest threat to the sustainability of our economy. Pretending that we don't have this problem in front of us is a horrendous mistake. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u198	How many percentage points have been raised in socialist governments? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u199	Therefore, it is indisputable that one of the ways to reduce public debt is to have positive balances in public accounts, because this positive balance is fully channelled to reduce public debt. This is, however, essential for the sustainability of future generations, a matter which certainly concerns all parliamentary banks. But this consolidation of the public accounts and the good results we have had in terms of budgetary deficit — and now surplus — and also in terms of reducing public debt have allowed our country to pay less and less interest on public debt, with this savings in public debt interest allowing to increase public investment year after year. Another fundamental issue that shows the resistance of our economy—especially those who have prophesied every year that the devil is coming, even though he never gets there again— is that the investment in GDP is increasing year after year, so the investment weight in GDP in our economy in 2020 will be higher than the average of the European Union, the same with respect to the weight of exports in GDP, which will grow above the average of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Then, it is very curious to hear the CDS now concerned about the young people who were once part of a government invited to emigrate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u200	How many are there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u201	It is interesting to hear the CDS now concerned about young people, when he voted against previous budget measures that met what the young most needed: their emancipation and their entry into active life. It is also interesting to hear the CDS now concerned about families with children, because you were responsible, with the PSD, for the introduction of the family quotient in the IRS, which led families with more money to have more deductions in the IRS than families with less income. And it was the previous government that introduced the specific deduction per child, which allowed in Portugal, between 2016 and 2018, in three years, families to deduct, within IRS, more than 500 million euros than they deducted in previous years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u202	The base isn't the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u203	This fact says everything about what was the effort to reduce income taxes, including the reduction of income taxes for those families who are in very difficult economic situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u204	For a political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Leite Ramos now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : ended yesterday the first period of the 2019 / 2020 school year. The possible balance shows that in education—we have already said it, repeated it and repeated it again—we live of propaganda, enlightened experimentalism, half-truths, fictional numbers, promises always postponed, many hidden cuts, in the juggling of accounting. A lot is announced, little is achieved — "a lot of sheep and a few grapes", as our people say, and the injured are invariably the same: the students. What we have, indeed, is an Education Minister who assumes his non-existence as a revenue for the maintenance of office and who, in the taste of the news, says what he does not know, cuts in what he should not, assumes what he does not do and has no intention of fulfilling and promises what he cannot. This was the case during the four years of the first socialist government, in which the word that ruled education was « to undo ». Everything indicates that the formula will be maintained in this Legislation. That's the conclusion we can draw from this first quarter. While the government continues to welcome the supposed good start of the school year and the alleged good results of education reform, we have national and international indicators to alert us. And more than that, we have the reality, that the whole school community is tired of being ignored, going to the streets to protest. We have schools closed for lack of employees, which this Minister himself says has strengthened. We have students without classes and without teachers, that this minister says he has valued. With the motto of a policy of continuity, we have indeed continuity. But where? In public investment, which is reflected in non-interventional schools with degraded asbestos; in the non-replacement of the technological park of schools; in services and schools strangled in human and material resources, where what now prevails is the "game of push" between government and authorities. The government doesn't take responsibility, it doesn't solve. Only those who suffer the consequences are that they are well identified: once again, the students. Now, the argument that the blame is on the previous government can no longer be used. What is a pity, because now it is indeed true! It was the Socialist Government and its left-wing partners who made the political choices that we are reaping today's results. [[PSD applause.]] The problem of lack of employees in schools is not new, but was substantially aggravated in 2016. And since then, despite the denial of reality and the hollow rhetoric of reinforcement, the same level of functional response that existed in 2015 has not yet been reached. The last few years have served the same Minister of Education to undo politics, to go back, to return to the indexes, always with an inverted speech. It was four years of achievement that every day reached more expressive proportions. Failures are obvious and make headlines every day. But the Minister prefers to ignore them and defend himself with horses. It will announce to this Parliament the strengthening of means, contracts for the hiring of staff, which either either do not withdraw or are manifestly insufficient or cancelled. And outside, his words echo in locks that close doors of schools, which do not work due to lack of minimum conditions to ensure the monitoring and safety of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u206	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u207	The Minister comes to this Parliament to talk about numbers which he alone knows, swearing, on foot together, that the new ratio was being fully fulfilled. And out there, what we know is that there are hundreds of schools where the ratios are not met. Professionals do not arrive to accompany students, many of them with special educational needs, do not arrive to keep laboratories, libraries, gymnasiums and other services open. In 2016, the guardianship there was assuming some staff shortcomings, but merely punctual. We are in 2019 and now the argument has changed to the bad will of the school leadership. Recognizing the existence of real problems in schools is something that does not go through Mr. Minister's head. Minister, the worst blind is the one you don't want to see! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u208	We have warned that the diploma of inclusive education requires increased needs, revised ratios, effective ground knowledge, confrontation with reality. We were olympically ignored. We were told by the government and the PS bench that everything had been carefully designed, planned, and all of the curated needs. We have once again been nicknamed « arautos da mishap ». Unfortunately, the facts again gave us reason. However, the guardianship has already stated that by 2020 the ratios will have to be revised. Perhaps in 2021 we can expect the Socialist Government to be able to restore the functional response level of 2015 — six years later! What shows that education has not been, nor is it, a priority for this government, a stage of experimentalisms, thoughtless steps, precipitation and ideological whims, without measuring consequences, without precaution of needs. This first quarter was also marked by the continued de-investment. Again, rhetoric and propaganda speak of modernization, of new technologies, of digital transition. But practice translates into an increase in bureaucratic workload for teachers, an obsolete technological park and a Simplex + that has not passed the gates of educational establishments. It will be in 2020! - it's the promise. It was already in 2016 and is now continuing in 2020. The obvious question is how the promise will be fulfilled if the budgeted value for expenditure on the acquisition of capital goods is again decreasing by 2020 — it is less than 17 % compared to 2019 — and the Simplex + measures decrease 35 % compared to 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u209	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u210	The possible balance at the end of the first school period is a growing concern of families with the state of degradation of hundreds of schools and, in particular, with the presence of asbestos and degraded fibrosis plates, naturally harmful to the health of their children. Between 2013 and 2015, 299 schools were intervened. In 2016, the Minister of Education stated that the removal of asbestos was a priority and that what he has done « is to act so that all interventions can resolve this issue of asbestos plates ». Mr. Prime Minister promised in this Chamber that after 2018 there would be no schools with asbestos. There! A lot! We only don't know how many because the government refuses to tell this Parliament and the country how many they are. Now that the guardianship of solving the problem of asbestos has moved to finance, it will be the king of the captivations to decide when our children will no longer be subject to study in buildings with asbestos and degraded fibrosis plates. Let's wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u211	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u212	Finally, Mr President, this is the reality of Portuguese schools and it is not important that promises are written on priorities and on the strategic relevance of education to the future of the country. This government does not invest in schools, does not value or credibility teachers, does not believe in students. This government is mortgageting the future of our young people in this country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u213	Mr President, the Bureau has registered five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u214	Together, I will answer the first three and then the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u215	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u216	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet Mr Luís Ramos for bringing the issue of education to the debate. In fact, from north to south of the country, there have been numerous difficulties in our schools, leading to closures due to lack of personnel, lack of school transportation, lack of political will to solve problems that are no longer present and have been dragged along successive governments. There is much to do about education, the placement of several professionals in schools, the identification and response to permanent effective needs, inclusive education, the withdrawal of asbestos from our schools. However, we would like to talk specifically to you about the study of the National Council of Education on the selection and recruitment of teaching staff, which concludes that Portugal has neither, nor has it, a prospective plan for the teaching profession and alludes to the need for structural reconstruction in this matter. The attractiveness of the teaching profession has become increasingly low. The dissatisfaction and state of wear of these education professionals, of our teachers, is manifest in the face of late and distant placements in relation to places of residence, without incentives and reduced schedules. As I said earlier, there is a lack of incentives for mobilisation and travel, lack of teachers in certain areas and certain recruitment frameworks and a lack of the wisdom of teachers with more years of experience. So, Mr. Luís Ramos, we would like to ask you what the Social Democratic Party is going to propose to solve these problems. Do you recognize the importance of valuing, dignifying and stable these professionals and will bring in initiatives aimed at solving these same problems? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u217	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u218	Mr President, I thank Mr Luís Leite Ramos for bringing the debate to the issue he referred in his political statement. I would like to recall yesterday's hearing by the Minister of Education, in which we spoke, for example, on the subject of employees. We heard yesterday — I would say, but this is only my opinion — that the Minister of Education is a bit lost in this matter. Otherwise, let us see: at the beginning of November, after the start of the school year, Mr Minister gave an interview in which he said there was no structural problem with the lack of employees in schools, but that there would, in fact, be occasional problems that had, above all, to deal with disease casualties. I recall, as we are in budgetary time, that the Minister of Education had entered into the State Budget for 2018 a sum of EUR 10 million for the fight against absenteeism, which would be a saving that the Ministry would do. In the 2019 budget, this amount for the fight against absenteeism continued to be entered and was EUR 6 million. This year, it seems, as soon as the replacement mechanism for disease was transposed into schools, there were already 600 replacements. Therefore, apparently, little has been done in previous years regarding the fight against absenteeism, since there have already been 600 substitutions for this reason. The Minister of Education says that the problem is no longer a matter of time. Now, the problem is structural and that is why in the State budget the idea of revising the gate of ratios appears again, because it takes a new door to solve this problem at once. I just wanted to recall that this novelty appeared on Monday, when, on the previous Thursday, it was plunged into Parliament, by the PS, a series of projects presented by the PCP, the Bloc and the PAN, which aimed exactly the revision of the portfolio of ratios. So first the problem was structural, then it had to do with casualties and now it is structural again, but it has to be the government to solve it. It cannot be the Assembly of the Republic to do so through the parties that were partners, but they are no longer. Mr President, we never know exactly what the outcome of the government's education policy is, because the government has a bad practice of not making it transparent. But my question is simpler than that: what seems to you to be the ability to rely on this Minister of Education and on the budget proposal, when we see this navigation in view, which, depending on the political moment, both goes to one side and to the other? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u219	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u220	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, in these matters, and allow me the analogy, the PSD is like Schrödinger's cat — it is now alive, it is now dead and even, at the same time, it is alive and dead. But he keeps being a cat, and barely hidden with his butt outside. You come here today, in the role of live cat, concerned about public school, the lack of workers, the schools that close for lack of assistants, administrative, specialist technicians, but last week, Mr. Deputy, you did the role of dead cat...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u221	The PCP made cat dead for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u222	... when a PCP project was in the vote recommending the immediate hiring of workers in lack of public school. And what happened? Did you vote in favour? Don't! He preferred to make the lead viable and leave the problem unsolved. The same can be said about removal of asbestos and about so many other problems that have been left unanswered by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u223	With PS, removal of asbestos, zero! And the PCP applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u224	That is, live or dead, the PSD does not cease to be a cat, both in opposition and when it is in government, because, in all the policy options structuring the public school, what it defends, practice and implements are the right policy solutions that, at the expense of the Constitution, impose the underfinancing, precariousness, lay-offs, the absence of democratic management, the social and professional devaluation of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u225	You're talking to a mirror!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u226	... the elitization of teaching, the deepening of social stratification and the reproduction of inequalities. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Calm down, Mr. Deputies! Calm down. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, good parties, but it will not be with the help of the PCP that this cat will go to the sons, because what is needed is a different policy, of insubmission to the private interests that attack the public school. It is in this fight that you can always find the PCP, without giving up any battle before you freeze. How are you going to vote on the PCP's recurrent proposals on teaching careers, on retirement, on working hours, on combating precariousness, on the replacement of specific careers, on strengthening school social action, on democratic management?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u227	They've been in the box for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u228	How will the PSD vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u229	And how will the PCP vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u230	We already know: live or dead, the PSD will continue to be a cat. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u231	You have the floor to answer, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u232	Mr President, I thank Mrs Bebiana Cunha, Mrs Rita Bessa and Mrs Mesquita for the questions they have asked me. Starting with Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I wanted to say that we consider that the only way to value and credibility the school is, of course, to value the teachers. [[PSD applause.]] We have always said it and I fear that it is not in the perspective of the Communist Party, the Left Block and even the Socialist Party itself want to do so, that is to say, by some extent instrumentalizing the public school, but by giving the real schools autonomy and capacity to manage teaching and, in some way, to value it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u234	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, really, the hearing of the Minister of Education was exemplary and I was waiting for Mrs Ana Mesquita to repeat what she said yesterday to Mr Mesquita. I'm surprised and surprised to see you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u235	Is the PSD government? The PSD isn't in the government, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u236	You changed the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u237	And you know why, Mrs. Member? Because the PCP cat's got his ass stuck. [[PSD applause.]] He's got his ass in jail and he's got his ass in four years. In four years, I repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u239	And it is only now, at the end of four years, that you have discovered that the Minister does not exist, that he is incompetent and incapable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u240	He's wrong! You've been very careless, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u241	He has for four years supported and supported this education policy and, of course, I understand the inconvenience.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u242	How will the PSD vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u243	I understand your situation, thus wanting to shake the water from the hood.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u244	How will the PSD vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u245	During the past four years, while Mrs. Deputies and Members of your party have religiously approved an Budget which was later not met,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u246	Tell me how you're going to vote the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u247	... while they approved and voted in favour of a set of measures which the Minister came here to promise and then failed to do so, we were on this side to denounce this fallacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u248	How will the PSD vote on the PCP proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u249	The CFP, with some pompousness and cynicism, was saying that it did not support government policy, but at the right time it was there to vote Budgets and fundamental measures to approve this policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u250	The right-wing policy crunch has always been PSD and CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u251	Madam Member, it is not worth arriving here at the end of four years and saying "we have nothing to do with the past".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u252	Okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u253	The policy of the last four years and its results are the responsibility of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u254	The good results and the bad results!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u255	Even if we're not in the government, we've always had solutions to the problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u256	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u257	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, the PSD approach to public school is more like 'thematic mix', i.e. focus a lot on not talking about the essentials. But we realize that, because it is the technique that the PSD uses to forget and to try to make us forget their responsibilities. It is that in educational matters, the past is not four years. In educational matters, the past is much more years, generations. Who took over 20,000 teachers from public school? PSD and CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u258	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u259	Who precarried the non-teachers of public school and fired him? PSD and CDS! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u260	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u261	Who destroyed the teaching... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for each speaker to be heard. Mr Porfirio Silva, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Who devalued the experimental teaching of sciences in public school? PSD! Who tried to destroy the National Reading Plan? PSD! Who made curricular goals completely unrealistic and harmful? PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u264	What are the results of the PISA (International Student Evaluation Programme)? PISA doesn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u265	You shout a lot, especially Mr Duarte Marques, to prevent others from speaking, but listen. It is difficult to hear, but these situations have happened and that is what you have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD did not just do bad things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u266	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u267	During the adjustment period, the PSD chose the public school to sacrifice and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u268	And now what's your excuse?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u269	...in addition to what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding, it cut upwards of EUR 1200 million in public school. Why? Because you are against public school and want to sacrifice it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Although the PSD does not talk about what is structural, the PISA continues to show three essential things that you have not spoken about. First of all, since 2000 the Portuguese public school has always been making progress. Secondly, there is one thing that the public school is not doing as it should be, which is to compensate for social inequalities. You don't talk about it, but you should talk about it, because that's what we should be worried about. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] And there is something else that the PISA also shows and which you should talk about. It's just that the years of Crato,
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u270	Crato? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u271	... which have now been evaluated, have shown — as I myself wrote in 2016 — what you did to education in Portugal. That is what you should answer, but you are only devoted to the foam of the days.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u272	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u273	The honourable Member is only trying to ruin what is being done, rather than looking forward and trying to find the national convergences necessary to appreciate what needs to be valued, which is public school. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u274	Mr President, my question is this: when does the internal electoral campaign end to start seriously dedicating themselves to the country? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u275	To request clarification from Mr Luís Leite Ramos, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leite Ramos, we all have a past. In the past of the Left Block, in the last legislature, there is the link of 7000 teachers, the change of the work standard, the end of the ECB ( school contract ), the end of the requalification of teachers with zero hours, the binding of thousands of employees, the hiring of many technicians that the school needed, the recovery of many works that were frozen — although not yet enough — the right to free school textbooks and the reduction of the number of students per class. In the past of the Left Block there's a lot we're proud of. In the past of the PSD are manifestations, at the door of the Assembly, of yellow shirt. This is what is in the past of the PSD: defending association contracts, defending incomes, transferring public money to private and unemployed schools, with unemployment benefits, working in public school only with the right to lunch. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] But the PSD, which has in its past electoral programmes that said that the public school should be private, cooperative, private, i.e. everything less public, now wants to defend the public school. Welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u277	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u278	The PSD, who is worried about the employees, ledo, did not approve the review of the portfolio of ratios that the Left Block brought here last week.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u280	The PSD, who is worried about the students, did not want free school textbooks, did not want to decrease the number of students per class. Therefore, the only conclusion that we can draw, when we compare past in the present and when we compare coherences, is that the defense of the public school of the PSD is instrumental, as instrumental as was the defense of teachers that the PSD tried to pretend it did in the previous legislation. So, after saying that the PSD has always defended the teachers, tomorrow you will have the opportunity to show it, because we will discuss a bill of the Left Block on the recovery of the time of service and the career of the teachers. The question I ask you is this: how will it be? How are you going to vote for him? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u281	You have the floor to answer, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u282	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Porfirio Silva and Joana Mortágua. Mr Porfirio Silva, I understand — I do not know if it is uncomfortable — the somewhat aggressive way he did his speech, raising the issue for an internal debate on elections in the PSD, and not discussing, as it should, what we are talking about. I wanted to say two very simple things: I defend public school — the PSD defends public school! — but you defend the state school. I repeat, you defend the state school, which is completely different! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We are not cynical like the Secretary of State, who defended public school but had children in private school. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We don't do that! Our concept of public school is the concept of school accessible to all, without restrictions and free of charge. You defend a state school. It is perhaps your most left-wing rib in relation to what public service should be. The honourable Member referred to a number of issues. I'll just give you a number, which I thought you were going to mention. Do you know what was the reduction in the early abandonment rate between 2011 and 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u283	And in 2018?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u284	You criticized the PSD government policy, but the early abandonment rate dropped from 23% to 13, 7%! Do you know what you achieved between 2015 and 2018? Pass that rate from 13, 7 % to 11, 8 %. Little boy, little boy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u285	Regret! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u286	Therefore, his criticism that there was, in the previous legislature, an attack on education is completely disassembled with indicators like this. More: Do you know how many teachers were linked between 2011 and 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u287	In crisis, attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u288	It was 4000, with the troika that you called, during the bankruptcy that you created! Do you know when that was? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Joana Mortágua, I was perplexed by her speech because she was waiting, as Mr Minister said yesterday, for her to join the PSD in the concrete, objective and very specific criticisms that we have made about the management of education policy. The honourable Member asked me, and I have little time to answer — what is the meaning of the PSD's vote. It's the usual one, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u289	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u290	It's the usual one, with the conditions we've always set. It's not like the Left Block. It is said that financial conditions need to be safeguarded so that this can be paid and at the same time guarantee other measures that you do not want to impose. [[Protests by BE MP Joana Mortagua and PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] We do not change our opinion on this matter and we will always maintain the same position in the defense of teachers, in the recovery of service time and in the enhancement of careers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u291	Look they don't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u292	Let us then move on to the political declaration of the Left Block. Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has levels of inequality and social exclusion still worrying, but there are citizens whose situation of vulnerability is so serious that it cannot fail to deserve our attention. The situation of homeless, until recently, was seen as a fatality. There is now, for the first time, the objective of responding to the people in this situation and, for that, we need to define priorities based on the national and international experience that has been developed and that has worked. People are in a situation of unhindered for complex reasons, which meet the very consequences of this condition. They are social, personal, family and even mental health problems. Therefore, the answers should be articulated, integrated and complete. Often, the situation of loss of employment and lack of a family and social support network coincides with cases of mental illness or drug use, which are obstacles to the recovery and social reintegration of these people. However, there is something transversal to all and to all, which is the lack of the most basic right of human rights: the right to housing. Portugal has had several strategies for integration of homeless people, with the commitment of many people, but there is still much to do. The strategy that had the implementation horizon 2009 - 2015 was interrupted in 2013 by the PSD / CDS government, which means that in the years in which Portugal was most affected by the crisis, when unemployment was at its peak and social benefits were cut off, the response to people in homeless situations was simply cut by the right government. Meanwhile, the previous government created the National Strategy for the Integration of People in a Hostless Situation, with the horizon of implementation 2017 - 2023. This strategy promised EUR 131 million to respond to the social exclusion situation of homeless people by 2020. It passed the year 2017, the year 2018, the year 2019, and neither the strategy came out of the paper nor the EUR 131 million reached the ground. The government now announces a reinforcement of EUR 7, EUR 5 million for the whole country, envisaged in the State budget for 2020, to meet the needs of homeless people. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the moment, only the municipality of Lisbon provides around EUR 4 million per year of its own budget for that same support. The value now announced before the compromise is insufficient to respond to the problem and to meet this imperative, even assumed by the President of the Republic himself, which is to offer an integrated social response to all people living on the street, who will naturally and necessarily pass through by giving them a roof. The president himself of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and autarch of the Socialist Party, Manuel Machado, denounced that the municipal chambers have not been supported. The Socialist Party itself seemed to have gone beyond this problem so far and there was a need for strong media pressure on the subject to show that social security and the Government are putting in place a long-term plan to combat social exclusion and support for homeless citizens. We can only regret that it was so late, despite the promises. But we must point out an important fact. Although insufficient, the City Council of Lisbon today has the most robust answer to this problem and this experience should serve as an example for what can be done by the Government, which is to refuse the assistanceist response and promote the rights of these people through the reintegration into a house, into a work and into society. A Left Block councillor was required to finally have the answer that this question deserves: by 2020 all people in situations of homeless capital will have an individual response so they can get out of the street.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u295	It is based on the strategy that has had better results at the international level and that refuses charity as a single aid. It is called Housing First, or Houses First, and until 2023, 400 such houses will be opened in the city of Lisbon. The housing response in this model is the basic principle of the program, but it includes a broader social integration component for each person to build their own life project. The house is thus the fundamental premise for building a process of empowerment, guaranteeing the remaining rights. The creation of an employment grant, the projection of general, mental and oral health programmes, but also permanent support, from employability to health, from training to qualification, rehabilitation and inclusion in society, is indicated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what has been done over the past few years, in a charitable logic that has borne little fruit, we are today, fortunately, at a turning point. We started a new cycle, with a new paradigm that puts the person in a homeless position in the center, gives him the necessary tools and promotes housing and ways of recovery of employability, among others, being the promotion of housing the core of this model. We hope that the measures taken in Lisbon can make their way and inspire the Government's compliance with the National Strategy. Combating social exclusion must be a clear and committed commitment by all and by all and these commitments must be met quickly, so a strong and concrete response is expected, including on the part of the Government, with the promises you have made. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u296	In order to obtain clarification, five were registered. Members, and Mrs Isabel Pires will respond together to the first three and then to the others. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, with all the esteem and consideration she deserves, I can't help but wonder at what we hear today. She seems to be living in a parallel reality, particularly with regard to the city of Lisbon. I am sorry, but also having direct knowledge of those who have been the difficulties in the city of Lisbon, either to implement the Housing First project, either to support the associations that have daily replaced themselves with the camera or the state, I do not, in fact, understand that it will now come to congratulate those who have been the advances in the city. I recall that, even last year, when the NAP asked the Executive of the PS, of which the Left Block was part, to increase the amount planned for the accommodation — it was not a sum of EUR 4 million, as it announced, but €700 000 — to respond to people in homeless situations, not only this proposal of the NAP was not accepted, as it did not deserve from the Executive any kind of response. More, Mrs. Member: I do not need to remember a recent past of this House, in which the Left Block did not accompany the NAP's concern to remove bureaucratic-administrative barriers, which prevent people from accessing the citizen's card. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because we are very pleased to see that they accompany what is, finally, a victory of the NAP and a concern of civil society, with the Housing First project. in this respect, we congratulate the Government on having accepted the NAP's request to extend to the whole country the response of the Housing First project, so that, in fact, if they give guarantees and effect what must be a first right, the right to housing — which allows people to be removed from the street, give them a roof and ensure that from there we rehabilitate the individual. Madam Member, we want to know whether this is what we count on the Left Block to accompany us in this concern. It is that there are multiple factors that effectively compete for people to continue on the street, from real estate to health, particularly mental health — the NAP has asked the Government to strengthen mental health programmes by EUR 10 million, because it is important that they be given realisation, in addition to the need to be more involved in prevention — and also employability.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u298	Employability? The problem is that homeless people aren't usable? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u299	We do not actually live in a pink world, nor is the country Lisbon. Therefore, Lisbon is pointed out as a mirage to be achieved, when only today the plan for the reintegration of homeless people was taken to the City Hall is not a good example. We compare what is less bad with the country's bad reality is no solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u300	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u301	I conclude now, Mr President. There must indeed be a commitment by all of us to combat this scourge, but we do not seal the sun with the sieve, Mrs. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u302	Mr Firmino Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u303	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Isabel Pires, the issue that brought to plenary did not happen in the last four years. in an analysis of social cohesion in the European Union, from 2001 to 2010, the Commission first presented to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions the draft joint report on social inclusion, a political document on poverty and social exclusion in the European Union. There they go, at least 10 years. We can say that, in line with this concern and with cooperation between the State and private institutions of social solidarity — or legally equal institutions — it is of central and vital importance, at the level of the development of services, responses and social equipment for the social protection of citizens, the PROCOOP, the Celebration Programme or Enlargement of Cooperation Agreements for the Development of Social Responses, approved by Portaria No 100 / 2017. The question of homeless people is not well taken up is the intense activity of the President of the Republic around this issue, as is that of each one of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u304	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u305	It is necessary to move from words to acts, as has been said, recalling that the next State budget is being prepared. when seeking help in the area of housing, we cannot turn away the problem of unhindered employment and health issues, involving social security, the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training and other entities, both private and governmental, with real commitments. Identifyed the problems and the national issue of homeless people, the fact is that in November 2019 the final phase of applications to PROCOOP for the framework of an innovative response—which is why it exists—such as Housing First, or Homes First, which, in its origin, in Finland, shows that it is possible to obtain a significant reduction of costs for each beneficiary of assistance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u306	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u307	I shall conclude, Mr President. But with regard to this national problem, which everyone is concerned, there is not even a line of concrete answers, unless it is still under consideration, an answer that has already been obtained for the candidatures of PROCOOP carried out in 2017. Mr President, in conclusion, I should like to say to Mrs Isabel Pires that this is a style of evaluation and response to governance problems that we are already used to.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u308	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u309	Question: by this way, is this the real help to remove homeless people from the street? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u310	You have the floor to reply to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u311	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Mr Firmino Marques for her considerations and questions on one subject which, for the Left Block, is of the utmost importance — and is not now, in the last two years or in the last four years, but has always been. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it took a very great job to understand what the reality was and what the existing solutions were, because until two years ago the current system was purely charitable, which did not have a joint response to people in homeless situations. No one lives in a pink world, especially in the city of Lisbon, until because the Left Block has now not reached the housing crisis, it has not now reached the social problems that were created by the housing crisis or the crisis that we suffered during the time of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u313	So since that time we have worked to solve these problems. What we do not do is monitor stereotypings on homeless people, which is what the NAP project does on the issue you mentioned here, and well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u314	The Housing First program is part of an absolutely essential premise—which is now laid down in the law—which has to do with housing, with the house. Without starting from the person's premise to have a roof to live in, we can't move on to the rest. That is why, at the moment, homeless people already have, by law, the right to a citizen's card, like anyone else, and that's how it makes sense. You can give us another address. The Housing Basics Act, in Article 12. the, guarantees the right to a postal address and therefore the answer that has to be given is the house, it is the housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u315	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u316	And it is in this sense that our intervention is going. In response to Mr Firmino Marques, the objective of this political statement is that one can indeed look at a programme that works and has internationally positive results and that it can be transformed and operationalized into the State budget. We know what the proposal was about the strengthening that is being made in the State budget, but what we say is that we need to go beyond that reinforcement, because the authorities need this support, which has not been given so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u317	Mrs. Isabel Pires, there are two more Mrs. Members registered to request clarification. First of all, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Bloc on the Left and Mrs Isabel Pires for her speech, which is very important and very expensive to the Socialist Party. I would like to point out that the Socialist Party, when it arrived at the Government in 2015, found that the Strategy had been interrupted in 2013, when it was most necessary to strengthen social support because we were at a time of crisis. Now, the Strategy has been interrupted by the PSD/CDS government and we are still about to understand why. I would also like to point out that it was the social institutions and some municipalities, particularly the one in Lisbon, that during the period when there was no Strategy, they continued to work and respond to homeless people on the ground. I would also like to point out that the Strategy which was put back on the ground — which began in 2017 and ended in 2023 — was adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, which gives a different political force to the Strategy. As for the financing of the Strategy, the 131 million you spoke of do not correspond to the money to deliver to the municipalities. If the financing of the Strategy is well seen, we are talking about money that public institutions, such as the SICAD, IEFP, Social Security, allocate to the Strategy. That's what makes the total of 131 million. There is no provision for any part of this money to be delivered to the municipalities. The municipality of Lisbon now integrates 4 million — and well — which are its contribution to the Strategy. I would also like to welcome this initiative of the municipality of Lisbon, through which a socialist chamber, with the Mercy of Lisbon, is setting an example for the rest of the country, particularly through the Housing First, of which you spoke, and well. In fact, we need a roof, because without a roof, without a house, there is no solution for homeless people. Finally, I would like to ask you, Madam Member, if you think this initiative of the Lisbon Chamber should be an example...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u319	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u320	I am just going to ask the question, Mr President. I ask you whether your opinion is that this example which the Lisbon Chamber gave yesterday should be extended throughout the country and that the coordination of strategies should be of the municipalities and social networks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u321	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group, and then Mrs Isabel Pires will answer. Please, Mrs. Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u322	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Isabel Pires on the subject she referred to in her political statement. I must say from now on that, for the CFP, the problem of homeless people is a violation of fundamental human rights, and it is of course necessary that effective measures be taken, which respond to this problem immediately, but also fundamental measures that fight for these realities to be repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u324	It is essential to give priority to actions that promote the social inclusion of homeless people in order to ensure that no one sleeps on the street and that their possible passage through temporary accommodation is limited to the time strictly necessary so that they can be given a decent accommodation and their own housing, which is also a fundamental right and a constitutional right. This problem has to be integrated in several areas, with cross-cutting policies, in guaranteeing employment with rights for these people, in ensuring greater social protection, in guaranteeing and in access to a set of social rights, particularly in the area of health — oral health, visual health and mental health, which is a fairly felt need in this area. This, of course, requires an integrated response and cross-cutting measures. Of course, in this reality, housing issues are of absolutely central importance. And, Mrs Deputy, in the council you referred to as an example, the housing strategy makes no reference to people in homeless situations. Therefore, the worst thing could happen was that we would contribute, also in this debate, to an idea that it would be through a multiplicity of local strategies throughout the country that would solve the problem of homeless people in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u326	There are indeed different realities in our country among people in homeless situations, but this must also be a responsibility of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u327	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u328	There is a National Strategy for this subject, but we cannot move from strategy to strategy without solving fundamental problems and without ensuring the existence of structural measures that ensure that these situations never happen again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u329	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u330	I would like to know the opinion of BE on the same subject, asking him whether he does not think that the Strategy should also be accompanied by structural measures, so that these situations do not repeat themselves. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u331	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u332	Mr President, I thank Mrs Catarina Marcelino and Mrs Diana Ferreira for the questions put. Mrs. Catarina Marcelino, what I said is quite important, because the fact that in 2013 the Strategy had been interrupted, at a time when the country probably needed the most that these matters could have been realized, is a sign of the position of the PSD and the CDS on this issue. The paradigm was wrong, because it was based on charity and assistanceism, contrary to the paradigm that we are now talking about, which relies on giving competence to people who are in a homeless situation so that they can redeploy their life projects through the basic question, which is housing. Therefore, it is also true that it is a positive sign that, in 2016, has resumed the Strategy, of course, as I said in my intervention, that during this time several people have continued to work on this matter. Moreover, Parliament itself, particularly in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, has had a number of positions and discussions on this subject and how the Strategy has been or has not been implemented and will or will not be applied in the future. On the question of financing and coordinating strategies, which also concerns the question that Mrs Diana Ferreira has asked, there is something that seems absolutely essential to us. It is true that models such as Houses First, but also others very similar to this, work well in coordinating strategies at municipal level, because it is easier to have this proximity with people in homeless situations. But it is a fundamental issue for us: the State cannot be irresponsible about this. If there is a positioning and attitude to say that this is a national problem and that the response must be a national design, then the financing of these strategies must also be from a national point of view. Clearly, municipalities do what they can, articulate strategies that have the ability to articulate, but there is no doubt a key role in financing the state for these programs. So this is the position that we will continue to mark, because we believe that, in fact, this programme, as it is being implemented, has very great social advantages for people who are in a homeless situation, specifically. The only way to ensure that the whole country is evenly reached is, in fact, that there is such help on the part of the central State to enforce this national plan. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u333	under Article 71 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic have the floor of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am not here to talk about the budget. There is life beyond Budget. In fact, the best of the budgets would serve Portugal very little today, because if we did not solve a problem that has decades, that everything blocks and everything stains, there can be no real development in Portugal. And that's what I'm talking about here today, which is corruption. The Government has recently announced the establishment of a working group to prepare a national anti-corruption strategy. It comes late, but there the people say, «more late than ever». Only if this strategy is based on the vague measures in the Government Programme, we can expect more than that: pious intentions, measures that will be well placed in newspaper titles and no practical results. This is the X-ray of the state to which things have arrived: in the first half of this year, according to news, 94 % — I repeat, 94 % — of the complaints of corruption have been filed, mainly due to lack of human and technical means for obtaining evidence; most anti-corruption measures adopted in the Justice Pact have never been implemented; more than a decade ago the law provides for the creation of technical advice offices and, to date, neither see them; Portugal is the country that has implemented GRECO's recommendations (the Anti-Corruption Group ), the anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe ; corruption costs Portugal, according to a report quoted here from the Association Transparency and Integrity, about 18 billion euros a year, over 8 % of GDP and almost twice the budget of health. In addition, Portugal is also the country whose Government now wants a national strategy against corruption but which at the beginning of the year wanted to remove the word « corruption » from the OECD report, according to former Minister Álvaro Santos Pereira. [[PS protests.]] Portugal is one of the countries that has most media cases of corruption. This is not by chance but because there is too much power concentrated in the state, and this power, in turn, is concentrated in a small number of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u335	That's private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u336	It is in the liberal countries that there is a better position in the Perception of Corruption Index ( IPC ), prepared by the International Transparency. Reduce the size of the State, simplify the rules and reduce the power of bureaucrats, reduce the opportunities for corruption. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] That is why liberalism works in the fight against corrupt people: while defending maximum individual freedom, it requires maximum responsibility and controls accordingly. Liberalism is thus the greatest enemy of corruption. in this sense, the Liberal Initiative will propose, in its own right, measures that facilitate the identification, investigation and prosecution of these matters, such as, for example, the amendment to the party financing law, the strengthening of the mechanisms of transparency of State procurement or the expansion of recruitments by public tender. [[PS protests.]] And, however difficult it may be, we will not avoid discussion of any measure that can help to deduce this scourge, be it the creation of specialized courts, illicit enrichment, sentence agreements or award-winning collaboration. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] None of these discussions will be out of the table. And if any of the solutions require that the Constitution be changed, we will also be here to defend this review. Between insisting not to move in the Constitution and the firm fight against corruption, the Liberal Initiative knows which side it is on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u337	Two privates!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u338	We are aware that adequate legislation is not enough. We need a consistent application, we need well-qualified and well-trained security and research forces and we need continuous scrutiny from a free and independent press. [[PS Members' laughs.]] So to separate the wheat from the juicy between those who want and those who only pretend to want to fight corruption, and imbued with a certain Christmas spirit, we have come here to leave three challenges to everyone, all without exception. First, the Liberal Initiative does not believe that it should be a working group in the Socialist Party's Government to coordinate efforts to combat corruption. Being naive to the point of believing that it will be PS, which has dominated the Portuguese political system for decades, which will solve this problem is like being an adult and still believing in Santa Claus. [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] But if the Government insists on maintaining this model, the first challenge we leave here is that it invites a personality of recognized merit to lead this group. And since we have proposed the name Joana Marques Vidal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u339	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u340	... the former Attorney-General of the Republic has not been remanded in office for a short time for still unclear reasons. The proposal is made and the answer is awaited. The second challenge is that the example has to come from us in this House. It is regrettable that the Government has not yet reacted to the scandal reported on days ago on the prescription of fines of hundreds of thousands of euros to most parties present here due to last year's amendments to the Party's financing law, against which, moreover, the Liberal Initiative has always been beaten and will continue to beat. This is a case of moral corruption and the loss of credibility of this House and the regime. However, there are fines concerning other years that have not yet been prescribed. Here, then, is the second challenge: in defence of the Portuguese and the good use of the money of their taxes, we urge all parties not to use dilatory manoeuvres and not to take advantage of the lack of means of the supervisory entity, which, in fact, this Budget which appeared yesterday does not strengthen, and to end the prescriptions of fines from political parties. That would be an excellent example that we would give to the country and a true Christmas present to the Portuguese. Finally, the third challenge: as we have already said, we do not trust the Government to deal with these matters in its closed working group. The front of the fight against corruption must be this Parliament. We will therefore propose the establishment of a possible anti-corruption committee, with a clear mandate to reach concrete recommendations within a specified time limit. It takes 10 Members to request this committee. And from here further challenge 9, 99 or 229 to join us in the request to set up this committee. These are the three Christmas challenges of the Liberal Initiative against Corruption. Here we will be in front of the fight responsible for corruption and in front of the irreverent opposition to those who want nothing to change. Join us to give these three Christmas gifts to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u341	Two Mrs were registered. Members for clarification requests, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the Socialist Party and Mr João Piinho de Almeida of the CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u342	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u343	You then have the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, thank you very much for bringing us this issue, a subject on which we all agree: the undeniable social damage of corruption. But there is another point that also seems undeniable, that we have the most punitive legal-criminal systems in the world in terms of corruption and the main changes, which I will list immediately, have happened to the governments of the Socialist Party. Therefore, if there is a party that can take pride in its inheritance in the legal-criminal repression of corruption is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] I will list: in 2001, when António Costa was Minister of Justice, the undue receipt of advantage was criminalized, which is now provided for in Article 372. that of the Criminal Code and which meant the most relevant innovation in the legal-criminal repression of corruption,... [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u345	They don't want to hear the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u346	...because it means that the evidence of the act sold by the public agent has become indispensable. It was in 2002 that Law No 5 / 2002 was passed, which created an extraordinarily efficient criminal prosecution regime, oriented towards the repression of corruption. I am going to give examples: - the extended confiscation has been created, the derogation from the bank and tax secrecy has been admitted, voice recordings and unauthorized image recordings have been admitted. [[CH protests.]] It was in 2001 that the crimes of corruption provided for in Articles 372 have changed. the following of the Penal Code, by deleting the word « counterparty » to show that proof of the marking or the so-called « take-off pact there» was unnecessary in the context of corruption. As far as legal-criminal repression of corruption is concerned, the contributions which governments of the Socialist Party have made are guided by the fact that they have gone as far as possible in the context of the Constitution we have. There's a series of others...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u347	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u348	I'm just going to ask you a question, Mr President. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has brought us a number of measures which are not new and which have largely been considered unconstitutional. I am referring in particular to the crime of illicit enrichment. Question: Is that what you're defending? Disagreements with the Constitution? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u349	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the issue that it brings is very relevant and the CDS also believes that it is essential that we be able to respond to Portuguese in a matter such as corruption. To list a list of measures that have already been taken is nothing more than to demonstrate the inefficiencies of such measures in relation to what is the existing reality, because the Portuguese do not claim, as regards corruption, that there are more measures. With regard to corruption, the Portuguese claim that there are more consequences. Therefore, what any political officer should be concerned about is the effectiveness of existing legislation. It is no good to have one of the best laws in the world if we then have, from the point of view of the efficiency of the application of these laws, an absolutely insufficient rate of convictions. So I wanted to ask you three things. First of all: it is or not true that the first enemy of the fight against corruption is too great a state... [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá.]] ... and, therefore, the multiplication of State interventions, the need for recourse to the State for any activity that anyone wants to develop, is or is not itself a factor in exposing the hypothesis of corruption? So, state reform and the decrease in the presence of the State, the decrease in acts, the decrease in rates to be paid, the reduction in procedures, is or is not a fundamental way to this fight against corruption? Secondly, with regard to the committee he proposes, he does not understand that sometimes these committees have the great problem of opinion that is more an attempt to resolve than indeed a clear consequence for solving the problem. So I ask you what is the object you want for this committee, for all of us to consider, for sure that in order to form it, we must ensure that something different and better happens in the fight against corruption. Finally, if...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u351	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u352	It is at last, Mr President. Mr President, whether or not it is necessary to move in the relationship between the corrupter and the corrupter, particularly in court proceedings, so that a relationship can be broken which, at the outset, is a strong enough relationship, so that the truth can be learned and proved in court.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u353	To answer that, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u354	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Santos, I thank you for your questions. Madam Member, I think you wrote your question before you heard my speech, because nothing you asked has to do with what I said. [[PS protests.]] It says that we have a more punitive legal system, that there are already two or three laws, but I did not talk about the existence of more or less laws, said that 94% of corruption processes are archived, with the current legal framework—is the first half of this year. [[PS Member Protests Cláudia Santos.]] I spoke about the problem of the application of laws and the means and resources allocated to the security and research forces that are not allowing the processes to arrive quickly, which is condemnation. [[PS protests.]] Finally, when you try to put unconstitutional positions or unconstitutional measures into my mouth, you didn't hear what I said either. What I said clearly was that we have not closed the door to any of the difficult issues; if any of them are considered the best solution to end this scourge and if this implies a constitutional review, if the choice is between maintaining this state of things and reviewing the Constitution, I have no doubt that it is preferable to review the Constitution, I repeat, if that is the best way to end this state of things with regard to corruption. [[PS protests.]] Mr. João Almeida, thank you very much for your questions too. We agree with the opportunity that always generates corruption and corruption when there is more power, from then on in the state. In fact, from now on in the state, but it would not be there because any consideration of excessive power creates opportunities for corruption. And being Portugal the country it is, this is particularly true in the powers of the state. That's where we agree 100 percent. Ask me what the object of the committee would be. I may have sinned here because of Parliamentary inexperience, but I thought that this had to be brought to Parliament and the most worthy figure that this Parliament can have, the greatest importance it can be given, is a committee set up specifically for this purpose. And as a framework, the idea was that this committee should look at the many diagnoses that have been made—and well— use until the work that the government has already begun, making an annual report on corruption, and made very clearly a set of concrete recommendations on which are the best ways to avoid what are the problems that lead to non-condemnation, to the interruption of investigations, not reaching the stage of prosecution and sentence in good time. Whatever these recommendations, this committee would have the power to give them, let us say, the greatest deliberative force in Parliament. The relationship between corrupt and corrupt, as is obvious, is a link that has to be broken for some of these convictions to occur. Then, again, I am not going to anticipate the discussion. There are several ways of trying to avoid this relationship, but I am not going to anticipate it, until some of them coincide with what the committee should deal with. I take this opportunity to call again on nine brave Members to join in this request for this committee to be set up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u355	For a political declaration under the same Article 71 (2). the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, has the floor Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was not a political declaration that he wanted to make, but he will necessarily have to do. We live in times when freedom of expression is effectively called into question. And it is put at stake at all times and when institutions feel that they have to meet the challenges that they are facing. Whether with forbidden words, whether with figures of any kind of regiment that seek to silence parties, this is truly a form and a scenario that has only one name: it is a scandal. How scandalous it is to hear that the main and best measures against corruption came from the Socialist Party. I have here and I will read: June 2019 — I repeat, 2019, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — Portugal is the least in line with the recommendations on anti-corruption measures. Let me see what the government was in 2019 : it was the Government of the Socialist Party. It's a scandal we're here pretending to be talking to and for citizens. It is a European report! It is the same report which, a few days later, led the President of the Republic to say that we have to be careful because we are far behind on those countries which comply with anti-corruption measures. Let me see who the president was: Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. And the government was from the Socialist Party. It is said here that the Socialist Party is in the fight against corruption! Is that what you're talking about? Who's out there laughing, smiling, laughing again, turning off the TV, calling again and thinking, is this my country? Am I looking good? Is there not a former Prime Minister—let me see what a party it is! — the Socialist Party being judged for corruption? And they come here and say, with the greatest disembarkation, that they are in the leadership of the fight against corruption. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This can only have one word, indeed, which is to be shameful in terms of speech. But also in the same struggle, we have a document presented to this House, with some delay and some graffiti. It's normal! The grates were later corrected by the Minister and, clearly, the country is presented as the one who will record the great growth above the European average. Of course, later corrections are made and we also realize that there is such a higher European tax burden, or the higher tax burden compared to GDP, by 35 %. It is strange that in a time and era when there is so much economic growth, we also have the highest tax burden in terms of the percentage of GDP. It's strange, ladies. Members, who, at a time when there is so much growth, are behind us in paying the suppliers, not by the municipal chambers, not by the autonomous regions, but by the central state which says we have certain accounts and which thus leaves companies and families without what they were entitled to do business with the State. It is strange to live at a time when there is a growth so above average, so large and so close to countries that a few years ago were in the former Soviet Union, and we have no money for the risk allowance for the police or for the accommodation allowance for the teachers or to give a minimum of dignity to nurses and health professionals. It's weird! It is strange to be with the greatest growth ever, but the upgrade of the IRS steps is made — imagine! — below inflation, which means that we are all losing purchasing power. Everyone, since the gentlemen here are those who are there and those who are behind me, we are all losing purchasing power, and so many applauding that loss of purchasing power. It's like saying: beat me that I like; keep beating me that I like and appreciate. But there is also a certain curiosity to hear the excuses that the left gives: "Oh, and so, in the time of the Passos was worse and 20 years ago it was even worse and in the time of Vasco Gonçalves, perhaps, it was still worse. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's always the same excuse. They have been in the government for years and yet the excuse is always one: Pedro Passos Coelho, the PSD, the CDS and all who were not but could be. [[PS protests.]] It is always the same excuse, with the same name: Pedro Passos Rabbit. [[PS protests.]] I know that the name Pedro Passos Rabbit causes you some indignation. [[PS protests.]] But it doesn't stop being weird, either...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u357	The honourable Member continues to use the floor. I'm asking there's peace in the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not surprising that a country with such growth continues with so many homeless people on the street—they still have increased in Madeira — and have the doors open for illegal immigration, hotels and lodgings, but not for the homeless Portuguese and those who need them so much. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We don't just watch TV and see that half of the population is paying the IRS half, but we smile and say it's always gonna be like this. There's always half the country paying the other half of the country what it has to do. It is no longer the country of growth, it is the country of taking each other to give to others, of stealing from each other to give to the same as ever, and that is certainly not a country of growth. This is not a Christmas challenge, as my predecessor said on this board, it is a Christmas joke, since today we have agreed and heard Mr. Prime Minister say that it is not left-wing to promote deficits or increase debt. For moments, I turned off the television again, closed the newspapers again, and reminded me if this Prime Minister was not the Minister of Justice of José Socrates who brought us the troika and if this is not the party that brought the troika to Portugal three times. We look at this and we say: what country is this where I am, in which apparently those who had the responsibility to rule me are the first to make jokes in such an important court as this? Just one last news to finish, Mr President: we can do the jokes we want, we can hit palms and we can continue, but the Portuguese, out there, are not beating palms, are concerned about the loss of purchasing power, with insecurity, with illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u359	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u360	That's what your time will be on trial. This isn't a Christmas challenge. We don't have any Christmas challenges. I just want to tell you that they made the biggest Christmas joke this Parliament could have had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u361	Mr President, the Bureau records four entries of Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u362	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u363	Therefore, in the first group of requests for clarification are the Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, and Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS. You have Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u364	Mr President, I would just like to note that, since the subject is transversal to the speech of the Liberal Initiative Member, and that, unfortunately, I did not register in due course to ask him, I will report to both sides. I bring here a concern that has to do with the moment we live. We will begin to discuss next January the State budget and in the area of combating corruption there are some concerns, from the very point of view of strengthening the amount of money allocated to the Constitutional Court, which we have found to be clearly insufficient to constitute the Transparency Entity which is in the law but which does not yet exist. Another concern concerns the justice pact and the need for greater investment, especially in terms of restructuring and the need for the installation of support offices in the districts. The strengthening of judges, prosecutors and civil servants together with the creation of multi-disciplinary teams of the DPRK ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ) and the DIAP ( Department of Research and Criminal Action ) are also concerns. Corruption, as we know, has a cost to the country. The European Green Group itself has already said that Portugal loses around EUR 18 million per year with corruption. Therefore, it must be a desire of all of us to fight corruption. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular those who have made the speeches, if they are willing to follow us together so that we can implement all these measures together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u365	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, thank you for your political statement, because it is an opportunity to ask some important questions about how Parliament works, how it should work and how it should deal with the debates: without exaggeration, without simplification, without lack of rigour and with the topics put as they should be. The honourable Member speaks of prohibited words. I tell you that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Statute of the Members, in accordance with the code of conduct of this House of the Republic and of the Members, it is an obligation for all to respect the dignity of the Assembly and of the Members. I believe that whenever someone does not do so, it must indeed be the object of a warning to seek to respect what is the parliamentary institution, the House, Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, since we are going to the rigour, Mr President, I asked you: where you were yesterday at the meeting of the Working Group on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Republic and where you were today at the meeting of 1. the Commission, which discussed the amendments to the Rules of Procedure which increased the intervention capacity of the sole representatives of parties? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's a job that, we've given, doesn't satisfy everyone. There were more advanced proposals, there were parties that did not have their proposals reflected, but what is true is that we have an unparalleled Parliament in Europe in what are the rights granted to small parliamentary groups and to the sole representatives of parties. In all topics placed on the table there was either an increase in intervention capacity or the introduction of intervention capacity where it previously did not exist. The only exception, which is the non-participation in the Conference of Leaders, is neither at any point in Europe, but it is guaranteed through the right to prior hearing in all the debates in which the agenda is affixed. So I also asked him why he missed the call to the right place to avenge the point of view of arrive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have two more questions, sir. As it brings to the collation the important issue that has already been mentioned in the previous point about corruption, I ask you why it is that it does not study in depth the topic of the GRECO report that it placed on the table, recognizing that this report is referred to in the previous year, 2018, and that it does not take into account the legislative package approved in this Chamber that responds to all the issues that were pending in that report through the transparency package activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u367	Well remembered! Serious need!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u368	We will wait for the 2019 report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But one thing would be done: to study, Mr, to study carefully and to verify developments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u369	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u370	Finally, one last question, Mr President. The honourable Member often asks important questions about the breakdown of salaries of teachers, police, nurses, doctors, about the austerity that penalises people. A little while ago I mentioned Pedro Passos Coelho's government and said that this is pointed...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u371	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u372	I will finish, Mr. President. He said that this is pointed out as the culprit of everything. But you were asking, Mr President, when did this happen, when those cuts took place, where was Mr Militia? With whom did the honourable Member affirm his political programme? Who was the honourable Member then criticizing? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u373	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u374	Do you want to continue beating hands or can I answer? [[PS protests.]] If you want to continue, you can... it's a habit of such courtesy of the House... [[At the moment, CH André Ventura's deputy applauded.]] They can continue to beat palms that looks very good on you. The Portuguese are adoring. [[PS protests.]] Can I answer it or not? [[He's nervous!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u375	Nervous? I'm not nervous at all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! If there's anything I'm not nervous about! Let's go, starting with the first question, of Mrs Inês Real. In fact, strengthening means is crucial... [[Protests of PS Members.]] You want to talk for me, too? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Actually...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u376	He talks so much about freedom of expression and then...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u377	Are you talking about freedom of expression? Oh, my God! It's better or... Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I begin with the strengthening of means, which is indeed fundamental, but not only at the judicial level, is also at the level of the Judicial Police, the Public Ministry, which has so often complained, is at the level of judicial officials, that so much reason for complaints have been made to other sectors but not to them. But you know what you need, too? There is no legislative ziguezag, it is not to come to speak of a kind of negotiated or awarded delation and, as you hear criticisms of the Socialist Party's own bench, it is now said that, after all, it is not well awarded or negotiated delation. We don't know what it is anymore, but it's not good for criminal policy, it's negative, it's very negative. But you want an idea? Look, vital incompatibilities. Does it make sense that anyone who does business on behalf of the State with companies can go to work for these companies? Look at the people out there who see this and say: «what a huge scandal, someone has traded for the state and now is working there». Courage, that's what we need! Mr Delgado Alves, let me just say this: I accept your good advice and your kind advice on courtesy, but in all honesty and direction, I must tell you that if these rules were to apply to you, you would probably not be in this House anymore. You can hit palms now too! I don't know if you saw television in the last few days, but we heard a number of prominent socialists using the same expressions as me, the same style as me and the same way. But the honourable Member must have turned off the TV and said: « Oh, Jesus, what they are doing the poll they have to do! » It is called democracy, Mr. Deputy! You know the courtesy is not just for some, it's for everyone. And the newspapers and televisions were the first to do this poll. Just go see what happened in recent years of the PSD government / CDS! [[PS protests.]] Mr President, on the cuts in wages, I never hid where I was fighting, nor what is the political past I have, nor the party I belong to. None of that costs me. Do you know what it costs me? I find it difficult for a party that has called austerity now to look at it as if it were the fault of these colleagues on this side. That costs me, because that has a name: political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u378	What about missing meetings? Oh, my God! Don't you answer? Oh, my God! Mr President, it is very simple: I understand that you have been unattended and have not followed the news—it is very busy and I understand that—but if you had seen yesterday, you would verify that, as soon as we knew that it was shameful what was going to be done in the matter of ‘not belonging to the Conference of Leaders’... [[PS protests.]] Because if we start by saying this: we will start from a minimum budget, which is what was given to the NAP in the last legislature. [[PS protests.]] Can I talk? Thank you! Let's start from that principle. Well, what is the principle that we left? The parties do not belong to the Conference of Leaders. So, we said later...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u379	I ask you to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u380	I will finish, Mr. President. We said soon that we wouldn't be present in protest, in protest! [[PS laughter.]] But you're very careless and probably haven't seen that protest. It's called protest! Objection!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u381	Mr President, the time has already gone by far, but you will have more opportunity to speak, since two more are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Ventura, it is not easy to address the question, given the place where we are in the plenary,... [[PS protests.]] ...but I'd like to ask you to clarify... Well, if you all want to keep talking, I think it will be harder to understand ourselves; however, I understand that this moment requires some serenity, because it has been shaken and should not be.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u384	I would like to begin by saying the following: for the CDS and for me all the Members who are within this plenary were elected by the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u385	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u386	...and the respect we show for all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for each and every one of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the respect we show for these Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u387	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u388	And I say this to Mr. André Ventura as I say to Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, as I say to either of you. Ladies and gentlemen sitting here. All Portuguese who have chosen us deserve equal respect and we show respect for these Portuguese with the respect we show for each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u389	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u390	So there can be no Members here to whom everything is allowed and other Members to whom nothing is allowed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u391	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u392	The rules here must be the same for all — in fact, I had the opportunity to tell Mr President, soon after taking possession. However, this does not mean that everything is allowed to us all and that we have free letter to insult whoever is in here; quite the contrary. The gentlemen. Members will have to do the justice that I, within this Chamber, have never insulted anyone, even when I sometimes heard that I was part of a government that was stealing, stealing people's pensions. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u393	That government of Pedro Passos Coelho that I, with great pride, was part of! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and IL.]] I don't think it's legitimate to have said it. There you are. I apply the same rules to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, be on the right, be on the left, be on the center, I agree with them or disagree with them. I would like to ask Mr Ventura a question, because I say this frankly, I am a little tired of this debate on parliamentary incidents. I have often heard him say « the Portuguese out there... ». Mr President, will the Portuguese out there not be a little tired of these permanent incidents either?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u394	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u395	Of course, Mr. President. I understand that you mean what you understand, but we were not elected just to protest; we were elected to solve people's problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u396	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u397	So, Mr President, I realized the issues you raised, I just didn't understand the solution to those issues, and that's what I, after all, liked to know. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u398	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, although it represents almost all of the opposite of what we stand for in politics, we believe that, having been democratically elected, it must have at least the same rights as the PAN had in the previous legislature. We have therefore voted in this way and so you can even use this time that you will have in the future and that you have been recognized to clarify some of the things I consider - and allow me to use your words - a 'disgrace' in our democracy. For example, we ended up here with the vital pension scheme, which was indeed an embarrassment to the democratic regime. I would like to ask you if you do not consider it a shame that your national spokesperson, one of the beneficiaries of this vital pension scheme, Sousa Lara, who has stopped receiving this legal amendment, has said that he would continue to receive it. Don't you think this is a shame, sir? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] On the candidate for the European elections, who is alleged to have set up a scheme to raise money for the State and who has been compulsively retired for more than 80 days of consecutive absences at work, I would also like to ask him if he does not really consider it a shame that he has here the political shelter of the Arrival, his political party. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, I would like to ask you if you do not consider, using your terms, a shame, and I say this with all serenity, because only you, I believe, will understand - CL - by using this term - when the PJ, the Judicial Police, knocked on your door to, in the Tutto-Frutti case, ask you whether or not you were involved in hiring a phantom adviser to allegedly divert public money into the party blue bag, carrying out what is worse in national party practices. I ask you, Mr President, whether, in the time you have now taken, and good! — you have time to respond to these shames that tarnish your curriculum. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u400	You have the floor to answer, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u401	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, saying that it is indeed important for everyone to realize that the legitimacy of one of them is equal to the legitimacy of others and that the parties who are called to this House are by decision and by popular vote and deserve the same rights when they are equal. That is why we propose a balanced comparison with Parliament's arithmetic in relation to rights, of course. What we can't want to have is courtesy for each other and not courtesy for others. What we cannot mean is that there is a government that steals pensions and steals the elderly and when someone arrives and uses the expression «is a shame», alas, my God, you cannot use this expression! What we can't say is that some people have blood or whatever it is in their hands, but when they get to others, they say that there have to be rules of courtesy. That can't be it, Mrs. Deputy! Therefore, there must be rules that are in fact the same for all and that are fulfilled, because that is the only way that citizens understand what is going on. Mrs. Member, I fully agree with you: incidents do not help anyone, but, as you should imagine, it has not been enough to raise them... [[PS laughter.]] ...have been the other parties creating incidents with the Arrival. This is the truth! This is the truth! On solutions it is very simple to see and, in relation to one of them, we have just mentioned: it has to do with the incompatibilities. It was something this house should have done a long time ago, and it didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u402	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u403	We've already proposed. Reform and reformulation of enrichment...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u404	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u405	No, you're not, sir! Don't! It's the way you want it! It's not in the law! It is enough to see the shameful cases that exist in Portugal and that, if they were in the law, they did not exist. You want me to give you one, two, three examples? How many do you want? I can give you the examples you want! Moreover, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we have proposed the reformulation of the wrongful enrichment that could meet those that had been the requirements of the Constitutional Court, but so far absolutely nothing. What did we see? We have seen a kind of delation that is neither rewarded nor compensatory; it is a sort of joke that we do not know well what it is and what we will see in due course. This is to point out solutions; solutions that people want to see effectively consecrated. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I am most pleased to reply to the questions you have raised about which parties I was fighting and what happened. With regard to vital subsidies, do you know why I have more morale than you do? Because I went to everyone's door to tell them to deliver the vital subsidies,... [[BE's laughs.]] ...including militants, supporters, all. I asked everyone to hand over the grant. And you know what, sir? When I walked... [[BE's protests.]] Can I go on?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u406	I'm asking you to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u407	Thank you, Mr. President. When I went to Madeira to the door of institutions, to the house of people — look at the door of the PCP — in the social communication to say to join us in the fight against vital subsidies, including those that were still on pay, where was the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u408	Where was Sousa Lara? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u409	When it's fun...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u410	Where was Sousa Lara?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u411	May I? When we went to Évora's prison saying that it was a shame a politician condemned to be receiving State subsidies, where were you? They were sitting here comfortably! That's a shame! [[BE's protests.]] It's forgetting what's going on in the country! That's a shame! But, Mr President, I could also tell you, if you want, about a lot of things. For example, the Robles case and many others that you may not want to talk about. But you know, sir, when you start raising cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u412	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u413	I will finish, Mr. President. When you want to talk about judicial police, courts, always remember this name, sleep with him: Robles. Sleep with him!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u414	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u415	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u416	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u417	Is it really about the conduct of the work, which are you finishing?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u418	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u419	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u420	I know that Mr. President does not control Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Ventura had time to answer, at least he should have used it to answer the questions that have been asked...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u421	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u422	...and not to this shame of running away from what was asked. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-18.u423	As you know, that is not parliamentary practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the agenda, we need to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, Thursday, beginning at 3 p.m., a long agenda. In point 1, we will have a current debate required by the PSD under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on RTP - Public Service. Point 2 shows the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Change Law No. 17 / 2014 of 10 April, establishing the basis of the policy of planning and management of the National Maritime Area. In point 3, the assessment of petitions Nos 452 / XIII / 3 shall be carried out. a ( National Union of Post and Telecommunications Workers ) — Reversion of privatization of the CTT Corridors of Portugal and 611 / XIII / 4. a ( Rogério da Costa Pereira et al.) — They call for the development of the necessary procedures for the essential and urgent process of qualified participation of the Portuguese State in the social capital of the CTTs — Correios de Portugal, together with, in general, the Drafts of Law No 70 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) - Establishs the recovery regime for public control of CTTs and 84 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the regime for the nationalization of TTCs and with Resolution Projects Nos 30 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reversion of privatisation of CTTs and 108 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the quality of the universal public postal service. In point 4, the assessment of Petition No 545 / XIII / 4. a (Luís Miguel Machado Figueiredo et al.) — They request the opening of a Parliamentary Survey on the use of support provided to victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande. In point 5, the assessment of Petition No 586 / XIII / 4. a ( Silvia Maria dos Ramos Alves Sequeira et al.) — They request the adoption of defence measures of the Natural Reserve of Sado, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 14 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — About the dredgings in the sado estuary, 33 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revoke the authorisation granted to the Administration of the Port of Setúbal to advance with the dredgings in Sado and 46 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends suspension of dredgings in the Port of Setúbal. In point 6, the assessment of Petition No 607 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — They call for measures to be taken with a view to negotiating the mode and time frame for the recovery of all service time completed, together with, in general, Lein. 98 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Full accounting of all service time of careers and special bodies and 100 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time. In point 7, the assessment of Petition No 316 / XIII / 2. a ( uAPHu- Association of Heroic Parents ) — They request the creation of legislation that fills the lack of financial support and the rights of parents of children/ young people with cancer, together with, in general, Bill 91 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities, rare disease or oncological disease and determines the payment to 100 % of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer, 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening rights and conditions of follow-up to children with chronic, oncological or accident-related disease, 102 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the social and labor protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease and 111 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increases the initial parental leave period in 60 days in the case of birth of a child with disabilities or rare disease and increases the amount of the allowance for assistance to a child with disabilities, chronic illness or oncological disease, proceeding to 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February ( Labour Code ) to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal System of Social Protection in Parentality ) and 4. the amendment Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal Regime of Social Protection in the Parentality of Public Service Workers Integrated in the Convergent Social Protection Regime ). Finally, in point 8, the assessment of Petition No 497 / XIII / 3. a ( CGTP - General Confederation of Workers) — Against precarious employment with rights, together with Bills Nos. 11 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code) and 89 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 47 minutes.]]
