ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 35 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make several announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, the Proposal for a Law No 208 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 124 / 2018 of 28 December, which clarifys the rules applicable to the sharing of medicinal products and medical devices by the social protection system of workers in public functions, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. The Drafts of Law No. 1245 / XIII / 4 were also presented. a ( PCP ) — Assigns non-emergency transport to patients referred to other SNS hospitals within the framework of the action plan to combat waiting lists, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1246 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Legal arrangements for the hiring of scientific research personnel in training, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1247 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Defines the system of evaluation, certification and adoption of elementary and secondary school textbooks, ensuring their freeness, which falls to 8. the Commission. The following Resolution Projects were also entered: No 2256 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycle of the Germany, the municipality of Almada, and removes all the material with asbestos existing in its construction; n.o 2257 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take effective measures to ensure the provision of a public air cargo and mail service on route Lisboa-Third-Ponta Delgada-Lisboa or route Lisboa-Ponta Delgada-Third-Lisboa, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 2258 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recognizes the strategic importance of the new Public Central Hospital of Alentejo and the political commitment to the award of the construction work as soon as its competition is completed, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 2259 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Under dignified and safe conditions of rest and rest of drivers in the road sector, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 2260 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen public health response in the Beja district, which falls to 9. the Commission ; No 2262 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the classification of the work of José Afonso as of national interest, which falls to 11. the Commission ; No 2263 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Social emergency plan for Porto Santo, which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 2264 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that all licensed vessels operating in the WindFloat Atlantic project area are equally compensated, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 2266 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that a previous study is conducted to assess the terms of the review of the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, which falls to 9. the Commission ; No 2267 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Promotion and guarantee of accessibility for persons with disabilities to rail transport, which falls to 6. the Commission ; and No 2268 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Development of the deinstitutionalisation plan for people with disabilities, which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u3	Let us then get on the agenda, which is part of the debate on the state of the nation. To open the debate, as is regimential, the Government has 40 minutes, which will now be used by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, whom I greet. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: This debate of the State of the Nation is necessarily the balance sheet debate of this Parliament. Democracy lives from the alternatives and the first brand of this legislature was the affirmation of democratic vitality against fatalism, inevitability, the idea that there was no other way and that there was no alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u6	In democracy, there are always alternatives, there is always the possibility of opening new paths, there is always the freedom to choose, there is always the possibility of making different. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we have seen in so many countries, when the political system is unable to generate the necessary changes, the impasse blocks institutions, discredit undermines citizens' confidence and democracy gives way to populism. I would therefore like to greet the parliamentary groups of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party for having dared to break down an anachronistic wall... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and because they took responsibility for affirming a parliamentary majority as an alternative to government, ensuring the change of policy that the citizens wanted and that Portugal needed. contrary to what many have predicted, the majority that has been established has proved to be stable and lasting on the horizon of the legislature, able to fully comply with the joint positions that have given it consistency, to implement the Government Programme and to honour all international commitments in our country. The predictability of policies has been one of the central factors of trust over the past four years. The Portuguese ceased to live in the daily surplus of cuts in pensions or wages, in the uncertainty of the increase in taxes or the closure of services, in the incognition of amending budgets, in the instability of permanent constitutional conflict. It has been four years, step by step, fulfilling our commitments to the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It was four years with four budgets, each meeting the timetable of the measures envisaged and always achieving the targets that were estimated. It was four years of strong institutional cooperation of the Government with the Assembly and the President of the Republic, with strict respect for the independence of justice, regional autonomy and local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u8	It was four years in which we have never given up an extended parliamentary consensus on strategic investments, as we have ensured in the recent approvals of the National Investment Programme 2030 and of the Military Programming and Military Infrastructure Laws, which are fundamental to supporting the remarkable contribution of our Armed Forces, to the guarantee of Portugal's sovereignty, the international prestige of our country and its service to the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was four years in which we eliminated all discrimination in the law, depending on gender, identity and sexual orientation. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] And it was four years of constitutional normality, without a single request for preventive supervision, in which no rule by the Government was so far declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] In short, we have always ruled in harmony with the Constitution. Political stability, predictability of policies, institutional normality and respect for the Constitution are fundamental elements for the great gain of this legislature: the recovery of confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The data of the Eurobarometer are conclusive that this legislation was decisive for the recovery of Portuguese confidence in democracy, which more than doubled from 28 % in 2015 to 64 % at the end of 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate of the Government's programme, we have made a threefold plan for this legislature: more growth, better employment, more equality. Four years back, what balance can we make of these three designs? First, more growth. Portugal grew 9 % in real terms in these four years, having resumed in 2017, and continued in 2018 and 2019 a growth greater than the European Union average, resumed the interrupted convergence at the beginning of this century. It is a strongly sustained growth in business investment supported by the high implementation of Portugal 2020, but also by increasing exports, which reinforces our confidence that growth can continue with the productivity gains that investment induces and the competitiveness gains that higher market shares demonstrate. Secondly, more and better employment. In the four years of this legislation, 350 000 new jobs were created at the same time as an increase of 8, 2 % of the monthly net income of workers and a rise of the minimum wage of almost 20 %. But the best evidence of the highest quality of employment is the fact that 89 % of the new jobs on behalf of others are endless contracts,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which confirms that confidence in the future of the economy is the best antidote against precariousness. Thirdly, greater equality. From 2015 to 2017, there were 180 000 families who came out of the risk of poverty and 382,000 families who were freed from the situation of severe material deprivation, with the ratio comparing the income of the richest 10% to the poorest 10% reduced to the lowest value ever when assessing inequalities. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] In summary, more growth, better employment, more equality prove that there is even "more life than budget". [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u9	It was not the destruction of rights that generated growth, it was not the cut-off of wages that created jobs, it was not the huge increase in taxes that promoted equality, it was not the austerity that allowed us to have certain accounts. On the contrary, it was the turn of the austerity page that allowed the recovery of income, it was the recovery of income that generated confidence, it was the confidence that motivated the investment, it was the investment that created employment and it was the job that guaranteed the highest income. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This was the virtuous circle that opened the sustainable path to true accounts, with the lowest deficit in our democracy and the public debt to be reduced in 2018 to 121, 5 % and, this year, to continue to reduce to 119 % of gross domestic product. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us be clear: the Devil did not appear, nor did austerity disguise itself! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] For the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who liked it, I repeat. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us be clear: the Devil did not appear, nor did austerity disguise itself! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] You want me to say a third time? [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, we have the lowest deficit in our democracy,... [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] ... while public investment financed by the State budget increased by 45 %, which we created the social benefit for inclusion, which covers 93 000 families, which we reverse cuts and increase the actual value of more than 3 million pensions, which we alleviated the Portuguese in EUR 1000 million of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) per year, which we reduced the moderate rates by 15 %, which we made available free school textbooks to all primary and secondary school students, who increased the family allowance by 300 000 children and which drastically reduced the cost of public transport. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] More growth, more and better employment and greater equality, with true accounts. This is the key to the credibility that the country has regained and that is another essential factor for confidence in Portugal: the confidence that allowed us to leave the excessive deficit procedure and waste ratings; the trust that supports the continuous reduction of interest rates from 4 % to 0, 5 %, allowing us to pay less EUR 2000 million of interest this year than we paid in 2014; the confidence that attracted record values of foreign direct investment and that stagnated mass migration, again guaranteeing positive migration balances in the last two years. In short, in these four years, Portugal has improved, improving the lives of all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have fulfilled what we promised and we have results, but we know that trust is only sustainable when it is projected in the future, inspired by a medium- and long-term vision, such as the Agenda for the Decade, which we presented in 2014 and which we started to build in this legislature, with the strengthening of cohesion with our diaspora, broadening the granting of nationality and deepening the rights of participation in national life; with a more agile and close state, that SIMPLEX and decentralisation set up; with the effective priority to gender equality and to the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life; with the enhancement of the interior, forest reform, the recreation programme; with a new generation of housing policies; with the priority of the blue economy and the definition of a strategy for space; with the encouragement of entrepreneurship and the digital economy; with support to the capitalization of enterprises and the strengthening of their financial autonomy; with the renewed priority of adult education and neutrality throughout life; with investment for science, with investment, 2050; Yes, it was looking at the future that we ruled in this legislature. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This was not only a legislature to repair the heritage of the past and to take care of the present, it was also a legislature that launched the foundations of the future, based on a new model of development in which innovation is the engine of sustainable growth. It is because we have been, in these four years, also focused on the future, giving priority to major strategic challenges, such as the demographic challenge, climate change, the challenge of digital society or the sustainability of social security. We also have results in this strategic dimension. UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ) has recently considered that Portugal has, alongside Sweden, Norway, Iceland and Estonia, one of the best family support policies among 31 developed countries. The European Union's Innovation Panel has seen Portugal's progress in these years, putting us as the leader in innovative SMEs (small or medium-sized enterprises) and the tenths of being reclassified as a highly innovative country. According to the European Commission, Portugal was the country of the European Union which, last year, further reduced CO2 emissions, a reduction that was even triple the average of the European Union. Today, here, I can announce that, with the closure of the 2018 accounts, we have extended the sustainability of our social security over another 22 years since the beginning of this legislature. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be misunderstood. We don't live in an oasis or a pink country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u10	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u11	The positive balance sheet for these four years does not allow us to forget the problems that remain and that require answers. The measures adopted do not go without the measures we still have to take. The road that has already been taken does not exempt us from the way we still have to go. The already achieved only reinforces our motivation and determination to do what is needed. Portugal rose from 18. or to the 3rd. the safest place in the world, but we need to continue to invest in our security forces and services and in the working conditions of those in which Portuguese serve. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u12	in these four years, we have reduced judicial expectations by 35%, but we must continue to work to improve speed in justice. Today, we have the lowest early school dropout rate ever, but we must continue to invest in the quality of public school. The number of students in higher education has increased by 4 %, but we must continue to improve school social action to universalize access to higher education. We have admitted more 11,000 professionals in the National Health Service, but we must continue to reduce waiting times in health. We grow more, but we need to keep growing. There's better work, but the job needs to continue to improve. There is greater equality, but inequalities must continue to be reduced. We are well aware of the country's needs and the legitimate requirement of the Portuguese. So we do not deny the problems when they exist and, for each problem, we always seek the best solution. Let me give you three examples: firstly, in the face of the difficulty of renewing the Citizenship Card, we have simplified the process of renewal, we have increased the places where you can renew the card, we are contacting the citizens who will need to renew, proposing scheduled scheduling, and we have implemented the possibility of making the online renewal of the citizenship card. With all these measures from May to June, we increased the number of cards issued from 250 000 to 305 000. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, after years of de-investment, difficulties were manifested in the capacity to respond to public transport. We therefore act in the long term with a strong investment in the acquisition of new security and signaling systems, of compositions for the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), for the meters of Lisbon and Porto and of ships for the Transtejo. in this legislation, we have already invested four times as much as in the previous legislation in public transport, but at the same time we have sought to respond in the short and medium term, through the maintenance and recovery of the immobilized equipment. Today, the Soflusa and the Transtejo already have reserve vessels, the Lisbon metro already has in circulation the 30 compositions that were immobilized and the recent plan for the recovery of railway material will also allow the movement of dozens of compositions that are paralysed, and this month the completion of the works of electrification of the Douro Line to Marco de Canaves and the Mininho Line to Viana do Castelo will allow the movement of the compositions that today circulate to reinforce other unelectrified lines, notably the West Line. Thirdly, in health we also seek to respond to both the historical problems that have been dragged for years, or to the occasional or seasonal problems that are happening, as we did, even last week, with the management of the Lisbon maternity holiday plan. [[Rice from PSD Members Adam Silva and Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] Surely, the most impressive example is that of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João. After more than a decade without a solution to the problem, we have developed and approved a new project for the building, we guarantee the necessary funding for the construction and we are in a position to challenge them in the coming weeks. But from now on, we have reinstalled the children in the main building in order to ensure all treatment in conditions, dignity and safety. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u13	I have an idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny, nor do we escape from the problems. We do not resign and always seek the solution, even when it is difficult or morbid. It is up to us to do this, and that is exactly what we do: to do it! The moment is a balance, and we are here to account for the Portuguese so much that it has been done in just four years and so much that we still want to do. History will do its justice in its own time, with the necessary moderation and distance, but today I dare say: we have succeeded! We had even another way, it was even possible to do different, there was even an alternative, we even had the right to choose. Against fatalism, inevitability, pessimism, we proved that, yes, it was possible to make different, and we did different. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to thank all those who have built this alternative in this House of the Republic. I would like to thank all those who, over the past four years, have served as my colleagues in the government, but I would like to thank the Portuguese and Portuguese, who are truly the strength, the energy and the reason for our optimism. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Four years back, the country regained dignity, self-esteem, international respect and faces the future with optimism. Portugal is better than four years ago, because Portuguese live better today than they have lived four years ago. Portugal is better, because the Portuguese have regained confidence, have regained hope in their future, in their future and in the future of the country, hope based on solid bases than we have been building in these four years and are sure that it is possible to continue to do more and better. As Prime Minister, I share the tranquillity of consciousness with the lack of will, but I am, above all, a very proud Portuguese citizen of your country. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations, standing, doPS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u15	Six Members were registered for requests for clarification to the Prime Minister, to whom they will answer individually, according to the Bureau has already been informed. First of all, to this end, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, a contributing people crushed;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u17	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u18	... degraded and razed public services; in Europe, a country overcome and increasingly delayed; the interior burned and abandoned; of reformism, zero concrete; and the future completely postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u19	That's a poem! Deep down, it's a poem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u20	This is the sad state of the nation that you leave us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u21	This looks like Deolinda's 2013 music!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u22	And what does the Prime Minister do? Try or we don't notice or sign up. Always deny everything! Even against the reality of numbers and suffering in people's lives, you always deny everything. of the public services, which are at least, to the tax burden, which is at most, you always deny everything. the successive failures of the State to the theft of Tanks, from the harmful management in the Box to the multiplication of socialist families in government and administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u24	...you always deny and always try to hide everything. The curious thing is that you—who did everything, but everything, to have the power—when there is nonsense, soon escapes the responsibility that that power has given him. Your culture of irresponsibility is such that it has infected your government colleagues with the uprising to say that the fault of the chaos that has settled in public services is not yours, that it is yours to direct them, but — stop! — the Portuguese they need. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is his, above all, responsibility for the mediocre results of this governance and his responsibility for having wasted and wasted a unique historical opportunity, with an international environment as it has not been seen for decades... [[Rice from PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] ... and a very brave push from the ECB ( European Central Bank ). Mr. Prime Minister, your results are mediocres, and they are mediocres when measured by your own criteria. Let us see, then, your criteria and what was proposed here four years ago. You assured me that you would bring social peace. Do you remember? But strikes increase endlessly and collective conflicts do not stop increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u25	Is that a lie? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u26	In health alone, more than 72,000 working days have been lost this year, more than twice the last year of the previous government. You promised to end emigration. But since 2016, in this legislature, more than 300 000 Portuguese have left the country. [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u27	You promised us a growth that would bring us closer to Europe. But what do we see? Portugal grows less than all countries with whom it competes and compares. In all these years we have been overcome by some. How sad the lack of ambition of those who are happy when we are almost the last and we have 22 countries ahead of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u29	For the first time since 2012, last year, compared to the European average, GDP (gross domestic product) per Portuguese head has fallen — a fall! It was your wrong path and your lack of reforms that have achieved terrible feats such as the return of the damn external deficit, the fall in productivity and the fall in savings. It's certainly not the way we're going! Your only program, indeed, was to undo, to undo reforms, as if the laws and policies that were in force until 2009 had taken us nowhere! Mr. Prime Minister, he promised that he would strengthen public services, but what brought him, after all, was his degradation. They brought the collapse of the SNS (National Health Service) and, in your ideological blindness, they did everything to end the best schools and the best hospitals. What a sad fece a country that sees its government want to end the best! You promised you'd turn the austerity page, but you took the tax burden to the fullest and cut off your investment in public services to the minimum. All because of your responsibility! You promised a SIMPLEX that would make cows fly. And the Portuguese, after all, what did they have? They were waiting and desperate! Portugal has become a nation waiting. Waiting and desperate were the Portuguese, a means of civil protection that did not arrive, of the consultation or the surgery that was postponed, of the ship that was delayed or of the payment to which social security was missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it is with great regret that today I tell you that the Portuguese will look back and will not forgive this government or this Prime Minister, who, thinking only of themselves and the control of power, have given up reforming, gave up fighting for more, condemned the country waiting and so many Portuguese to despair. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u32	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u33	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, I am dispensing myself from adjectives and we are going to do so. And the facts are simple. Portugal resumed a growth trajectory above the European average, which had stopped in 2000.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u34	Little, very little!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u35	For the first time in 2017, 2018 and 2019, Portugal is growing above the European average. This is the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The main objective we set for economic policy was employment, employment, employment. We had an unemployment rate of more than 12, 6 % and now have an unemployment rate of 6, 6 %, 350 000 new jobs, 89 % of which have a contract without end. And more: this was done, unlike VV. They said, despite an increase of 20 % of the national minimum wage and a return of 8,2 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u36	And the ones who went out? And the ones who left? Don't you count? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u37	Moreover, the indices that measure inequality tell us that we have the lowest inequality ever. That is, we have more growth, better employment and greater equality. These were the objectives and these were the goals achieved. That's how we've been doing to solve the problems we've received and we've got to solve them. That's how we do in public school, that's how we do in public transport, and that's how we do in the National Health Service. I know they always prefer to look at the cases on the spot instead of seeing the reality of the numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u38	We'd rather look at people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u39	But what is the objective reality? Today, do we have more or less consultations? Oh, my God! Do we have more surgeries or less surgeries? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] The reality is that we have more than 16 000 surgeries than we had when you were in government, we have more 186,000 hospital consultations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u40	We've got people waiting, waiting...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u41	...we have 711 primary care consultations and, next week, we will meet the goal that we had proposed at the opening of 100. the USF(family health unit)! We are committed to creating 100 new USF and will create 100 new USF in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr Deputy, in fact, the results are mediocre in relation to what you see. They announced: they announced that, with the replacement of income, the investment was going to start and, after all, the investment grew, so they were in fact mediocres in the forecast! They had planned that, with the replacement of salaries and pensions, we would lead the country to a situation of excessive deficit procedure. We have removed the country from the excessive deficit procedure, removed the country from the waste rating and the interest rates are demonstrating the international trust and credibility that our country has regained. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, I'm glad you're sitting, because it's you who's gonna be waiting for the Devil to arrive! But wait and sit down! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u42	Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u43	Mr. President, Prime Minister, this PSD discourse of concern about public services does not cease to be hypocritical because we do not forget that the greatest attack on public services was made in the time of the previous Government, PSD / CDS. [[All right!]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u44	It was at the time of the previous government that privatized the CTTs ( Post Offices, Telegraphs and Telephones ). It was in the time of the previous government that closed courts, closed, and cut EUR 1000 million in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was also in the time of the previous government that almost dismantled the public transport service, privatizing all public transport companies. Public investment needs the cotton test. Let us see how much the former Government has mobilized from the State budget annually for public investment. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The annual average of the State budget for public investment between 2012 and 2015 was EUR 2100 million. Between 2016 and 2018, the State budget mobilised EUR 3000 million annually.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u46	This is the real test of cotton as regards the average annual budgetary effort for public investment. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It is more than EUR 900 million per year that the State budget mobilises for public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u48	Therefore, this proves that the investment has not been sacrificed for budgetary consolidation. And if public investment has increased from year to year as it has increased in 2019, this is mainly due to savings on public debt charges. There are hundreds of millions of euros that have been channeled to public investment, education, the National Health Service and transport. Let us remember that this government reversed the court in the National Health Service, corresponding to an investment of EUR 1300 million in the SNS, in this legislature. The SNS today has more 11 000 professionals and more 700 000 primary care consultations in this legislature, in view of the previous legislation, and the same is true of the surgeries, with more than 18 000. With regard to investment in transport, we see the single pass, a revolutionary measure in transport culture and in combating climate change. Let us look at the ongoing procedures for investment in the purchase of rolling stock, trains, ships and buses. We also look at the investment in the railway network, the North Line, the Douro Line, the Mine Line, the Low Beira Line, the High Beira Line. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u49	We also look at public investment in the expansion of the metropolitan networks of Porto and Lisbon and for public investment in the metro of Mondego. Let's look at the tax burden now. The right has said that this government increases taxes. That's fake! The taxes have reduced...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u50	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u51	The taxes have been reduced! The taxes have been reduced, which has increased is the tax revenue, the tax collection revenue! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, if there were any doubts about this, the last publication of the National Institute of Statistics came to say that — and I quote — « with the growth of the labour market and more employment, there are more people to pay IRS and contribute to social security». Therefore, it is natural that the IRS revenue and the revenue of social security contributions will grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u52	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u54	If we also look at the growth of the economy and the increase in consumption, despite the VAT rate (tax on value added) if it has remained unchanged and has even fallen to the restoration, the fact is that there is more domestic demand and more consumption, then VAT revenue increases. The taxes did not increase, on the contrary, they have reduced. Today, Portuguese pay less than EUR 1 billion in IRS. We removed the overtax of IRS and increased the minimum existence, with 150 000 families not paying IRS due to their very low incomes. All these measures have contributed to greater fiscal justice. In our view, the balance sheet of this Parliament tells us that Portugal is better and that Portuguese live better, tells us that it has been worth it. We proved there was an alternative. It was the victory of a political alternative against the conformism of the single pro-trotic route. And there are paradigmatic data that tell us that important achievements were made in this government. We have more than 350 000 jobs in relation to the inheritance that this government has received. Over the past two years, 180 000 Portuguese people have been at risk of poverty. The available income of families increased by 12 %. There has been a decrease in inequalities in the distribution of incomes as it has not been seen for many years. The growth of the economy was 9 % in this legislature and there is a convergence with the European Union and the euro area. Portugal grows year after year above the average growth of the European Union and the euro area. The financial system is stabilized. Public accounts are consolidated. Investment grew almost 17 % compared to 2015. Exports now account for 44 % of gross domestic product. The foreign direct investment stock reached a new maximum in the first quarter of this year, of EUR 120 billion. Now this completely contradicts what the right says: "No one will invest in a country governed by socialists supported by communists and bloggers. Do not keep on seeking. ” I shall finish, Prime Minister, by raising a question. We have more employment, more economy, more social cohesion. And since we are talking about social cohesion, last week the Housing Bases Act was approved, for which the PSD and CDS preferred to vote against ideological prejudice. The fact is that the Basic Law is a strong step forward in fulfilling the constitutional plan of a home for all. in this sense, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you agree that the Basics Act will have to be one of the strongest bets on the Agenda for the Decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u55	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u56	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I believe that one of the fundamental marks of this legislation is that we have definitely assumed that the country needed a new generation of housing policies. And this culminates and consolidates with the existence of a Housing Base Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u57	What about the results? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u58	And this was a fundamental priority, because unfortunately at the beginning of the century, the country had abandoned the need for a public housing policy, creating the illusion that, eradicated the barracks in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, no longer needed public housing policies. The experience revealed that this was a mistake, because it was based on two unsustainable assumptions: that it was possible to permanently distort the rental market by freezing incomes or that it was possible to distort what was the country's solvency capacity, through constant indebtedness of families by resorting to housing credit. A new paradigm was needed — from the new construction to the rehabilitation and purchase of own house to the lease. Unfortunately, as soon as it has been revealed, the option adopted was to liberalise the lease market without rules. But as it was good to see, and Europe as a whole has seen for many years, the liberalisation of the lease market does not make it more accessible, it simply makes it more speculative. From that point on, the need to relaunch housing policy once and for all. That is why we created a Secretary of State for Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u59	And the results? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u60	That is why we launched a strategy of a new generation of policies, which responds to different needs: the emergency situation, the situation of social shortage, but also the growing need of the middle class to access housing. Today, the best answer we have to give to the new generations who want and who have the ambition to build their future in Portugal is to guarantee them that their future can be built in Portugal, with a more stable and less precarious job and combating precarious housing, ensuring everyone access to affordable rental of decent houses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u61	The Housing Basics Act is essential because it definitely structures the fundamental right in Article 65. that of the Constitution, but which, until now, had never been properly developed and regulated. And, if I may, I would like to extend a special greeting to a woman with whom I have had the pleasure of working very closely for eight years in the municipality to which I chaired and who culminates in an extensive political career with the decisive contribution he has made to have a new house-based law, which is Mrs. Helena Roseta. [[P.S. and, standing by, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] But, Mr, it is very curious to see what the right says today about our government action and compare with what they said at the beginning of the legislature. I would even say that the best compliment that they can make to the success of our governance is to be demanding us today to go beyond what they thought four years ago was absolutely impossible to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What was impossible four years ago now seems to be insufficient. But, just as we have not listened to them for four years and have kept the conviction that it was even possible to do what was necessary, it is also appropriate now not to listen to them and not to go beyond what we can go, so as to ensure that we will not miss anything that we have so hard conquered for the Portuguese over the four years of this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u63	No, we don't want to go back, we don't want to go back to the time when the right governed us, with the results it had for the country and for the day-to-day life of Portuguese and Portuguese. That is why we need to continue with the confidence that we are meeting the goals we set and that we will achieve each of these goals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u64	To request clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to the balance sheet you made of this legislation and I follow you in greeting the political solution we found in 2015. On the other hand, the despair on the right shows the correct decision at that time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u66	And I would also like to stress, as you did, the importance of joint positions because, as a result of the agreements, the Government's programme was not simply the Socialist Party's programme. The Socialist Party wanted to freeze pensions and social benefits. Today he is proud to have done the opposite, and still well. The defrosting of pensions and social benefits was incorporated into the Government's programme through the agreement with the Block and ensured the increase of pension to more than 3 million pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u68	We did it by always protecting the accounts of social security. The agreement prevented the decline of the TSU (unique social rate) employer that the PS had promised to the bosses in its program and opened the way to new sources of funding. The agreement with the Block incorporated into the Government's Program the end of unconstitutional cuts of wages right in the first year of the Legislation, guaranteed new steps to relieve the IRS and set clear objectives for the rise of the national minimum wage. The more than 700 000 workers who earn more than 95 € per month today than in 2015 know that if we had left everything in the hands of social consultation, as proposed by the PS, the employers would never have agreed to this recovery of the minimum wage. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u69	Support for the most vulnerable was possible because of the 2015 agreements. Mr. Prime Minister may not remember anymore, but EDP does not forget that it was the Block that forced her to extend the social energy tariff to 800 000 poor families. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In 2015, many considered it impossible for the agreements to be respected. Almost no one believed that even the horizon of the legislature was fulfilled, a legislature that eliminated cuts in wages and pensions, blocked privatization, stopped impoverishment, recovered dignity. What is insufficient today many have considered unattainable in 2015. Those were the possible agreements, at that moment and with the strength that the left then had. We would go back to 2015, and under the same conditions, I would sign them back. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u70	in these four years we were, however, in addition to the agreements in always difficult processes: the PREVPAP (Programa de Regularização Extraordinarye dos Bondos Precarias na Administración Pública ), the process of regularization of State precariouss, had delays and met boycotts, as is happening in science, in higher education, but has already bound thousands of precariouss and must continue without leaving anyone behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u72	We created the status of the informal caregiver, a first step that had so much resistance on the part of the PS and that allows to start caring for those who care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u74	We have just passed a Basics Law on the Left, which we will strive to achieve so that the right to housing is a reality. We have strengthened measures to combat poverty and the universality of the social state: the end of cuts in unemployment benefit and the humiliation of fifteen-year presentations, free school textbooks, new steps in public transport, the descent of the tips at the university. However, it is Mr Prime Minister who has just recognized that the government has failed in areas where agreements have been less concrete, in public investment to recover public services. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] Where our agreement did not leave clear and quantifiable objectives, the government maintained the same restrictive logic that impoverished the country. Health and transport are perhaps the most visible face of this error. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u75	Instead of taking advantage of economic growth to strengthen the country, the government has chosen to exacerbate the deficit in public services so that Mário Centeno shines in deficit races in Brussels to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u76	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u77	Having a President of the Eurogroup is weak comfort for those who are waiting hours for the train or boat or for those who are waiting for too many months for a consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u79	This deficit, which is a deficit in public investment and degraded public services, is the biggest problem we have to deal with and is the major challenge of the next legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] With this question is related another file still open in this Legislation, that of the Health Bases Act. Mr. Prime Minister knows our position. Be the government available to prevent promiscuity between public and private, which has weakened the SNS, and the Block here is for a Health Base Act that saves the National Health Service. The PS has already said everything and its opposite. He even went to negotiate with whom he never wanted the SNS and even opposed his development. Here you come, the Left Block doesn't change position.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u80	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u81	And the question I ask you, Prime Minister, is very simple: are we going to approve a new basic law in order to protect the National Health Service or the Government wants to make both new PPPs (public-private partnerships) that prefer to keep the laws on the right? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u82	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u83	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, there is one point where we agree: if we were in 2015 I would sign the same position again. Only with a small difference: not being in 2015, I would also make the same decision again. And I would make the same decision again for the simple reason that it proved to be good and the results are good, and they are -in their entirety. I think the worst thing we could do was this game of understanding that all that is good depended on each one of us and that all that is bad was due to others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that, of course, is very unfair for the Greens Ecological Party, it is very unfair for the Portuguese Communist Party and, let me tell you, it is even unfair for the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u84	It's true! [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u85	I think what we have to take on as a whole is the passive and active part of this legislature. I take all the assets and liabilities of this legislation for myself. And it is true that even those aspects which did not include agreements with the Left Block included, for example, the agreement with the Greens on priority investment in rail.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u87	It is not by chance that this Parliament has invested four times more in public transport than what was invested in the previous legislation. In fact, it was not in agreement with the Left Block, but it was in the Socialist Party's programme, it was in agreement with the Greens, it was repeatedly in debate, and life does not begin and ends with the Left Block agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As in health, it is true, concrete goals were not set, but reality is fortunately above what was planned to do four years ago. And perhaps four years ago we never imagined that we would be able to restore everything that the right had cut in the National Health Service, with an increase of investment in the National Health Service in 4600 million euros throughout the legislature. There were 13 % increase in investment in the National Health Service. This increase allowed us not only to have 11 000 more professionals; it allowed us not only to have the 100 USFs that we were committed to; it allowed us to have several tens of health centers, but above all to have what is most important: the Portuguese had more consultations than they had today, more surgeries than they had, either in hospitals or in primary health care. That's what makes the difference and that's the difference that we can actually realize. And I think there are good reasons why we can be comforted by what are the conditions we have today so that we can do more and better. It is that today the country no longer has the debt shed with the size that we had four years ago. And thanks to certain accounts, we have sustainedly reduced the deficit, we have always had positive primary balances. Today, we have a smaller debt and save the Portuguese 2000 million a year in debt interest. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Now, it is EUR 2000 million that we can reinvest. This is not about the brightness of Mário Centeno or anyone else in Brussels, it is about the brightness of Portugal, it is about the brightness of the Portuguese, it is something that will benefit all Portuguese. And I'm sure the Left Block didn't want a bigger deficit and that instead of being investing more in health or education, we're going to spend more money on interest. Surely that's not what the Left Block would want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, Mrs Deputy, the success of this legislation is precisely the result of this balance. I do not, of course, deny the contribution of the Left Block, as I do not deny the contribution of the CFP, as I do not deny the contribution of the Greens, but, Madam Member, we would never be here, as we are, unless the Socialist Party were the fundamental basis of this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As also history will not be rewritten, because it was in a government of the Socialist Party that the National Health Service was created, it was always in the governments of the Socialist Party that the National Health Service was developed and it must always be in the governments of the Socialist Party that we will continue to develop the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I hope that under no circumstances will you join your vote on the PSD and the CDS to approve the health-based law already established in the working group, keeping the 1990 law in force, which promotes competition between the private sector and the public sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Anyone who wants to defend the National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free, has only one thing to do: not keep the current Basics Law in force and approve a new Basics Health Law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u88	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u89	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have seen another chapter of the Country António Costa versus the Real Country, where any similarity to reality is pure coincidence and any end of austerity, which once again announced, pure fiction. Mr. Prime Minister, the Real Country, governed by Antonio Costa, has the maximum tax burden and the minimum public services. I refer to two examples of what you talked about but nothing clarified: health and transport. Mr. Prime Minister, on health, the country governed by Antonio Costa has exhausted professionals, as never before; more debts to hospitals, as never before; deferred surgeries, as never before; more waiting times for the realization of complementary means of diagnosis; more equipment to replace; more hospitals without money to acquire medicines; more waiting times in continuous care and, more serious, more and more waiting time for the first consultation. Mr. Prime Minister, three examples: Vila Real, vascular surgery, 1053 days of waiting; Vale do Sousa, cardiology, 1048 days of waiting, Garcia da Horta, Almada, dermatology, 865 days of waiting. Mr. Prime Minister, is this meeting what you promised? Is this the end of austerity, Prime Minister? You also promised that at the end of the Legislature all Portuguese would have a family doctor, but Mr. Prime Minister, by the end of the Legislature, there are 740 000 Portuguese without a family doctor, so you did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u90	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u91	Just as he promised the construction of five new hospitals — Lisbon, Sintra, Évora, Madeira and Seixal — and, Prime Minister, four State budgets and not one hospital was built, zero, so he cannot come here to say that he did what he really failed to accomplish. Mr. Prime Minister will say—I know! — they recruited more staff, more doctors. Mr. Prime Minister, you may even have more people, but what you don't have is people to take care of us, to take care of the patients, and that's where they need them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You, basically, always make the same mistake: it's excellent to announce, bad to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u92	You have done exactly the same with transport, that is, you are taking a measure — and well! — that promotes demand, but does not take care of the offer: « this is soon seen, this is for the next Parliament ». However, you have to take account of this legislation, Mr Prime Minister, and at the moment what we have are ships that do not leave the barrier, are people who cannot have consultations, who cannot come to work, cannot come to take care of their affairs because they simply do not have means of transport, they do not have ships. What we see are closed trains, not to mention trains that don't run because they don't have a motor. Mr Prime Minister, is he aware that during his government 12 000 carriages have been removed on the Sintra line? Mr. Prime Minister, do you know that the complaints have reached the highest point ever? And is Mr. Prime Minister still saying that, in his pink country, he decreed the end of austerity? Oh, my God! No, no! Mr. Prime Minister, four years of your majority, four State budgets and Mr. Prime Minister are still saying that it is the troika's fault? Oh, my God! No, Mr. Prime Minister, the responsibility is yours and for one reason: you have not fulfilled it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u94	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, first of all, the Portuguese will pay less than EUR 1 billion of IRS than they paid when you supported the government in office this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese pay less VAT today in the restoration, the Portuguese pay less IRC (tax on the income of the public) when they invest, especially when they invest in the interior. Now, what happens — and you want to pretend and ignore — is that if revenue is higher today is not because we have increased the rate or extended the base of incidence, it is only and exclusively because of a factor that is highly positive: today the economy grows and this generates more revenue; today there are more jobs and more social security contributors; today there are more jobs and fewer unemployment allowances; today there is more employment and this is good for the country, it is not bad, it is good, and it is especially good for each and every one of the 350 000 Portuguese who today have a new job. On the other hand, if you ask them whether they prefer to have employment and discount for social security, thus seeing their tax burden increased, or being unemployed and not contributing to social security, I assure you that they will all say that there is still a job, because employment is really what is fundamental to our personal achievement and to the financial sustainability of the country. The honourable Member, before listening to me, had already brought his written questions and therefore did not hear what I said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u95	Listen! Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u96	... that we don't live in a pink country nor do we live in an oasis. There are problems and, in the face of the problems, we are looking for solutions, and I have signaled. It is true that we have 11 000 more professionals in the National Health Service, but we must continue to work to reduce waiting time and that is what we are going to do. It is not to privatize the National Health Service, it is not to give up doing what we have been doing, it is to continue to do what we are doing, in order to ensure that all Portuguese are able to reduce waiting times. And we will do more, we will continue to work to fulfill what is foreseen in the State Budget, which is the launch of the five new hospitals that you mentioned, the eastern part of Lisbon, the center of Alentejo, the one of Funchal, the one of Seixal, and all the others. It is planned to be built in the State budget and that is what we are fulfilling. Mr President, today there are fewer standing compositions than there was in the time when the government was supported by you. I gave you the example of the subway recently. Do you know how many metropolitan compositions were stopped? 30! Do you know how many are stopped? None, because we've noticed them all and they're back in operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the investments that were made in the maintenance and security system allowed the metropolitan to resume a commercial speed of 60 km/h and thus increase the supply by 5 %. In fact, your problem is not with the offer, your problem is to have voted against the reduction of the tariff.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u97	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u98	...and, basically, everyone realizes that if the CDS and PSD were to be government again social passes would rise again and the Portuguese would pay back what they paid for public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, finally, the accounts are wrong. It is 700 000 Portuguese who came to have access to a family doctor because when we arrived to the government it was more than one million and now it is 300 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u99	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u100	And what will happen at the end of the tendering procedure is that we will ensure that 97% of the Portuguese will have a family doctor at the end of this legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u101	Until October?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u102	We cannot reach 100 %, it is true, but we cannot reach 100 % because of the lack of sufficient resources, sufficient candidates, and not because of the lack of opening of vacancies, not because of any kind of captivity, because there are no captivating in health, and there is one thing we guarantee: we are at this point three percentage points in this objective and surely we will fulfill it in the first year of the next Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u103	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u104	Mr President, Prime Minister : The state of the nation is the state of a country that has stagnated some of the most serious social chagas and is the state of a people who, by recovering rights and incomes, have regained hope in the future. This does not hide the serious structural problems that remain to be resolved nor popular dissatisfaction with expectations to be realized. All of this clarifys the question that is being raised for the future, which is to make choices to defend the rights gained and advance in its deepening. The last four years prove that it is in the enhancement of the rights of workers and the people that is the key to our development and progress. The policy of impoverishment and aggravating exploitation has been interrupted, rights and incomes have been lost, positive steps have been taken with measures to enhance the rights of workers and the people and the result is ahead, with economic growth, the reduction of unemployment and poverty and a positive financial situation in social security. On the contrary, the refusal by the PS of the solutions proposed by the CFP to a true alternative policy leads to the maintenance of the structural problems that threaten our future. These are a living example of the problem of public indebtedness, which continues to weigh as a knife on our heads, or the problem of the lack of measures for the development of the rural world and the prevention of fires, which, two years after the tragic fires of 2017, are missing, continuing to bring the rural world back to abandonment and raising concerns about the recurrence of tragedy. As the Parliament is coming to an end, time is a balance sheet, but it is still a requirement of measures that should not be expected. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, what options will the PS government still make in terms of labour legislation? There is a political will of the PS to break with labour legislation in favour of exploitation and precarious employment and without rights, and Members will not lack the votes or proposals of the CFP to repeal the serious standards of labour law and defend the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u106	We also ask about the problems encountered in public transport and services, especially in the National Health Service. What measures will the government take to recruit staff and make investments without waiting for the next legislation, applying what has been decided in the State budgets in order to further respond to the problems that are felt every day in the lives of users? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, one last question I want to leave to you in this debate on free school textbooks. This measure was one of the achievements with greater social and environmental scope of the legislature and for which the PCP is very proud to have made its contribution. But what happened in the last few weeks, with the imposition of re-use without looking at the consequences, with parents forced marathons to delete books, families forced to pay school textbooks and threatened with the exclusion of gratuity in the next school year, children forced to shut down the entire year's work to, at the end, deliver a manual that can hardly be reused, none of which results from what we have approved in this House nor makes sense for a measure that is to be valued. Mr. Prime Minister, in wages, pensions, labour and social rights, in public services, in the environment and in development, not going back, it is necessary to move forward. This is the feeling that prevails in the Portuguese, in the protesters who are meeting today in front of the Assembly of the Republic, demanding, indeed, the central idea that progress is necessary, and we have many ways to move forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u108	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we are aware of the difficulties in applying the re-use measures of school textbooks. in the first year, there is a 50% re-use rate, but we have to go with it on a case-by-case basis and see how it is possible to improve this measure, so that it has the intended benefits and does not cause unnecessary problems to families, schools, teachers and society as a whole. Secondly, on the health issues you have raised, we will continue to solve the problems step by step, as we have done so far. There was still a huge discussion last week about the shift of maternity in the city of Lisbon and it was possible to find a concrete answer. There are seasonal problems, there are topical problems and there are structural problems, and it is in these structural problems that we must always continue to concentrate on giving a structural response. From that point of view, I hope that the adoption of the Health Bases Act can make an important contribution to helping us have a structured and consolidated policy to solve deep health problems. With regard to the rural and inland world, an important set of measures to encourage the dynamisation and revitalization of the interior has been adopted throughout this legislature. In the last open competition for business investment support, 43 % of the innovation measures were precisely for low-density territories, which means that a number of companies are being set up or existing companies are reinvesting. A very great work was done by the authorities, by owners, by the entire society to make the territory more adapted to the high risk of forest fire. Never like last year and in this there was so much cleaning of bushes around residences and villages, with opening of fuel interruption tracks. We must continue to move forward to protect the forest and, fortunately, the Assembly of the Republic has recently passed the new law that allows us to generalize to the whole country the project of simplified registration, in order to have better conditions in order to be able to intervene in the entire forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It must be borne in mind, as we all have, that what we need to do in the forest is a herculean challenge and for many and many years. And we run against time, because climate change is going to increase the risk and, if we don't intervene quickly in the forest, that risk increases exponentially. That's why we have to win this fight and this counterwatch. As far as labour legislation is concerned, we know our position and the proposed law that we have for a long time in the Assembly of the Republic. It is the first labour law since 1976 that does not compress but extends the rights of workers. It is the first labour law since 1976 which has strengthened the rights of workers and stimulated collective bargaining, which is absolutely decisive — in this legislature, we have increased the number of workers covered by a collective decision by 75 % and we must continue on this path — which responds positively to an urgent need for employment, which is the fight against precariousness, eliminating two requirements of recourse to the term contract: young people seeking the first job or being unemployed for long term. We have also proposed a reduction in the amount of time it is possible to be in a contract without end, the limitation of the number of renewals of the contract without end, and the penalisation of companies which abuse the use of the term contracts. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] It is the whole of this legislation that the Assembly of the Republic can approve and I hope it will. In conclusion, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have already made an important journey, but as you used to say, 'while there is a way, we continue to walk'. There is a way to walk and we must continue to do so, because that is what our people ask us to do, that is to say, that we continue to make the way, but following the right path, because, as the people also say, «He who puts himself in shortcuts, gets into work». For this reason, it has been enough for work and what matters now is the safe way we will go, with a firm, determined step and in the right direction. That is what we must do, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u109	To conclude this first round of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u110	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying, in a very direct way, by the Green Party, that the country is now better than four years ago during the governance of the PSD / CDS. Of course, because we changed the paradigm. For the PSD government / CDS, for the country to be better it was necessary that the Portuguese were worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u111	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u112	in this legislature, it became clear that for the country to be better, it is necessary for the Portuguese to be better.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u114	Therefore, Prime Minister, it was precisely because of this paradigm change that we had to restore income, restore rights, that is, what the PSD and CDS had stolen from the Portuguese... [[Stealed?! Stolen?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u115	...was, in fact, a replacement. But he didn't... [[Protests from the PSD and CDS-PP, having hand-strengthened Members at the end of the benches.]] As a result, more jobs were created, so the economy was boosted and, therefore, the PSD and CDS realized that making different would bring better results. So it was absolutely curious to hear in a media agency today, Mr Fernando Negrão said that if the PSD were now in the government, he would, of course, have returned the income to the Portuguese, because that would be the most basic justice. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Fernando Negrão, we remember us so well but so well to hear the then Prime Minister of the PSD tell the Portuguese: « Do not think that wages will ever be what they were in 2011 ». You don't fool anyone else! Nobody! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it was also possible to reverse other deep ash committed by the PSD Government / CDS, in particular the authorship of the then Minister Assumption Cristas, such as the famous law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, which spread more monocultures of eucalyptus by the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u116	Now they have more eucalyptus than before!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u117	... with severe consequences in terms of forest fires, our biodiversity and adaptation to climate change. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was possible to reduce the price of social passes by encouraging citizens to use collective transport, which was a fundamental measure to combat climate change. It was possible to create more means for the conservation of our nature and for the surveillance of our forest. What was impossible, after all, became possible. Why? Because, so far, there was a logic of decreasing the number of public servants and it is essential to realize that when human resources are removed from the state, from public services, what is done is to reduce the effectiveness of public services. For public services to work, they effectively need workers. So let us reverse that logic too. And we will also reverse the logic of closing the railway lines, with a brutal consequence at the level of the country's interiority, something that the PSD and the CDS have done in an absolutely vehement and negative way for the country. A greater bet on the railway and the replacement of railway lines was essential. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there is indeed something that the PS has never been able to turn off: a certain obsession with the deficit, which has led us not to go any further. It even put the deficit below what was outlined, having been « more papist than the pope», which caused the country to waste investment possibilities that would be fundamental to combating other deficits and in a faster manner. More investment is needed in health, education, culture and transport, because in fact we need not only lower prices but also better transport. There are other decisions taken by the PS, of which the Greens would indeed like to demarcate. We are absolutely not in agreement with the devaluation that PS has made in relation to fundamental environmental policy instruments, such as strategic environmental assessment and environmental impact assessment in the decision it made in relation to the new Montijo airport or in the research and exploitation of lithium, including in classified areas. We do not agree with the non-suspension of oil and gas research contracts, particularly in the area of Battle and Pombal, or with the bet that the PS continues to make on the proliferation of intensive olives. We have done a lot in this legislature, Mr. Prime Minister, but we could have done more and there are also things that the PS should not have done. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u118	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u119	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it is very clear that the path of impoverishment and destruction of rights as a way for the growth and competitiveness of the country was a monumental mistake. If today the country has economic growth it is because it has investment; if it has investment it is because there was trust, and confidence resulted from the strategy of returning income to citizens. That was the basis of trust.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u120	When did the growth start?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u121	So the strategy that the right has followed is an absolutely wrong strategy and at all costs we must avoid repeating it. in the same way, we must remember that the liberalisation of incomes and the liberalization of eucalyptus are the origin of two of the great problems that the country has to face today. And if we don't have a bigger problem in public transport is because this government has still arrived in time to stop the privatisations of the subway, of the STCP (Society of Collective Transport of Port ), that the PSD and the CDS were preparing to do and that they would decisively compromise the possibility of having a serious investment in public transport. Mrs Deputy, the government does not have an obsession with the deficit. The reduction of deficit and the reduction of debt are conditions for good governance and a condition for us to have the necessary means to do what is necessary. If we had not had this deficit reduction, if we had not had positive primary balances, if we had not managed to leave the excessive deficit procedure, if we had not managed to have a new debt rating, we would not save the Portuguese EUR 2000 million this year. And these EUR 2000 million, for example, allow, without increasing the deficit, to cover the EUR 1000 million that Portuguese save on IRS and finance the more than EUR 1600 million that we will invest in the National Health Service this year compared with 2015. That is why we need to continue this healthy path of consolidation of public finances, while at the same time doing what is necessary to improve the quality of public services, Portuguese income, conditions for more and better employment, better public school, better SNS. That is what we must continue to do in a harmonious way. The options are not dilemmaatic. We don't have to have an uncontrolled deficit to be able to do what is right and prove it to us. We have increased by 45% the public investment financed by the State budget despite the fact that we are reducing our deficit; we have increased four times the investment in public transport even though we are reducing the deficit; we reject wages, pensions, we create new social benefits, such as social benefits for inclusion, even though we are reducing the deficit. So it was not the reduction of the deficit that stopped what was necessary to do, because we did what was necessary to do. When we look at public transport, see the following: It was not because of the deficit that we did not open the contest to purchase 10 new ships for the Soflusa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u122	It takes people! That one's not on his own!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u123	It is not because of the deficit that ships have not yet arrived, it is because the competition takes their time and the ships take time to arrive. It is not because of the deficit that we did not open the contest for the 22 new CP compositions; we opened the contest but it takes time and the compositions will take time to arrive. It is not because of the deficit that we did not open competitions for the extension of the metropolitan network of Lisbon or Porto, that is, we did everything we had to do and, nevertheless, we managed to reduce the deficit. That is why I would like the Green Party to also rejoice, because it has proved, together with all of us, that good financial governance is not a monopoly on the right and that, on the contrary, with good policies at the service of people and at the service of development it is possible to have good management of public accounts. That is what enables us to have more growth, better employment and greater equality with certain accounts, which is an invaluable asset and is a good that is also credited to the benefit of the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u124	Mr. Prime Minister, congratulations to you, Ex. We are now passing on to the remaining 11 requests for clarification which Mr Prime Minister has and which he will answer together at the end. The first request for clarification is from Mr António Costa Silva, PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u125	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, in the first round, the Prime Minister has shown here that the 'Syrian Government' in Portuguese is in fact still in denial a government which, in fact, at the level of the implementation of the Community funds is facing a disastrous situation, a rate of implementation of 35 % over five and a half years. The main funds and programmes directly related to public investment have a disastrous implementation rate: in the Cohesion Fund it is 21 % and in the regional funds it is between 19 % and 23 %. We meet in the final line of Portugal 2020 and the rate of funds for social equipment is zero, Prime Minister. The rate of implementation in health equipment is almost zero, in school equipment is little above zero and in scientific, technological and business infrastructures is zero. What's your apology, Prime Minister? We already know of many skills, of many skills, Mr. Prime Minister, when things run very badly! In fact, he usually apologizes to the previous government when things go wrong, that government that saved the country from bankruptcy. At other times, when things are still worse, what Mr. Prime Minister usually does is disappear: flee the country, go on vacation. This occurred during the fires of 2017 and 2018. More recently, he discovered a new skill, that of "throwing to the ground". You remind that footballer who enters the area, you feel pressured by opponents, and what do you do? He throws himself to the ground and says: « Penalti! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And the referee gets penalized. That's what Mr. Prime Minister does. The referee, pressured by the opponents, what do you do? Keep the penalty, don't even go to the VAR (video referrer). This is precisely what the Prime Minister has done with the situation of the teachers and is being contagious in this government. For it is, Mr. Prime Minister, that you joyfully deceive the Portuguese, but the country is impoverished sadly. Mr. Prime Minister, how can you justify such incompetence? What is the government's ability to justify these bad results in the implementation of Community funds, which have a umbilical relationship with the implementation of public investment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u126	We then move on to the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u127	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the state of the right in this debate shows the state in which they have been in the past four years, a state of total disorientation. They called the devil repeatedly, but in fact, who went down to hell was the PSD and the CDS, still clinging to the troika's past and, above all, because, contrary to what they said, there was proved to be an alternative. That is why we consider that the way we started in 2015 was worth it and that is the position of the Left Block. But, looking back, we know that life did not start or end in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, nor in its macroeconomic scenario, and we would never be here if the PS had fulfilled its program: it would maintain the freezing of pensions; it would continue to attack wages longer, with institutional cuts; it would retain the weight of taxes on labour income for longer. The support that domestic consumption would never have happened and the economy would never have created jobs nor would it have grown as it grew. But we also know that, even though some have signed the agreement on the left, there are still orphans of this electoral programme of the Socialist Party and there are even some who seem to be jealous of this electoral programme of the Socialist Party, of the agreements on the left and of the governance that ended. Therefore, of the interpretations that we can make of the various incomplete phrases — some inconclusive, but all politically conclusive — is that the longings of an absolute majority are only and only to return to this electoral program of the PS, which would not redistribute pensions and would let austerity, even in a light way, be in the lives of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u129	We assume the assets and liabilities of this legislature and we assume the four State budgets as a whole, as an asset but not as a liability for non-compliance with the government's public investment. When Mr. Prime Minister said, weeks ago, that one of the problems was the lack of investment in public services, the answer is in his government, it is not even in the budgets of the State which the Assembly of the Republic approved, because if they had been well implemented that investment would have taken place. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u130	But I wanted to ask you a very direct question about the Health Bases Law. Mr. Prime Minister has already responded here to my comrade Catarina Martins and has already spoken several times publicly about it, but very direct question is: Does the PS stand-by to keep the laws on the right, the laws of Durão Barroso, to create new PPPs in health? It is that I give you the answer of the Left Block to this Socialist Party's foot farm: if the PS dare to be the patron of the laws of Durão Barroso, then you will have to stand up here and make a choice. Either you stand next to the right, to bring down the law of bases of Arnaut and João Semedo, or you stand next to those who defend the SNS and vote on the proposal of the Block of Left, which is their proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u131	To make a request for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u132	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, I would like to confront you with an issue which is, in essence, whether in this oasis where you live does not indicate any erosion of the functions of sovereignty. I begin directly with a question: Tanks. With regard to Tankos and regardless of the judicial issue—we will arrive at that time—I will quote it, as soon as it opens: « The Committee of Inquiry has done a very enlightening work». I absolutely agree, it is absolutely true, Mr Prime Minister, that the Committee of Inquiry found, unequivocally, that the then Minister of National Defence, Professor Azeredo Lopes, two days after the stagnation of the so-called 'finding of arms', had known that there was an agreement, there was a contract, that this contract was concluded with the traffickers, was concluded with the informants and that everything was a huge scene. We know, the Committee of Inquiry found out, that he knew about this. How he reacted, whether he valued or not, it is already another matter, but he knew. You replied to that same Committee of Inquiry that you were pleased and that Minister Azeredo Lopes had given you knowledge — and I will quote it again — « of all that you considered relevant or that I have requested». Now, for a year he heard of the staging and you were satisfied because he told you everything he had to know or that you asked him to know. It is clear from here that the question is obvious, Mr Prime Minister, and I ask you to take this opportunity and tell us once and for all what he said to you, what he did not tell you, what you did not tell you, what you knew and, if you knew, then why did you do not do anything, and if you did not know how you could come now to say that a minister who knew and told you nothing deserves all consideration and all political confidence, as you said still this week. Don't beat the boot with the partridge, Mr Prime Minister! The idea that remains is a pattern of political irresponsibility, which, moreover, we had seen before, for example, in the case of fires and of Pedrogon, because obviously there were absolutely extreme conditions but there was also extreme incompetence. Ministers come out but never happens, there is never political responsibility in their government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u134	Second and second issue, Mr Prime Minister. You, and I am going to quote it again, said now that your « high priority is the fight against corruption and investment in public services». You said that, Mr. Prime Minister, quoted in the newspapers, with your face, there is no doubt. It is their priority to combat corruption. What, of course, I want to ask you, why is there a question for us at the outset: is that an intention or a confession? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u135	When you say «I am now going to start the fight against corruption», what is evident is that until now you have done nothing! And indeed you did not, Prime Minister. Listen to the Director of the DCIAP ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ), hear the Director of the PJ ( Judicial Police ), hear the presidents of the trade unions, whether the magistrates or the PJ, and what do they say? « Blackboard. « A reduced picture as never existed ». I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister : « as never existed in the Judicial Police. Do not keep on seeking. ” « An average age of 48 years. "There are no equipment, no means. « A budget equal to 2005 ». That is the budget that you have and in the table, where they could be 3000, is 1100. So we're talking about asphyxiation, we're talking about an absolute disaster, and I'm talking about PJ, but I could tell you exactly the same about the PSP (PSC) where you don't even pay the subsidies during the holiday period, despite the court's decision. Therefore, Prime Minister, summarizing and concluding, what you have, in terms of sovereignty functions—that you should know so well, even for your political past—is not compliance, is an enormous erosion, what you have is a huge failure of this government. How do you explain this to Parliament and to the country? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u136	Now it's PCP time. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of the legislative process, we appreciate the important advances for which the CFP has made a decisive contribution, such as the extraordinary increase of pensions and reforms for three consecutive years; the replacement of the payment of the whole Christmas allowance; the increase and expansion of the family allowance and prenatal allowance; the creation of the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed and the elimination of the 10% cut-off in unemployment benefit; access to early retirement for workers of stone prairies and mining; measures to enhance long-term careers; the improvement of the conditions of access to social benefits for inclusion; support for informal caregivers and cared for people. It could and should have gone further in responding to social problems, not the PS government's refusal of proposals submitted by the CFP. The CFP will continue to beat itself for them, because they are fair and necessary, and we ask what measures the Government will take to continue the path of increasing pensions and reforms and family allowance, with a view to their universality; in order to eliminate the sustainability factor, restore the age of reform over the age of 65 and recognize the right to reform without penalties for those who are 40 years of discount; in order to guarantee young families the safety and security of free daycare for all children up to the age of three, implementing transitional solutions up to the implementation of a public daycare system that guarantees full coverage of the country. Which way does the Government want to follow to effectively accomplish what is being put here? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u138	It is again the time of the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u139	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Talking about the state of the nation is also talking about autonomy and making a balance sheet of your government's relationship with the autonomous regions. Mr. Prime Minister, in his relationship with Madeira, the area of transport has suffered most from the inaction of the Socialist Government and it was necessary to have elections at the door for the PS to change its position on the revision of the mobility allowance. For three years the legitimate demands of the people of Madeira have been postponed. Mr Prime Minister was quick to criticise TAP's wage policy, but on TAP practices in the links between Madeira and the continent and not a syllable! Modern prices, says the TAP Executive President. Mr Prime Minister, do you agree that €500 and €600 are modern for a link that guarantees territorial continuity, in a company that — it is important to remember — is it a majority of public capital? Oh, my God! It is the Autonomous Region of Madeira that alone bears the full costs of the operation which guarantees the maritime connection between Madeira and the continent, while your Government, Prime Minister, is protecting support. And the air cargo line, so important for the agricultural sector, is also supported only by Madeira's regional budget, unlike the support of the central State given to the same line for the Azores. Mr. Prime Minister, the need for a new hospital infrastructure in Madeira is recognized by all. But, after four years, we have arrived today and your Government continues to postpone the promise of 50 % funding from the new wooden hospital. Are you shaking your head, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u140	Of course, it's in the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u141	So I ask you to leave underground and say, today, exactly what is the amount and what is the timing of this promise of your government. Mr. Prime Minister, before being Prime Minister, in March 2015, said publicly that it did not make sense that the Republic did not reduce the interest rates of the loan to Madeira, considering the most favourable rates of the Republic. In the meantime, there were elections, you become Prime Minister, you have forgotten these statements and today you can talk to Mr Finance Minister — and you continue to profit immorally at the cost of this loan. And it is 60 million that the state profites more from Madeira. Mr. Prime Minister, these are some of the long-listed examples of the socialist registration against Madeira in the last four years of its governance. Madeira cannot be treated as a mere pinnacle on the pink map that Mr. Prime Minister ambitious, making the population hostage to an electoral whim of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u143	Madeira deserves decent and impartial institutional treatment. Wood is a land of free people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u144	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u145	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am glad that this legislation is coming to an end at the right time. It would have been easy to precipitate a crisis, in the hope of better electoral circumstances. This temptation would have prevented this Parliament and this parliamentary majority from fulfilling their responsibility in the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, at the end of the moderate rates, in the Housing Bases Act, in the Health Bases Act, in so many matters that we still had to decide on. It has already been said here that this is a time for balance sheets and, on that, I would like to share a stranger with Mr. Prime Minister. I heard you here making a positive assessment of the meeting of positions during this legislature. The Left Block also makes this positive balance, although with some limitations — it is natural that so. The Minister of Finance, in turn, has also said, in a balance sheet, that he fulfilled the budgetary trajectory that was outlined in the Socialist Party's electoral programme and defended, and has strongly defended the macroeconomic scenario numbers, in particular the primary balance, i.e. interest-free balance. And strangeness is this: how was the primary balance of the PS electoral programme met, and even exceeded, with measures that were not the measures of the PS programme but which were measures, as Mr. Prime Minister well recognized, of the CFP, of the Greens? There was no freezing of pensions, there was an increase in pensions; there was a return of wages and the return of the overtax was faster; the fall of the IRS was deeper; there was a new regime of early reforms and a new regime of bonding precariouss; there was a fall in VAT in culture; there was a fall in propines. Finally, so many measures — this balance sheet was made — so many measures that were not in the PS electoral programme. Therefore, the primary surplus was exceeded by very different income recovery measures which go far beyond what had been foreseen by the PS, and in these accounts that the PS did not foresee, still accommodated EUR 7 billion injected into the bank by the government. On this point, I would like to say one thing: the government has supported the Left Block in the recapitalization of the Box, in good and bad, but it does not have the Left Block to assume the liability of disastrous decisions on the bank that approved with the right and which did not approve with the Left Block, nor with the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u147	But let's go back to the PS accounts. It's easy to see that something isn't right. What happened in the economy these four years challenges PS forecasts in 2015. And what happened in these four years was that the measures that the PS also considered impossible, were possible and improved the economy, improved employment, improved social contributions, improved social security, improved public accounts. And if this is the balance sheet we make, it is now important to ask, modestly, whether it would have been possible to go further, if the government could go further in investment, to invest in the country and in public services. The macroeconomic scenario of the Socialist Party says yes. Assuming that the Socialist Party still defends the figures in its scenario, assuming that the Socialist Party today considers that the targets of the deficit it placed, at the time, in its macroeconomic scenario were responsible, then it would have been possible to invest more 4000 million and to meet the primary balance then planned and would have been possible to invest more 8000 million and, nevertheless, to meet the balance then planned. So, Prime Minister, the question is simple: why didn't you do it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u148	To put questions, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard your very commendable speech to your Government — I would say even quite self-deserving, in what indeed has been a characteristic of yours — basically boasting of your success and the fulfilment of your commitments. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, where exactly did you register as a goal, as a compromise and as an election promise that Portugal would have the greatest tax burden ever, during your government?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u150	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u151	Because what you have actually had and, indeed, has is an unforgettable number, but that, I confess, is that I have not seen as a goal in your macroeconomic scenario. And since Mr. Prime Minister, speaking of this matter, gave examples of real taxes that had even come down, yes, I would like to ask you whether it is also true that a Portuguese, today in 2019, spends 18 euros more to fill the deposit of its gas oil car and if these Portuguese do not work and also deserve no less taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u152	There is the concern about the 'water below' environment! The concern of the CDS with the environment ends in gas oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u153	Now—because Mr. Prime Minister also says that the increase in the tax burden is due to growth—I would like to draw your attention to the following: from 2017 to 2018, GDP, nominally, has increased EUR 6992 million. Do you want to know how much has increased the state's revenue? In EUR 4330 million! More than 60 % of this growth was confiscated by the State. The Portuguese, with their government, were the minority partners of economic growth. What I ask you is whether it would not have been possible either to meet its own economic growth goals, which were above those we had, if it had not gone to seek « the lion part » of economic growth for the government and the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u154	We're back to the PCP now. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, in the balance sheet to be taken in the area of health, it is important to stress that more users with a family doctor have reduced the moderate rates, which have improved the allocation of non-emergency transport, which have been delayed by 35 hours and the payment of quality hours and that careers have been frozen. These are inseparable advances in the struggle of professionals, users and decisive intervention of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u157	However, there are problems that remain because the PS government rejected proposals from the PCP that could have resolved them: proposals for hiring health professionals and providing incentives for their establishment in deprived areas; appreciation and improvement of the working conditions of health professionals, combating emigration and exit to private groups; proposals for changes to the medical boarding system and carrying out the extraordinary competition for access to specialized training, enabling doctors to train in missed specialities, or to increase investment in the construction and rehabilitation of buildings and the acquisition and renewal of clinical equipment. Mr. Prime Minister, being a balance sheet time, it is still time to implement all these measures, and the other measures included in the State Budget, so that the National Health Service will give more prompt and adequate responses to users, to motivate and fix professionals and to avoid the transfer of public money to private groups that profit from the disease business. The question I leave you with, Mr Prime Minister, is: will the government still implement these measures or will it refuse to implement them? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u158	You now have the floor to ask questions, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has already invoked the devil several times here today. Let me remind you, Prime Minister, that the devil has already walked between us for three years. He came by the hand of his co-religionary José Socrates and of many who accompany him at this government bench, when on May 17, 2011 they signed the Memorandum of Troika. He walked between us for three years and, let me tell him, that the devil was called a troika and the troika was indeed a great devil.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u161	Mr Prime Minister, today we are facing a balance sheet debate. After four years of governance it is no longer a matter of announcing but of assessing and, with regard to public investment and infrastructure, the balance sheet is clearly negative. Your government will remain for history as the government that has invested the least in recent decades. He always promised a lot but executed a little. It's an enemy government of public investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u162	Not in the announcements, not in the budget proposals, but in the execution of the budget and in the implementation of the works. He promised but he didn't! It is an enemy government of public investment but imaginative in communication approaches: there is no role in subway tickets for days and days? It's easy to answer: it was random! Isn't there enough boats to transport people on the Roof? It's easy to answer: you take out the banks and so more people already fit! Are the train schedules deleted, the engines are running, the delays are a constant and more trains are needed? It is easy to answer: the proposal of the CP administration of 2016 is rejected to open a contest to buy trains, to get into the drawer, to wait for the eves of the 2019 elections and to open the contest. The trains will arrive there for 2023. Did the roads slide, the holes proliferate from north to south on the roads of our country? It is easy to answer: the infrastructure maintenance teams of Portugal are extinguished! This has been the case for four years, Mr Prime Minister: a lot of raisins and little grapes. Ads behind advertisements, deceiving the people who have seen the works are postponed over these four years. And you were alone in this process, Prime Minister? Don't! He always relied on the happy support of the CFP, the BE and the Greens, who have now, on the eve of elections, found that the public investment of this government was a huge flop to the detriment of the people. Finally, an enemy government of public investment, which specializes in pushing problems forward. Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese deserved much more and better! After all, Mr. Prime Minister, why did you promise so many works and you didn't? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u163	You have the floor to ask questions, still on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, will certainly remember the promises you made at the beginning of your term of office, even using the image of the cow that you promised to fly. Four years back, the cows do not fly and are increasingly buried in the mud, particularly in health. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u165	If you heard the patients, the professionals would come to the same conclusion: the State failed in the National Health Service, but the Prime Minister failed in front of the country. The government promised to assign a family doctor to all Portuguese. As much as you try to deny, today there are almost 800,000 Portuguese without a family doctor assigned. He promised and he didn't! Mr. Prime Minister promised to inaugurate in 2019 the new pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João. In 2019, not a brick! He promised and he didn't! Mr. Prime Minister promised not to hire more doctors, which he criticized in the previous government. What did Mr. Prime Minister do? You've hired even more professional doctors! He promised and he didn't! Mr. Prime Minister promised to improve access to the National Health Service. in these four years, waiting times have always been worsening, whether for consultations, surgeries or exams, including for cancer patients. In fact, the Minister of Health acknowledged that about 30 % of patients who died while on the waiting list had already been exceeded the maximum guaranteed response times. Mr. Prime Minister has failed the Portuguese! Mr. Prime Minister still promised to return social peace to workers, but we have more and more strikes in the sector. Even yesterday, medical unions ended up cutting off relations with the Minister of Health and demanding a meeting with the Prime Minister. This is the opportunity to respond, Prime Minister. Tell us: will you meet with the doctors? What do you have to offer them? Having completed his mandate, curiously, the failure of Mr. Prime Minister's governance is his greatest ally. Repeat the promises made in the past—made but never fulfilled—in the hope of deceiving the Portuguese once again. I don't know if it will succeed in this political tactic, Prime Minister, but there is one thing I know: Mr. Prime Minister failed as a government leader because he failed to protect the health of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u166	To make the last request for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister, also on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr. Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u167	Mr President, Prime Minister, today in the debate of the State of the Nation, we cannot fail to address a very serious issue: the delay in social security in the payment of pensions. The PSD, already several times and at various times, drew attention to the difficulties people live with due to the delay in paying these pensions. The Ombudsman has also been here in Parliament last week, and has told us again, firstly, that the cases of people who are desperate for these delays in paying pensions continue to occur.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u168	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u169	...and secondly, that pensioners' complaints do not stop increasing. So I ask you, Prime Minister : do you think it is acceptable for a person who reaches the retirement age, asks for retirement and has to wait a year, a year and a half and up to two years to receive the pension you are entitled to? Mr Prime Minister, do you think it would be acceptable for a person to ask for help from relatives and friends because the State does not pay him what he is entitled to in time and time? Mr Prime Minister, you said here in Parliament that this situation would be resolved until June—and you were not, Mr Prime Minister! So I ask you: how does the Prime Minister feel about once again failing the truth to the Portuguese people? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you if you think this is the behaviour of a decent government that you are concerned about the most disadvantaged. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u170	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am going to have to be telegraphy, I will not answer the repeated questions to which I have already answered, nor those to which you have answered. Ministers of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and Finance, who will later use the word, will be able to respond. As regards the implementation of the Community funds, Mr Costa Silva, we are keeping ourselves first of all among all European countries in respect of payments. And I can tell you that with regard to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), we have moved from fifth to fourth, and we are improving.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u172	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u173	In addition, public investment has been increasing, financed both by the Community funds and by the State budget and increased by 45 %. Mr Telmo Correia, you have known me for many years and you have been here for more years. And you know very well that, in matters of corruption, it is enough for me to say the following: the legislation that exists, all the legal instruments that exist to combat corruption are those that were approved when I was Minister of Justice and now there are almost 19 years and no one has done more than what was done at that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to Tancos, I must also say to you, Mr President, that the only true mystery that is to be solved is the following: why are some people in Portuguese society, like you, more concerned about how weapons were recovered than exactly how the theft happened? That, to me, is really the great mystery that is about to be clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u174	That is your political answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u175	Mrs Diana Ferreira has raised a very important issue with regard to day care. at this time, we are negotiating, at the centre of social dialogue, Programme 3 in Line, which provides for the dynamisation of what is necessary in matters of day care. Mrs Rubina Berardo, let me be honest and say the following: there is only one conflict with the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the simple reason that the Regional Government wants to artificially create a conflict with the Government of the Republic for election purposes. That's the only reason. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u176	So explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u177	Travel prices are scandalous because the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira does not accept the proposal we made to amend the mobility allowance, which does not really finance the Madeirans but, indeed, the airlines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u178	With regard to the hospital, we expect the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to hire us to carry out this hospital in order to make the payment for the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as interest is concerned, I must tell you that, as you know, the State budget has reviewed interest and, therefore, only in the payment it will have to make in July, Madeira will already save EUR 8 million of interest in relation to what it would have to pay. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, we have already, since the last time the honourable Member has presented figures in this regard, plus 76 general and family medicine doctors, we have an open competition for more than 305 general and family medicine doctors, so if all the vacancies are filled, we will reach the end of the legislature with 97% of the Portuguese with the assigned family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u179	Yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u180	As far as waiting time is concerned, it should never be forgotten that waiting times are greater today, which is unacceptable, but it also results from a decision by this government to reduce the allowable waiting time for a set of medical acts. Finally, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is true that we have gone further than we had planned in the Government Programme, we have gone further than we had agreed with our parliamentary partners. And we went further because we managed well and so we had more resources to go further. And that's what we have to keep doing: managing well and not doing shit, to keep having more resources and going even further. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u181	We now turn to interventions, the first of which is the Social Democratic Party. To that end, Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After four years of socialist governance, sustained in a left-wing parliamentary majority, what country do we have? I am not referring to the virtual country, the country for photography, the country which Mr. Prime Minister insists on painting pink and which governs in permanent mode of reality show. I mean the country of families and businesses, who work for a better life, who fulfill their obligations and pay their taxes. I refer to the country that exists beyond the large metropolitan centers, the country of the interior, the peripheries, the most disadvantaged areas. I mean the real country! The country that, in these four years, has been out of the government and its PowerPoint holofotes, out of its concerns, Prime Minister. What we have heard from you here today and always have been consistent attempts to condemn reality to the fantastic narrative that your government has done everything within its power and that it has done everything well, that everything works wonderfully and that, if it does not work, it is because of the citizens themselves, as even a ruler has had to state. It happens that this charming narrative is denied by reality every day. It is denied whenever any citizen goes to a public hospital and has to wait months or years for a consultation, examination or surgery. And when it is finally taken care of, it often has to be in a maca in a hospital corridor, without the minimum conditions, security and dignity. Today, there are 780 000 users of the National Health Service without a family doctor, when the government promised to give a family doctor to all Portuguese people. Over the past four years, the total debt of the National Health Service has always been higher than 2015, as well as overdue debt and late payments to suppliers. Over the past four years, investment in the National Health Service has always been less than 2015 : in 2016, it was less than 29 % ; in 2017, it was less than 32 % ; and in 2018, it was less than 19 %. Over the past four years, the government has not built a single hospital, although it has promised many : in Eastern Lisbon, in Évora, in Sixtal, Sintra and Madeira, in addition to the new motherhood of Coimbra. But not one has seen the light of day until today. The government has failed all over the line.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u183	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u184	Until May, the absences by strike in the National Health Service amounted to 72,000 days of lost work. In the same period of 2015, accounting was in just over 38 000 days. But for the government, it's okay. In public transport, chaos is the new norm. There is constant suppression of careers and schedules. Trains, subways and boats are completely crowded. Passengers are being transported under increasingly unacceptable conditions. Delays and stops are the norm, caused by strikes and constant protests. But for the government, it's okay. In social security, there is an unsustainable situation. The services fail to support the most fragile. The State does not assume its responsibilities vis-à-vis those who have been discounted for a lifetime. There are delays in the allocation of old age, widower or survival pensions, which have taken more than one year. contrary to what the guardianship says, delays have not stopped increasing, especially those that affect people in particularly vulnerable situations. 'Vexatory' was like the Ombudsman, who examined this situation in detail, qualified this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u185	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u186	But for the government, it's okay. In education, the disinvestment cartilage of this government is repeated. Values in basic and secondary education are close to zero. It was a reduction of almost 40 % compared to 2015. And the captivating left about 70% of the promised investment in the drawer. But for the government, it's okay. But also in justice, security and civil protection, the landscape of rupture, dissatisfaction and instability is similar: cuts in fundamental areas such as education, research and science; delays in the renewal of essential documents; a demanding lack of resources in the security forces; problems repeated in prisons; insufficiency of personnel in the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) and lack of means in the Judicial Police; and cars of the PSP and the GNR ( Guarda Nacional Republicana ) lying down for lack of maintenance. But for the government, it's okay! The fight against inequalities became part of the government's official discourses, but never came out of the paper. The left rejected the PSD proposals for low-density territories, which would help reverse the abandonment and desertification of the interior regions. The government forgets the interior, because the interior does not give votes that arrive to win elections. [[PSD applause.]] After the tragic fires of June and October 2017, it would be hoped that this government would awaken some sensitivity to the problems of the interior. But over the past two years, they are the victims of the fires that complain they have been forgotten by the central power. It was not the pressure and political scrutiny of the PSD and the President of the Republic, the forgetfulness would be even greater. The state has failed the victims of these tragedies before, during and after. But for the government, it's okay! The theft of the weapons of Tanks and the episodes that have taken place are another indelible stain of this government. There is no memory of such concern regarding the essential functions of sovereignty involving the security of the State. With its unmanned action, and as of today not fully clarified, the Government has allowed, at its highest level, a case of gravity to turn into a political, anecdotic and irreparable farce, with obvious damage to the prestige and credibility of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u187	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u188	Today, when the Prime Minister says that he maintains confidence in the former Minister of Defence, no one knows for sure whether that trust refers to what Azeredo Lopes said or what Azeredo Lopes will not say. But for the government, it's okay! [[PSD applause.]] The feeling of impunity of this government was notoriously exposed in the so-called 'familygate', a tremendous web of cross-designation of socialist relatives and friends, which makes this government, in addition to a kind of large family hostel, a case of world study for the worst reasons. To this point which led to the embarrassment of Mr President of the Republic himself at a meeting of the Council of Europe which took place about a month ago. But for the government, it's okay! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] This is, in short, the portrait of the country we have today. This is the black book of the socialist governance of Dr. António Costa. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] This is the reverse of the financial « miracle » of Dr. Mário Centeno, achieved at the expense of the greatest tax burden ever on families and businesses, which increased by 1 % of gross domestic product in 2015. It was achieved at the expense of the biggest fall in public investment and the highest level of captivating than there is memory. The government promised an increase in investment by 11 % but did not exceed 1, 5 % in 2016, 1, 8 % in 2017 and 2 % in 2018. Now 2 % is less than the investment made in 2015 and is the lowest value obtained among the 28 countries of the European Union. Let's remember what Dr. António Costa said in 2015 before being Prime Minister: "This pilgrimage idea that it is possible to relaunch an economy without a significant increase in public investment is an absolutely failed idea. And we're still the last guinea piglets of this failed policy. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is therefore clear — and said by the Prime Minister himself — that this government did not relaunch the economy because it did not want to! [[PSD applause.]] And, therefore, economic growth has fallen far short of what was expected, possible and necessary. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] A weak and anemic growth, which could not benefit from the good moment present nor prepared the country for the future. But it was also at the expense of a public debt that did not stop growing and the unstoppable degradation of public services. At the end of the Legislature, we can say that none of the great objectives proclaimed was achieved and even the promised recovery of income was swallowed by taxes, taxes and taxes. To give to some, the government has pulled out all of them. To meet the demands of some, the government has failed all. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Government has already outlined its strategy in three steps of magic. First, he humbly acknowledges that there are serious problems in the lives of the Portuguese; second, from night to day, he takes out a handful of miraculous solutions and announces them with all the pump and circumstances; third, he refers to the application of these solutions and the resolution of all the problems for the coming years or decades. However, four years have passed from a particularly favourable situation that the socialist government has simply wasted. In 2018, 20 countries have grown more than we do and this year the scenario will not have to be very different. contrary to what the Government says, Portugal is diverging in relation to the European average, moving more and more rapidly towards the flow of Europe. If it's like this in a good setting, what will it be like in a less good setting? Oh, my God! It was due to lack of courage, lack of capacity or lack of political will, that there is certainly not a reform worthy of this name carried out in this legislature. There are, when much, simulations of reforms or failed acts of reforms. We see the inability of the Government and the Socialist Party to adopt a new Health Bases Act; we see the practical insufficiency of forest reform; we note the total inability to debate a serious reform of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u189	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u190	The socialist government is without a national plan, without a collective hope, without a truly national dynamic, and is well aware of why. We have been governed for four years by an impulse of survival to avoid a shipwreck of the political forces that constitute it and therefore we have always gone to the taste of the political wind, of the small conjuncture, of the punctual agreements. [[Protests by BE Mariana Mortágua and PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Finally, we went to the taste of everything, but we never walked on the path of a substantial policy, thought and executed in the sense of improving the country, as such, and of the concrete life of people. For the survival of management, everything was bearable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u191	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u192	Now they speak of the creature as if they had not been responsible for its creation. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is no good to point out the mistakes if we do not point out alternative paths. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] In a short time, the Portuguese will be called on to decide about their future. It is imperative to reduce the tax burden, relieve Portuguese families and companies of the excessive weight of taxes they pay today, and this is an imperative commitment of the PSD. It is not serious to say that income is returned to some of the Portuguese when their whole pays much more taxes and fees than it has ever paid. We therefore argue that it is possible and desirable to reduce the rate of IRS, as well as to seriously reduce the rate of essential goods such as electricity and gas VAT. Companies need to be seen again as allies of development and progress and not as enemies to be slaughtered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u193	They voted against it! What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u194	The drift from the recent years of the Socialist Party has prevented it from continuing to a desirable and gradual reduction of the IRC, which now the PSD wants to resume. [[Protests by BE Mariana Mortágua and PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is urgent to recover public services from the dire state in which this government has left them, making them function effectively and in good quality and giving public servants the conditions and resources necessary to carry out their duties. on the other hand, we want taxpayers to feel that each euro of the taxes they pay is used well and applied well, with rigour, sense of responsibility and solidarity, reinforcing territorial and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u196	With regard to social cohesion, we cannot continue to live in a country where 2 million and 200,000 people live at risk of poverty and social exclusion. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD will, as it has always been, be at the forefront of defending environmental sustainability and quality of life. The environment will continue to be a priority for all of us. We will continue to be struck by greater transparency in public life and by ethics in political action, because the fight against corruption is, for us, a national design. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The PSD has all Portuguese to the exact extent that all Portuguese have already counted on the PSD to help recover the country at one of the blackest stages of democratic history. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We have started this legislature as the Portuguese party most voted by the Portuguese and that is how we hope to start the new legislation that is approaching.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u197	They had 700,000 votes less!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u198	this time, with sufficient strength to fully assume an alternative project for Portugal and for Portuguese. In conclusion, and paraphrasing Antonio Barreto in his speech as Commissioner for Commemorations of 10 June 2010, I will say « The PSD will not treat the Portuguese as inexhaustible contributors or retired voters but as free citizens ». [[On your feet, applause from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u199	You have already won the vote of João Miguel Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u200	Mr Fernando Negrão, for a request for clarification Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Negrão, I believe that the PSD believes that the policy benefits from the suspension and, indeed, in this matter, this government has proved to be very bad. See: the accounts are right and there are no surprises; we do not have that terror of when an intervention from a government member is announced to think "what are they going to cut now? Oh, my God! The measures taken are those in the Programme and, indeed, there is no suspense. [[Congrats from PS deputy Marisabel Moutela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u202	What am I sorry you're gonna find out now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u203	So the PSD has positively decided to bring a suspension to this Parliament in recent months.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u205	We never know PSD is going to show up! [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Emília Cerqueira.]] If it is the PSD who criticizes the increase in current state spending or if it is the PSD who criticizes the supposed cuts in current state spending.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u207	Today, this second PSD has appeared.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u208	The honourable Member is capable of doing better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u209	A PSD that's inventing that captivations are equal to cuts. I've stopped trying to explain why they're not. And I give up because, in fact, it is not possible for anyone to understand something when the role he plays depends on not understanding something. And the role of the honourable Member depends on not understanding this! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] However, I have to confront the other PSD! Is it because the PSD believes that public services desperately need more expenditure, that PSD has recently presented a macroeconomic summary in which the growth of intermediate state consumption over the next legislation is, in addition, 2 %, rather than 14 % in the Stability and Growth Programme? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD Deputies Cristóvão Norte and Emília Cerqueira.]] In addition, taking into account that 60 % of the intermediate consumption of the central administration are in health,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ...what do you think that cut in intermediate consumption growth will do to health?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u210	It's gonna hurt! It can only be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u211	How do you defend here that there is a shortage of expenditure and at the same time defend a restriction on increased expenditure? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In view of the fact that in this Parliament the greatest progress has always been made, in terms of the euro area, in terms of reducing the risk of poverty, nor will I comment that the honourable Member is still in favour of calling on that same indicator. We are very proud of the progress made in this indicator, we know that there is a lot to do, but it is to do as we have done and not as we did before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u212	Is everything okay? Oh, my God! What are 2, 2 million Portuguese at risk of poverty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u213	Mr President, to conclude, there is one thing that the PSD speaks repeatedly, saying that the government governs for customers. Now, I have an idea that the government has ruled, for example, for those workers who have jobs today, not being unemployed anymore,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...for those workers who earn a minimum wage that is almost 20 % higher than they earn four years ago, for pensioners, who, instead of cutting pensions, have grown pensions... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and for those Portuguese who had IRS reductions due to the reduction of the steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u215	Mr. Member, if the Government treats all these Portuguese as customers, indeed there are not many people left to vote on the PSD. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u216	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor. [[Tell me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u217	Answer as you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u218	The expectation, the suspension on the PS bench is great, Mr. President. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u219	I don't understand why, I confess! Mr President, I am now to know what the "thing" Mr. Rocha Andrade wanted to mention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u220	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u221	... but, finally, in the midst of his intervention said other things and the most serious was when he devalued the existence in Portugal of 2, 2 million people in poverty and social exclusion. It is unacceptable for you to devalue a number with this dimension! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Even if it did not have this dimension, no one in this situation can be devalued and you have devalued 2 million and 200 000 people living in a situation of social exclusion! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u222	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u223	That's what you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u224	Social insensitivity!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u225	With regard to the suspension, I give it cheap, Mr Deputies, but with regard to the government supported by your party and the other extreme-left parties, I will say the following... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] They're extremely left-handed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u226	They're extremely left-handed, they are! Continuation of the protests of BE and PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u227	It's left and left-left...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u228	The PCP is moderate left now. Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u229	I will say this: in fact, this government does not create us to be suspended or ever created by us, because we know how this government governs. This government is constantly and gradually increasing the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u230	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u231	Always! This government rules by cutting, always and gradually, public investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u232	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u233	All of this, from a certain point of view, has become expected, with the consequences we know in the area of health, transport, social security. That's how this government rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u234	Explain how you want to cut more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u235	It is expectable, and we know, that if it becomes government again, it will rule in this way, always, without suspension!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u236	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u237	But that will not happen, because the Portuguese are careful, the Portuguese do not sleep, the Portuguese know that you have ruled incompetently and know that you have to look for an alternative! [[PS protests.]] And this alternative the Portuguese will find it in the PSD. You are enjoying overconfidence, you see it through your faces that there is too much confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u238	This has been the case since 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u239	I appeal that you be calmer, because you may have a surprise that will be pleasant for the Portuguese, but for the Socialist Party and for the extreme-left parties it will be clearly unpleasant. The PSD will win the elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u240	There is a follow-up by the Socialist Party. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister : The ambition of this government by Portugal and the Portuguese is well known, which Mr. Prime Minister has always put first, because he has a development project for his country, his concern for the level of well-being of people, against poverty, precariousness, abuse and all that brings into question citizenship rights and a dignified life. It was these principles and these convictions that led you to find a governmental solution in 2015 against what was established to save the country, returning hope to the Portuguese and the dignity they wanted to rob them of. It has been found and, with it, it has been possible to return incomes, restore rights, restore a democratic tranquillity which has brought the country forward, all with certain accounts and respecting our commitments, moving ahead with what is sometimes required of us, in a view responsible for the future. They say Mr. Prime Minister has an irritant optimism. Sure! It took some amount of optimism, but, above all, of very strong convictions for, in the state in which he received the country, to work in a difficult fight, with demotivated and discredited citizens, with poor institutions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... with a humiliating public administration, with the precariousness of working relationships, with galloping unemployment, with an unignoble poverty of the most vulnerable populations, the elderly and the young, and with migratory flows in the 1960s. Optimism, alone? Don't! Strength and determination to take Portugal forward. Today, fortunately, we have a very different reality: a level of unemployment which is the lowest in this century; a more comprehensive, effective and inclusive social protection; wages are rising, with the minimum national wage increased by 20 %; a fight against persistent precariousness, with a successful and long-lasting PREVPAP; a true family policy, in which all children enjoy equal and greater support; strengthened and sustainable social security and the indispensable return to social partners from a climate free of blockades for the healthy development of collective bargaining. No matter how much one wants to fable and who prays to some, all this was possible only because the measures are of the Socialist Party, the policies are of the Socialist Party and the Government is that of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u242	There are no requests for clarification to Mrs Wanda Guimarães, we continue with the intervention of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u243	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members: In 2015 a million voters imposed a political change. One million people refused to choose between the maximum austerity promised by PSD and CDS or the shameful austerity of the PS Election Program and voted to the left. This force, these people who did not resign, built the unpublished political solution we had in this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u245	The 2015 elections marked the end of the useful vote; no one is ever forced to choose the lesser evil in a addicted game in which there is always alternateness without an alternative. What matters today is the choice of the programme for the country and the requirement for the vote is strength in politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u247	Cavaco Silva didn't want to believe it. At the end of his term of office, without the power to dissolve Parliament, he was even obliged to accept the "unpublished solution in the history of our democracy". He never resonated with the idea that all votes count. We remember well that you did everything to prevent this solution. He argued that a left-wing party could never have an active role in defining government and policies, and he lost. He lost Cavaco, won democracy and the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The European Commission, you know, did not like it either. I would see the economic disqualification, they would say, and when it did not come, they tried to raise it by opening a process of unprecedented sanctions against Portugal. Between the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016, it was a frenzym. The right, and even part of the PS, were accountable at the time when the next President of the Republic could dissolve Parliament. Then there is the disqualification that would come with European sanctions. Finally, when it was clear that the new President of the Republic would not dissolve Parliament and the European sanctions were plummeted, Steps Coelho assured that the devil would come in person, there by September 2016. But the devil didn't make it. To raise wages and defuse pensions, as we have always said, but so many denied, only did the economy good and allowed it to regain confidence. In the country, it was felt the distancing of budgets that recovered living conditions. Hope, the expectation of concrete advances, brought back the demanding struggle. There is no longer only complaint and struggle against cutting and destruction; now there is the struggle to recover and build. An excellent sign of democratic health and a message to hear. The policy of fear and threat has been defeated. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The successive announcements of cuts, threats to 'grey plague' and insults to 'foldings' which do not come out of the 'comfort zone' resulted in income recovery measures, advances in respect of contributing careers, job creation. A Parliament in which the pace of recovery is discussed and not the size of the cuts has brought more than confidence. I also brought transparency to democratic life, because today are clearer the various country projects that confront, as they form, or not, the majority around each measure, which alternatives are on the table and how each political force behaves. We know that the majority who voted for the increase in pensions and the IRS was not the same as the one who voted for Banif's delivery to Santander or who protected the excessive revenues of the electrics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u249	It was no choice of lock; you're from the government or the opposition. It was the political choice which, in both the confrontation and the compromise, drew a majority. Each party now responds to what it has done in this journey. Democracy is the experience of confrontation and free choice. This legislation, with all its limitations and difficulties, has demonstrated that. And that is why, in the balance sheet of what has been done and in the proposal of what is to be done, I would expect a debate more focused on practical alternatives and less, as I have heard, on how unequivocal an absolute majority should or should not be. I would expect more clarity on the agenda for public services and for the climate and less complaints about the uncomfortable need to make, with others, the ways of convergence that improve people's lives. After all, has anyone asked for an absolute majority? Oh, my God! The main leaders of the Socialist Party have been heard, it is true. Ana Catarina Mendes, PS Under-Secretary-General, requested an absolutely unequivocal majority. Carlos César, Parliamentary leader and PS President, had explained that the PS wants "a great vote" to govern "without blockades". What blockades, after all, bother the PS? Those who prevented the freezing of pensions? It is not by chance that no pensioner was heard from those to whom the PS promised, before the elections, to freeze pensions, to demand an absolute majority. No one asked. As we have not heard the PreVPAP precariouss or teachers linked to concluding that, now, what they need is an absolute majority. This choir did not join any public administration workers who recovered their salary. No such request was heard from independent workers who have a new contribution scheme, as was not heard from informal caregivers. After all, those who sigh by the absolute majority are others. The Executive President of the Health Light, Isabel Vaz, who was known to defend that the health business only loses in profitability for armament, or an absolute majority. As he explained, it is necessary to avoid a government solution that challenges PPPs. The CEO ( chief executive officer) of the Altice, Alexandre Fonseca, who wanted to fire workers illegally and guarantee that the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) worked at 100 %, also an absolute majority. You are very concerned about the outcome of the elections. António Saraiva, the boss of the bosses, is more than an absolute majority. And Manuela Ferreira Leite even advised the right when she said: « The PSD must sell the soul to the devil to put the left on the street ». Whoever asks for an absolute majority is the one who celebrated when the government retreated, supported by the PSD, at the rate against speculation, in electric incomes or in the law of work. It is the one who fears a basic law of health, because he wants to continue to feed the private business with the public budget. They are those who wanted the reduction of the employer's contribution to social security or the facilitation of dismissal, provided for in the Electoral Program of the PS, but prevented by the left these four years. They are the bosses who did everything to stop the increase in the national minimum wage. It is the temporary workers who hate the new law to fight forced labour. They are those who do not forgive that workers are winning court proceedings thanks to new legislation on transmission of establishment or harassment. But for most people, this overwhelming majority of working people and lives are so hard, nothing counts less than an absolute majority. What counts is the continuation of the fight against austerity policies. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Portugal is still the precarious country, the country of low wages and poor pensions. Forty percent of the population depends on social benefits to combat poverty. Being disabled is still condemned to poverty and isolation. In a country that gave over EUR 20 billion to the bank in a decade, there is a lack of investment in health, education, science, culture and transport. We have an increasingly uninhabited and abandoned interior. The housing is at the mercy of real estate speculation. There's so much to do! We cannot return to the policy of the absolute majority who have lost us. The political responsibility is to seek answers to the problems of our time and the Left Block assumes this responsibility. We take stock of these four years and look at all that is missing, proposing viable solutions to continue to combat austerity, to combat inequalities and to guarantee an economy that leaves no one behind, that sets the conditions for energy conversion, responding to the climate emergency, defending those who live from their work and pension. We know that the lack of public investment is one of the biggest failures of the legislature and we propose to recover the level of 5% of GDP on public investment. We want to finance this effort through the management of public accounts at the service of those who live and work in Portugal, the tax on fortunes, tax reform, the end of unjustified tax benefits, the restructuring of debt and the recovery of public goods. We want to protect the rights of those who work, equality between men and women, respect for the independent life of people with disabilities, the end of all prejudice and all discrimination. We want justice that is also a condition of equality and that it is capable of combating corruption and economic crime. We propose to build the ways to do what is important: democratize the economy to live without fear, protect employment, create accessible housing, save the National Health Service. We were back in 2015 and the Block would do it all over again. What we've done is the best guide for everything we need to do! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u250	If there are no requests for clarification to Mrs Catarina Martins, we continue with the intervention of Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u251	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has defined a clear line of action for these four years and has kept it standing, with a firm and constructive opposition. Today, the date of the debate on the state of the nation, is also the time to take account of the work we have done. We have been firm in opposition—in many cases, with the almost exclusive burden of this opposition, which the two motions of censure illustrate—and we have always been determined in the construction. Since the first hour, we have brought about issues with concrete proposals, from birth to active aging, from protection to the status of the informal caregiver, from reconciliation of work/family to the rights of end-of-life patients. We have been leaders in the proposals for social security, proposing transparency and commitment to our reforms and still a complementary, optional pillar. We proposed a thorough review of the basic law of education, right at the beginning of the legislature, just as, in the middle of it, we put forward very relevant proposals to put justice to work, from the economic or criminal area to that of corruption. in these various themes, the other parties were not interested in participating constructively. Their priorities were other. We have led in relation to the regulation of lobbying, finally approved and essential to combat corruption, and banking supervision. We continue to believe that the exemption and independence of regulators, particularly the Governor of Banco de Portugal, will be strengthened by their appointment by the President of the Republic, a conviction strengthened by the work of the Commission of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box, where the CDS played a prominent role in the initiative and its work. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have also been a unique voice in relation to the financing of political parties. In the National Reform Plan, we have clearly drawn lines of action to make the country more competitive or to deal with climate change, particularly in the area of water, so relevant to agriculture as to the maintenance of people throughout the territory. We also proposed strengthening the authority and presence of the State in the areas of defence, security and criminal investigation, taking into account, moreover, the authority so degraded, in unacceptable cases such as that of Tancos — which, in good time, by the hand of the CDS, caused a commission of inquiry —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u253	... and the total absence of the State, so noted in the dramatic cases of fires. The generality of our proposals has been rejected, but this has never led us to lower our arms. We always understand that thinking and proposing when opposed has the meaning of creating a fertile seed for the future. Moreover, it is very interesting to note how our rejected proposals, such as those of support for birth, are now being proposed by other parties in their electoral programmes. It's a sign that it's worth insisting! [[CDS-PP applause.]] at the same time, we constantly called attention to the systematic lifting of the tax burden, the highest ever, in unexplained contrast to the degradation of public services—from health to the processing of reforms, from citizen card to passport—and a very low level of public investment, even below 2015, in hospitals, railways, infrastructures or in the activation of Community funds. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] We have highlighted the little attention given to public debt, which has continued to rise in nominal terms, and the weak growth of our country, when compared with the economies that are close to us and of the same size. Portugal grew, yes, but grew less than it could and should, lowered places in the competitiveness rankings, degraded its commercial balance and its comparative position in relation to GDP per capita. On several occasions, we repeated that we were faced with a missed opportunity for our country, the opportunity of the best external environment of ever, the opportunity to go further, to free ourselves from the small and small, to give more horizons to so many and so many people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u255	In all our political action, we put the person in the center. So we fought the closure of many schools and classes with association contracts, contrary to the choice of parents and students and demeaning the work of many professionals over the decades. Therefore, we have committed ourselves to defeating the institution of euthanasia in our country and we have motivated a Constitutional Court judgment, which is very enlightening in the field of motherhood of substitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u257	There were two topics in which we were particularly systematic in our action: health and taxes. In health, our presence was constant in Parliament and in the field, in the study work and in the presentation of proposals. We have denounced the government's wrong political choices, such as the non-prepared option for 35 hours or the ultra-centralisation of decisions in the hands of the Minister of Finance. We proposed funding for the system focused on the effective benefit for the patient, the autonomy of hospital administrations and the strengthening of integrated responsibility centres, among many other measures. We want health for everyone, where the patient is more important than the system, where the patient and the person are the center. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u258	We want to have quality health for all people, regardless of their portfolio, regardless of their address or age, and therefore, when the SNS does not respond, we want the possibility to access in good time a specialist consultation in a hospital, whether it is the social sector or the private sector, by choosing the patient.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u260	We do not accept that this choice exists only for those who have health insurance or ADSE (Instituto de Protection et Assistência na São Paulo ) or for those who can pay for their pocket.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u262	We also understand that we cannot have first and second Portuguese, and we propose that ADSE be progressively open to all people who want to join it. In taxes, we did not take into account the systematic denunciation of austerity in the constant increase in the tax burden, made through indirect taxes and multiple rates. In all the State budgets, without exception, we have won our opposition to the revision of very penalizing workers' schemes, as in the case of self-employed workers, as well as to the emergence of new additional taxes and new rates. Even outside the Budget, at more than a moment, we proposed the elimination of the excess tax on gas oil and gasoline, a real worker from an unprecedented tax sack to families and businesses. What is more, we believe that fiscal competitiveness must be a priority for Portugal if we want — and we want! — retain talent and anchor and attract investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u264	If our proposals had been approved, we would already have the IRC rate not by 21 %, but by 17 %, and there would be no increase in autonomous taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u265	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u266	We want an investment and development-friendly Tax Authority and not a tax that pursues people and businesses in a way that is unprecedented. Hunting at the bottom became a way of life for the Tax Authority, which every day inferns the lives of thousands of Portuguese and their companies,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u267	... at the same time as the State is often indebted to these same companies. That is why we are committed to strengthening taxpayers' guarantees and allowing companies to lower their taxes the values that the State owes them. We look at the world and we know that taxation is a powerful political tool. Therefore, we propose to use it also internally, creating a true status of tax benefit to the interior, moreover, presented and rejected several times in this Legislative Session.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u268	You have eliminated it - in 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u269	Those who live inside must pay half of the IRS rate and must discount the costs with tolls and transport. Companies that work there must pay only 10 % of IRC and have more benefits in all investment support. in a digital world where, in many cases, we can work at a distance, this tax benefit status has everything to be disruptive and to join other measures, such as that of smart working, which helps to reconcile work/ family, bringing new opportunities to the interior. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest wealth in our country is in people and in the territory. Our country's greatest opportunity is in people and in our territory. Having another trait and other ambition for Portugal is to release the creative and entrepreneurial strength of so many and so many people and to release us from a central state, heavy and slow, which weighs on the back of each Portuguese and does not allow us to change our lives. By making the state an ally, and not an obstacle, of that force, it is to allow people to dream and realize their dream with work and merit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u271	By creating conditions for people to have their desired children and to be able to support their elderly as they deserve. The dream of studying, working, progressing in life and still being able to help and leave something to their children comes true. Once again, we must and will act on several policies, but there is an incontrovertible one: tomorrow, we will present our proposals to download the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u272	You voted against the budget that dropped the IRS! What irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u273	But today I want to tell you, first of all, that if there are those who look suspiciously at countries like Ireland, who have an IRC rate of 12, 5 % on the CDS, we want to have the same rate of 12, 5 % on Ireland within the next six years. We want to see the country grow 4% and 5% a year, like Ireland, retaining and attracting talent, developing new areas of the economy, wanting to lead in the digital world. We therefore also propose a real revolution in vocational training, which is aimed at the needs of exporting companies and digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having a trace and ambition for Portugal is to help create opportunities in this same territory, which must be more coherent and more valued, from within the country to the sea, of the opportunities of the green economy, in particular due to mitigation and adaptation to climate change, to leadership in the blue economy, to a true alliance between the environment and the economy. Having traits and ambition for Portugal is becoming the best destination to study, to work, to invest or to live our reform. We don't just want to be the best tourist destination. In the CDS, we want to be the best destiny for our lives, the best destiny for us and the world. [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u274	To request clarification, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, Mrs Christian Assumption, the Portuguese do not forget, have no short memory, and know that all those who demand today in the opposition, such as the CDS-PP and the PSD, are the same as those who cut the expense, and cut much — in education and science, cut 17, 5 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u276	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u277	... between 2011 and 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u278	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u279	... they are the same ones who put workers in the requalification drawers, they are the same ones who put private workers against the public. Mrs Deputy, in politics and democracy we make choices, we say alternatives, we identify designs, and our choice was very clear: to make a more robust social state, fighting poverty, increasing all social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u280	But do you really think this is better? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u281	Our alternative was also very clear about investment. We invest in people, families, public services. Yes, we strengthened public services and increased human resources both in education and in health. And it is also true that we were concerned about reopening courts, increasing the expansion of the shops of the citizen in the interior, as well as the Citizen Space, and now we have 100 local centres to support immigrants, a country that has recently received the international recognition of the United Nations as a country of excellence in public services in the area of immigration. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Madam Member, our plan was to leave no one behind and you left so many people behind. They are more than 30,000 children at risk of poverty, more than 3 million people in poverty that we have been removing. Therefore, taking into account all that we have done in education, reducing school dropout, doubling school social action in higher education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u282	Duplicate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u283	... allowing students with disabilities equal to 60 % to join, requalify and wager in adult education, who so much despised, with 300 Qualifica centres, what I ask you, Mrs. Member, is what your choice would be, what your alternative would be, what your plan would be when four State budgets were dropped, which would restore rights, income and improve the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u284	In reply, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u285	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, I thank you for your questions. Mrs. Member, I wanted to remember that the work this party did was to remove the country from the socialist bankruptcy, which we inherited in 2011 with the Memorandum of Understanding, signed by its party,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] ... and where they were even more demanding goals and that, if they had been met, they would have brought even more austerity. Now, Mrs Susana Amador, your party rules with the best external environment ever; however, it has modest economic growth when compared with the economies to which we should compare.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u287	I like to compare myself with Ireland. Mrs Susana Amador, perhaps, prefers to compare with those who grow very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u288	With Greece!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u289	With Greece or with others that grow very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u290	Greece has just changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u291	Mrs Deputie, we, in the CDS, pride ourselves on, with the work of many ministries and many state secretaries, we have transformed Portugal into the best tourist destination and what we want is to transform Portugal, also in the best destination for our lives at all these times—from the moment we were born to the moment we studied, from the moment we started working until we tried to create a company and progress in life to leave something to our children.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u293	This is what we want to give: freedom and freedom of the creative force that exists in our country and which, unfortunately, during this time, had no opportunity to express itself. This is certainly done by looking at people, looking all over the territory — and I regret that the Socialist Party has plunged the Statute of the Tax Benefits into the interior —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u294	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u295	... downloading IRC to be competitive for when foreign investors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u296	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u297	... but also our investors, look and think that here is the best place to apply your money, to develop your lives, to invest here, to live here and to stay here until the end. That's what we want and that's why we're going to work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u298	It is not to have the slightest notion of reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u299	It is the time of the CFP intervention. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u300	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is now living in a different situation than it had been four years ago. Portugal has changed to better with the decisive contribution of the PCP. The major national problems are not solved because a real alternative policy is not being implemented, but this was a time of progress in improving the living conditions of the Portuguese people, a time to recover and gain rights and income. We have proved that all votes and Members are counting on decisions taken in the Assembly of the Republic, whether the decisions necessary for the formation of governments, whether decisions to return salaries and holidays, to reduce IRS, propines, energy costs and taxation of higher value real estate or to protect informal caregivers. We are proud of the crucial role that the CFP has played in raising pensions and family allowances, supporting the unemployed, free school textbooks, eliminating the special payment on account, reducing the price of the transit of transport, valuing the long-term contribution careers, early reform of the workers of the quarry and the mining farms and so many other measures that we could highlight here. We remember today that none of them would have been possible had it not been the resolute initiative of the CFP, which allowed a new phase of national political life to be opened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u301	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u302	The country has seen and the Portuguese know that we use the strength that they gave us to build solutions for many of their immediate problems. With the struggle of the workers and the people and the decisive action of the CFP, it was possible to overcome obstacles that seemed unavailable. Four years ago, few believed when we said that this was possible. On the night of October 4, few understood what we meant when we said that it was possible to remove the government's PSD and CDS and build another solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u304	Today, many understand when we say that the option that is put for the future is to defend the rights won and move forward towards a true alternative policy. Not going back, moving forward is necessary, and the PCP is here to continue building that path. [[PCP applause.]] We know that it was possible to go further, that there were problems to be solved and expectations to be fulfilled. It was not due to lack of action, initiative, proposal from the CFP, that this happened, but because the availability and contribution of the CFP were often denied by PS option. It was possible to go further in the general increase in wages, from then on with a more substantial increase in the national minimum wage. By rejecting the PCP proposals, the PS found another support base to delay the 600 € target and prevent it from going beyond this legislation. It was also possible to advance the protection of workers' rights with a view to the expiry of collective bargaining, the fight against precariousness and time deregulation, the replacement of redundancies and the payment of overtime work, the replacement of 25 working days or the repeal of individual adaptability mechanisms and the hour bank. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the main message. It was the goal of those who are in front of the Assembly of the Republic, some coming from far away, in the fight for more rights, in the fight for better wages, in the struggle for a more dignified life. [[PCP applause.]] By rejecting these PCP proposals and always relying on the support of the PSD and the CDS, PS insists on maintaining a degraded framework of labour rights, with labour legislation favourable to exploitation and precarious and without rights. It would have been possible to go further in strengthening public services, hiring workers in need and making the necessary investments in services that are essential to ensure the rights to health, education, social security or culture. Despite having had four approved State budgets, which allowed all these measures, the Government chose to set targets for the deficit in front of workers' and the people's rights. The options and convergences around the right-wing policy, which have prevented more determined advances in this legislature, are known from the past and continue to be the major obstacle to the realization of a true alternative policy. The limitations of the progress achieved in this legislature point to the need for a new correlation of forces more favourable to workers and the people, which is indispensable to achieve this alternative policy. The responsibilities and influence of the CFP in this new correlation of forces depend, of course, on the strength that the people give us. It is in the hands of each one to decide his future. The development of the country requires a sovereign development policy, which breaks with the right-wing policy, frees the country from the constraints and constraints of a suffocating public debt, from submission to the interests of monopoly capital and the taxation of the European Union and the euro. The development of the country requires an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that assumes wage valorization as a national emergency, with a faster progressive elevation of the wage level in Portugal, which involves the emptying of the country of qualified young people, of which it is an exhilarating example of the researchers and scientists who are leaving, leaving our poorest country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u305	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u306	This wage emergency requires the general increase in wages for all workers, with a significant increase in average wage, the increase in minimum wage for €850 and the progressive convergence with the euro area's average wage, accompanying the increases in reforms and pensions, to ensure that in the next legislation there is a minimum increase of €40. The country needs a policy of priority for public investment, with the aim of giving strong impetus to economic growth, ensuring a high level of response to the development of state infrastructure and equipment and qualifying all essential public services, mobilizing the budgetary surplus not for debt-freezing, but for investment, in particular with a health investment programme, whether by building hospitals in need, whether by hiring doctors, nurses and other professionals, and another program in the public transport sector, with the acquisition of new trains, ships and missing metro trains. The country needs an alternative policy of fiscal justice, based on the effective taxation of large capital, the reduction of taxes on workers, the progressive taxation of high value incomes and the reduction of lower incomes, the reduction of indirect taxes against direct taxes. The country needs a policy capable of ensuring a qualitative and quantitative leap in the development of productive forces, ensuring public control and the dynamisation of strategic enterprises. The country needs an alternative policy that expands social protection, with the strengthening of the public social security system, capable of ensuring universalization, the increase in family allowance and the strengthening of social benefits, as well as the response that allows free access for all children up to three years of age to day care or similar solutions. The country needs an alternative policy capable of ensuring a cohesive and balanced country, the guarantee of progress and living conditions throughout the territory, the defence of the interior and the rural world, with a broad range of integrated policies based on regionalization, the planning of the territory and a policy that protects nature and environmental balance. The country needs a policy capable of ensuring a new path to justice, which if it wants to be more equal, accessible and close to the citizens and to fight against corruption and economic and financial crime. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is our deep conviction that Portugal is not doomed to delay. The CFP has solutions to national problems. Just as it has been decisive in these last four years to move the country forward, so it continues with the same determination to build the future. At the beginning of this debate, I said that in these almost four years hope has been restored. Let that hope not wait. We'll fight for it! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u307	Since the Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we proceed to the following intervention, so I now give the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u308	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the short time remaining for the Greens in this debate, I would like to highlight three issues which, in our view, are absolutely structural and which require decisive political intervention. One relates to the fight against regional asymmetries and the promotion of territorial cohesion. We can promote many tax incentives, and they are important to pull people and economic dynamics into the interior. However, we must be aware that if the interior of the country continues to be emptied of public services in the area of health, in the area of education and, in particular, in the area of transport, with difficulty in mobility, then it will be very difficult to create this economic dynamics and of a greater number of people within the country. Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of the Greens, I also wanted to say that, in this Parliament, an opportunity has been lost to promote regionalization in this country, which is decisive in ensuring territorial cohesion, and there were conditions for this to happen. Another challenge is the fight against climate change. If a process of adaptation is essential, in which we have worked so much in this Parliament, for example in relation to forest matter, in order to make our forest more resistant to adaptation to this phenomenon, it is crucial that we look forward to combating climate change. And here too, the transport sector is decisive, as it is crucial to ensure that, in particular, in its pendulum movements, citizens release individual transport and use collective transport. It was very important to measure the reduction of the price of social passes, but without a good public transport network, without a serious and timely investment in this area, it is not possible to promote this mobilization dynamic for the use of public transport. A third challenge is the fight against poverty. We must be aware that income policy is crucial in addressing this challenge. Better wages are needed. We still have many workers in Portugal who are impoverished as we still have a very large and growing wage inequality, it seems, Mr. Prime Minister, between women and men. It's a matter we have to attack. We still have many young people leaving education, including higher education, or not completing 12. the year, because they have to enter the labour market, taking into account the few conditions of income of their families. This is indeed an unacceptable situation with great inequality that the country has to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u309	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u310	I'm done now, Mr. President. We need ambition in governance, we need more investment and not a blind submission to the dictates of the European Union, and I am sure that the Portuguese in general would trade a few tenths of the deficit for an investment that would solve their problems. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u311	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u312	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is factual that over the last few decades more hospitals have been built, there has been a greater strengthening of SNS budgets, the reduction in the price of medicines, the exemption of moderate rates, the increase in medical boarding vacancies, incentives to fix professionals in deprived areas, the stabilization of professional careers or the increase in consultations and surgeries. Important, no doubt, but these measures are not producing the necessary changes. SNS is increasingly under pressure. All because health promotion is not discussed in Portugal, the reaction to the disease is discussed. Yes, today the Portuguese live more, but with an excessive burden of disease. We live in a demographic context marked by population ageing, with a worrying increase in chronic diseases and a high number of people with multiple diseases. And why? Essentially due to inadequate eating habits that are the main ones responsible for the morbidity and loss of quality of life of the Portuguese. The State's burden on medicines for the treatment of chronic diseases has grown every year. For example, diabetes has risen by 40 % in recent years and represents more than 10 % of the total health budget, with an average cost, only with medicines, of 600 000 € per day. Finite resources — technical, human and financial — cannot respond to increasing needs and costs, making the SNS increasingly unsustainable and all because the fundamental issue is not discussed: prevention. When a quarter of the people who die in hospitals have diabetes the diagnosis is made: the Nation has not bet on long-term policies aimed at people's health and well-being. This is confirmed by numbers: only 1 % of the health budget is invested in prevention. Little by little below the OECD average ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). The viability of the National Health Service is achieved only by a commitment to health promotion and disease prevention. The debate on health must gain another centrality: how to prevent people from reaching hospitals, i.e. knowing the epidemiological patterns of the population, determining health factors and adopting medium- and long-term public policies. Yes, he does work, but it's possible and inevitable. It is also for the long term that we must think about the environmental policies, the objectives to be achieved and the commitments that will have to be made, perhaps difficult, that come into shock with the current and utopian ideology of unlimited growth. Indicators in waste management tell us that the current system is not effective and Portugal is at risk of failure to meet European targets by 2020. The landfill rate was 47 % in 2017 when the European average was around 27 %. The recycling rate of urban waste was also only 28 %, far from 50 %, to which we are committed. But more than recycling, the most worrying problem lies in the economic and social model of production and constant stimulus to consumption, for which the government and the party narrative have given signs in the opposite direction. The production of waste per capita has increased in Portugal, found at about 500 kg / year/ inhabitant. The instruments adopted in waste management have not been the most appropriate ones, so tax policies should be redesigned to deter landfill deposition, to extend environmental responsibility to producers, or measures to reduce consumption of single-use plastics, in addition to the implementation of the recoverable tar system, which the NAP has approved. Incomprehensible has been water resources management, especially in a climate crisis context that will tend to exacerbate problems. Given the importance of water for agriculture and the pressure of the agricultural sector on water systems, it is sensible and inevitable to implement an effective policy to improve conditions in this area, requiring compatibility between water use and agricultural policy. The way we are producing food is totally unsustainable due to the irresponsible use of water in some vegetable crops and the massive application of pesticides and fertilizers that contaminate surface and groundwater water masses, increase the rate of biodiversity loss and cause soil failure. The quality of the soil, with its enormous capacity of carbon retention and water, cannot continue to be neglected. With regard to the response to the expected impacts of the climate crisis, with regard to the decrease in average precipitation in the coming decades, the policies of this government, with the support of Parliament, have gone by increasing the production and export of livestock at the expense of the public record. Always with the illusory discourse that these businesses are necessary for the development and growth of the country, but never internalizing costs nor rendering accounts to the economic value of the ecosystems, which are exhausted. With regard to informing citizens of the water footprint of food production in our country, the Minister for the Environment is silent. The Minister of Agriculture is celebrating. To close this lost legislation in the promotion and development of organic agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture pointed out, a few days ago, in a bull race, in the company of those who love the most: the President of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). to the state we've reached, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The same man to whom the nation entrusts the protection and welfare of animals is the same as having fun with its massacre and protecting its aggressors.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u313	There's a promising coalition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u314	On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debating the state of the nation is discussing the well-being of women and men who make it exist. And in our societies, the level of well-being cannot be assessed without giving attention to employment — the employment that exists or the job that is lacking. Other factors are very important, but when employment fails, almost everything fails in social well-being. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's talk about employment and talk about facts. In fact, according to the monthly data of the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ), there are about 350 000 more jobs than at the beginning of the legislature. Some will say it's just numbers that don't show us the whole reality. It is true, but these figures also mean that there are fewer than 279 000 women and men in the unemployment situation, fewer than thousands of families without income from work, more than thousands of citizens of active age who again believed that they had the opportunity to access the right to work. But today's employment has also been a powerful element in the recovery of social cohesion and territorial cohesion. Because there are less than 230 000 long-term unemployed and more than 50 000 young jobs. Because female unemployment decreases by 127 000 and full-time work increased by 311 000 according to INE quarterly data. Because unemployment is falling throughout the national territory, all regions of the country have decreased unemployment by between 30 % and 50 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also the reality of the state in the nation. Yes, contrary to what prophesied the right in 2015, this majority and this government did not increase unemployment, before helped to create, as never in such a short time, hundreds of thousands of jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, contrary to the written commitment of the right-wing government, which had in 2015 an 11, 1 % rate for 2019 unemployment, it is 6, 6 % and only in that simple difference are 232 000 jobs. It's not a small difference! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, in 2015, the right would also say that the political options of this government would lead to « more than a political error, a strategic backwardness and a long period of stagnation and unemployment ». The truth of job creation is the difference that counts, perhaps not the only one, but certainly the most important. This job has been created by the economy, while we have risen the minimum wage for its highest real value since its creation. And, contrary to what threatened the prophets on the right, this increase no longer caused unemployment, did not prevent any more hiring, nor did it even prevent the general increase in wages. The obvious proof of this is the stability of the weight of workers who receive the national minimum wage. But more relevant is the fact that between January and April 2019 the overall employment calculated in the social security databases has increased 138 000 jobs, in terms of counterparts, while the number of people receiving the minimum wage has increased by less than 8,000. There was, not long ago, the number of workers to receive the minimum wage more than the increase in employment. Today, it's less than 8 % of the job growth we've had in the last year. And why? Because all the other salaries have grown at least at the minimum wage level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal also converges with the European Union on the employment rate. Men and women have the highest employment rates, with children or without children, throughout the European Union. This is also the state of the Nation. The improvement of the situation in the labour market cannot, of course, dispense a recovery of the quality and quantity of collective bargaining. Between 2015 and 2018, the coverage of new employees grew by 75%; this year is growing by 20%. They are positive data, although still far from what we wanted, but I am sure — and I can say here - that in 2019 we will be closer to the data of the year with the collective contract higher than the data of the years in which it was practically destroyed in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This stage of growth, without parallel, of employment in Portugal, was also made in an accelerated framework for improving qualifications: more than 50 % of employment growth corresponds to workers with higher education, more than 60 % to workers with secondary education training, which naturally reduced the weight of workers with lower education. We are still far from what we need in this area, but we are moving on the right path. It was this dynamism of employment and wages, the result of the political change of this majority and of this government, which allowed for improving social protection, whether in its effectiveness or in its sustainability. thus, the growth of social security pension transfers has reached more than EUR 5000 million in this legislation than in past legislation. This was the result of contributions from workers and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this contrasts—and how—with what he said in his motion of rejection to this government in 2015 the right. At the time, he said that this government would bring « decapitalisation of social security systems » and « adventures in the use of its accumulated resources ». Adventures in social security! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the affair that the right was talking about has not been fulfilled. What was accomplished was the growth of all values of social minimums, such as the IAS (indicating social support), the CSI (single supplement for the elderly) and the RSI (social income for inclusion), as happened with the creation of social benefits for people with disabilities, as happened with the new family allowance policy, but a policy of birth support that benefited about 140 000 children annually and which resulted in a reinforcement in this legislation, even in this demographic framework, of about 242 million euros at the level of expenditure, compared to the previous legislation. The combined evolution of the labour market situation and social protection has made it possible to take positive steps to combat one of the greatest weaknesses in our country: the levels of inequality and poverty. Only until 2017, compared to 2015, the number of Portuguese in poverty fell by more than 180 000. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2015, there was an inequality ratio in which the richest 10 % had incomes 10, 1 times higher than the poorest 10 %. In 2017, this relationship had evolved to 8, 7, a still high value, but clearly a sign of reducing inequality in income distribution. This is also the reality of the nation state. The combination of balanced policies to strengthen social protection, improve sustainability and expand sources of funding has led to a substantial strengthening of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund ( FEFSS ). It is clear that we have heavy, demographic and technological challenges and we know that more needs to be done to deal with them, but knowing that it was possible to exceed the EUR 18 billion of FEFSS assets in March of this year is surely good news. It is also good to know that the transfers made at the end of 2018 will allow the security scenario of this fund to be extended, but it is even more positive power here to assure you that by the end of the year it will be possible to strengthen the fund by more than EUR 1, 3 billion, which will translate an unprecedented reality into Portuguese history and will be closer to the objective of the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This will certainly make this legislation the one in which the Stabilisation Fund has been strengthened most since its existence, proving that, contrary to what the choir of the prophets of misfortune said, this government was not a government of easy options, as if it were not tomorrow. Yes, it was a government that worked for the present, to improve social protection, but also for the future, to strengthen its sustainability. We have faced difficulties in the areas of state administration and also in social security. It is strange that those who have allowed a brutal decapitalisation of the social security system, with a reduction of almost 40 % of their resources, now complain about these effects. But the government has worked to solve them and I say here that the system has a response capacity as it has never had in the past and that only this year has been processed new 93 000 pensions in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was the legislature that reintroduced the social dialogue, which took up the fight for equality and against poverty, which has beaten by decent work and increased social protection. And that is truly the most important aspect of the nation's state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u316	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, two Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. However, the clarifications were converted into interventions by one of Mr José Soeiro, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, and another of Mrs Rita Rato, the Parliamentary Group of the CFP. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u317	Mr President, Minister, as has been said here, we have begun this legislation to restore the holidays cut off on the right, to regain the value of pensions and social support, to increase the minimum wage and to end the fifteen-year humiliations of the unemployed. It was with the joint votes of the Bloc, the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party, and with the opposition to the right, that we made a law to combat forced labour, that we strengthened the law to combat harassment and that we respond to the workers of PT ( Portugal Telecom ), who mobilized against the abutres of Altice, with a new law on the transmission of establishment. It was in conjunction with Mr Minister that we took concrete steps to enhance the very long careers of the workers of the prairie, to end the cut in unemployment allowance, to strengthen the protection of self-employed workers and to make the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. We are reaching the end of the legislature and the end of the process of changing labour legislation. The debate and the votes of the Government's proposal which have been made in the speciality already allow us to make a balance sheet. in this process, the PS joined the PSD and the CDS to maintain, in the Labour Code, the cuts that the right entered into the law in 2012: the three-day cuts on vacation, the values of extraordinary hours and redundancy compensation. The PS joined the PSD and the CDS to prevent measures of equalization of rights between public and private: 35 hours, meal allowance, follow-up of children on the first day of school. The Government has proposed to enshrine in the law precautionary measures negotiated with the employers and supported by the right: very short-term oral contracts for all sectors of activity, a new figure of bank hours outside collective bargaining and the extension to double the experimental period of young people seeking first and long-term unemployed. The experimental period is the most precarious of all labour relations provided for in the law. The law allows, during the experimental period, what the Constitution prohibits: free dismissal, without prior notice, without reason and without compensation. That is why its duration has always been a critical issue. Turning the experimental period into an entire semester without any right is, in our view, abuse. When in 2008 Mr. Minister proposed to extend the experimental period of all non-differentiated workers to six months, this rule was dropped by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u318	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u319	Mr President, I conclude with the following: Minister, we have worked together for many hours, started a lot of stones, made positive changes in the lives of millions of people. A labour reform hostile to workers and on a collision course with the Constitution would be the worst way to end this legislation. This legislation should end as it began: with a joint work, in contrast to the inheritance of austerity and right, and in harmony with the Constitution. That's the appeal I wanted to leave you. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u320	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u321	Mr President, Minister, you have no time to answer, but we are sure that you will hear with the same attention the appeal we will leave you. Mr. Minister, there is no doubt that it was worth and worth fighting and that it was worth defeating the PSD and CDS government and keeping them away from the government. The defeat and removal of PSD and CDS were decisive in restoring rights and returns. Mr Minister, we have listened carefully to this and I must say that the reduction in unemployment is positive, the increase in employment is important, but the increase in employment with rights is essential. Mr Minister, I said here that the increase in employment was decisive in the country's economic situation — and that is true. But it is also true that, in 40% of the new contracts, workers take up the national minimum wage which, despite having had significant increases, remains much below what would be necessary and which guarantees minimum living conditions in our country. In our country, one third of the people in poverty continue to be workers, people who get up every day to work and yet what they receive at the end of the month is not enough to live in conditions of dignity. Therefore, the requirement to increase the minimum wage to €850 is decisive and is essential for improving living conditions—not only is it decisive, as is possible and necessary. Mr Minister, we have heard here Mr Prime Minister proud - and well - that, over the last four years, the Constitutional Court has never considered a norm that has been adopted here unconstitutional. Mr Prime Minister has done well to be proud, because this is right: to legislate according to the Constitution and not against the Constitution, as has been done in recent years. But Mr Prime Minister and Mr Minister, the appeal we make to you is that the extension of the experimental period for young people and for long-term unemployed was unconstitutional in 2009. Why should Parliament vote on this rule, when in fact in 2009 the Constitutional Court has already considered that the extension of the experimental period is unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u323	Why stain these four years with unconstitutionality? Mr Prime Minister and Mr Prime Minister, it is very clear that it was very important to limit long-term contracts for young people and for long-term unemployed. That's right! What is not right is to present as an exchange currency the limitation of the term contract to long-term unemployed workers and young people and then offer the employer the extension of the experimental period exactly for these people, leaving the workers six months without any protection, and can be dismissed without any justification and without the minimum guaranteed rights. Therefore, the extension of the experimental period is an aberration that must be corrected. from the CFP, we still have the opportunity to vote on our proposal which eliminates the extension of the experimental period and which can in fact avoid unconstitutionality which has already been declared in 2009. For our part, we will continue to be struck by our proposal until the end of the discussion on the speciality and then also on the plenary. Mr Minister, let me tell you the following: we talked about the experimental period and we talked about 35 hours in the public and in the private sector, which were rejected, when workers had been working for more than 130 years since the first of May, fighting for a reduction in working hours. Today, having the whole society of science and technology at its service, we should be discussing the reduction of working hours, with more time for the family and more time to live, but here the bill insists on the deregulation of schedules, in the hours banks imposed by companies, which means a complete disarticulation of people's lives. Mr Minister, there is another issue, which has to do with the expiry of collective bargaining and with the most favourable treatment principle. The most favourable treatment principle is a prerequisite for the right to work. This ensures that workers always have protected rights, taking into account the most favourable situation. Don't! We have a Labour Code that says that what is in the law is the maximum and that, from then on, it is what we can enforce. What we say is exactly the opposite: what is in the law has to be the minimum and from there, collective bargaining and the struggle of workers must go further in strengthening rights. Mr Minister, I would like to leave you one last question with regard to PREVPAP. We make this last debate here and there are many questions within the scope of PREVPAP : on the RTP ( Portuguese Television Radio ), 58 workers await reply; on the IEFP ( Employment and Vocational Training Institute ), in the State Laboratories, at the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere), at the LNEG ( National Energy and Geology Laboratory ), at the LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering) still have neither approved opinions nor open competitions. The State has an obligation to set an example of the fight against precariousness, and it must do so. on our part, we will continue until the end of this term until the last day to beat us for this: employment is important, but employment with rights is essential. Mr Minister, we shall continue here, to the end, saying that until the last minute it is time to restore and defend rights, and it will not be for lack of proposals from the CFP that will not be possible to vote. Mr Minister, what is regrettable is that the PSD and the CDS have given viability to all proposals. Mr. Prime Minister said here that this legislation of work is historic. Mr Prime Minister, if it were historical, why would the PSD and the CDS be defending workers' rights? Don't you think it's weird?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u324	That's a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u325	It's not historical, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u326	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u327	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. What is present today in the Assembly of the Republic is a historic opportunity to restore and defend rights and is in the hands of the PS to decide with whom you want to rest them, if you want to join the PSD and the CDS to continue to degrade living and working conditions, or if you want to join the CFP and, in fact, ensure employment with rights and the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u328	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u329	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The path has been defined. The path has been taken, but the path is not completed. It is with this understanding that the Socialist Party makes the balance sheet of the State of the Nation. As we have already said, in our last parliamentary days in Viseu, we do so by finding out the good results we have achieved, but with the awareness and detection of what is important to pursue, correct and innovate. This was the Legislature of trust. We assumed the leadership of the government at the end of 2015, with a broken country, with discouraged entrepreneurs and families affected in their lives by an ungrateful, unproductive and inhumane austerity. We have done so, knowing that « no wind blows for those who do not know where to go». With the leadership of the PS, we did not hesitate to choose the next path: to help families urgently; to activate the economy and add jobs; to save the banking system; to take better care of public accounts, even by reducing tax components, such as IRS, IRC or VAT; and to change the image of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have therefore committed ourselves, all of us, with great enthusiasm, knowing that it competes with the PS to gather energies, to group and lead available desires, such as those manifested through the PCP, BE and Greens, but above all, and more importantly, to gather and give content to the hope of a large majority of Portuguese and Portuguese, anxious for a change. Today, we know in the PS that the successes we have achieved have not yet fully consolidated the defences that the country needs to withstand the extraordinary negative impacts, particularly within the European Union, where we have also become more active among the Member States. We know that it has not taken enough time to capitalize on all our companies that in the past have been most affected by their robustness. We know that we still need to make better use of our own and natural resources, such as the sea, which are crucial to our sustainability. But the way has so far been an extraordinary path and what we have to do is to move on, more quickly, it is true, but with the same care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that we must also continue to work to have a State with effective legal, security and justice systems, to have a strong public administration, but close to the territory, regulator and supervisor, efficient, provider and guarantor of individual rights, an administration welcoming the initiative of citizens, businesses, universities, youth, men and women of culture and science, of the initiative, which is a guarantor of free and prosperous societies. We must therefore strengthen the capacities of public services by investing more, but above all, by mobilising, without prejudice, in what the public interest approves, the collaboration of the private initiative, with priority in areas whose exhaustion is most notorious, whether in health or in other sectors. We know that it is still possible to improve the relationship with autonomous regions, enhancing the national cooperative nature of its constitutional authenticity and the rights of Azorians and Madeirans. We know that the enormous gains we have already achieved and that we will continue to achieve, for families and for people, will only be lasting if they are incorporated into an economic and financially sustainable organization. Therefore, once again, the PS did not allow itself to be taken in this legislature by making it easier for us to be unreasonable and budgeted, which would cause everything to be lost, nor, in the future, will it certainly allow itself to be led by unconnected prodigies as some of the opposition parties have already announced in their electoral promises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will therefore continue to make the way safe, assuming and carrying out all the benefits that do not make us run the risks of having to go back. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the Legislature of the victory of trust. The victory over those who, as the former leader of the PSD, prophesied, and I quote, that « investment would fall to peak », « employment or stagnating or destroying », « exacerbating budgetary risks », « the government has thrown confidence out of the window », or asking « who is the investor who believes the future will be secure(...)? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The answer, over time, hit him clearly: everything that happened in these four years was exactly the opposite of what the PSD predicted! Luckily, for the Portuguese and for the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Legislation is also a victory over those who, like the CDS leader, predicted that, and I quote: « The current government would distrust independent, national and international institutions, the European Commission, the Eurogroup and finally the financial markets, with debt interest rising to levels that we no longer knew...».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u330	I had good eyes there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u331	After all, at the leader's laugh, fortunately, there were other news that came: unequivocal expressions of trust of everything that is international reference institution and, as far as interest is concerned, it seems to us that the CDS will pay them more expensive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u332	It's going to tears! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government :...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u334	And cousins! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u335	This was, in fact, the Legislature of trust! of the trust that families,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u336	Always the family!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u337	... concerned with the education of their children, they gained, seeing the increase in the pre-school network or the free distribution of manuals, with the best results always in the reduction of school dropout and retention, with the inclusion actions in digital society, with the reduction of the maximum value of propines or with the increase to double the doctoral scholarships. the trust of the most fragile people and families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u338	How tender! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u339	... that have seen increased family allowance for their children and young people, the solidarity supplement and pensions for the elderly, new support for all people with disabilities, the national minimum wage, reduced moderate rates and their guaranteed family doctor, recognized informal caregivers, the extension to more than 700 000 families of the social energy rate, the protection of their household in tax litigation situations and a new basic law that will stimulate the realization of this and other rights. They have gained hopes, but above all, confidence among Portuguese families, in which the risk rate of poverty among children has reached the lowest value ever and, as a whole, the income available has increased over the last 10 years. Trust has also reached the more than 350 000 people who have obtained employment, the overwhelming majority of whom with a contract without end or who have seen their precarious job situation overcome. Less than 10 unemployed for every hour that's passed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And don't come to the right to say that he would also rest income if he was in the government. Not only did he not do so at the end of his term of office, as he was even preparing to reduce 600 million euros in Portuguese pensions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With decisions, such as those we have taken, to end the humiliation of women by resorting to voluntary interruption of pregnancy,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... protection of victims of harassment at the workplace, of the balanced representation of women and men in the organs of administration or removal, for example, of the legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With all this, and with other measures we have taken, we have made many women and many men in Portugal to gain confidence, to gain security and to gain citizenship! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It was also a legislation with confidence gains for companies and investors, clearly visible in the economic climate indicator, 70 % above what happened in 2016, in exports, in companies'investment, which has reached the highest level since 2010, or in improving the situation of the bank which is now best equipped to support our economy. We have gained confidence in a safer territory, implementing the priority of forest reform, reviewing the bases of land planning policy, decentralization of competences, policies for setting people and businesses and positive discrimination inside, reorganisation of civil protection to better deal with events, such as rural fires and the fight against the aggravating factors of the climate emergency situation that we live on a global scale. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we have thus concluded this Parliament in respect of our commitment to the Portuguese and Portuguese. We're doing a better Portugal. And we will continue to work for a winning Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS, standing, and from the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Carlos César. We are going to end the debate in which, as you know, the government has 10 minutes. You have the floor, therefore, to close the debate, Mr Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, dear and dear colleagues of the Government today, precisely 1322 days after the takeover of the XXI Constitutional Government, we can say: yes, it was possible! It was possible to build an alternative. Because there are always alternatives in democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u343	And this alternative was materialized by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our alternative was achieved through the credibility of those who carried out, month after month, year after year, the commitments they made, exactly in the sequence and the size in which we had presented them. We started by investing in trust, in a relationship of trust with Portuguese society through Parliament. Representative democracy materializes in parliamentary representation. There were only those who discovered it in 2015. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] There has never been a more parliamentary government before. Parliament has never played such a decisive role in our democracy before. The political solution found was unique and enriched democracy. It's a pride and a responsibility to be part of it. I therefore thank all those who have built their parliamentary support daily throughout the legislature on behalf of the Government. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It was a solution in which many did not believe, but in which, fortunately, many more bet. To all of us, thank you. It's worth it, for Portugal! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This was the legislature of trust, employment and the right accounts. The confidence of economic actors is at the age of 20 and is a clear sign that there was, after all, an alternative to a different policy. Because only confidence brings investment, and the best way to invest today is in quality employment. It was for the stabilization of the financial system that we recapitalized the General Deposit Box and that we created the mechanisms necessary for the capitalisation of our companies so that they could invest on a solid basis. The responsibility for the stability of the national financial system lies with the Government. A responsibility not assumed in the past. But in this legislature, no! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Portugal has had the highest rates of employment growth in recent years. Today, the Portuguese economy employs more than 350 000 workers. There are fewer than 290 000 unemployed Portuguese. There are fewer than 90 000 families where everyone is unemployed. Portugal, today, is better. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] And since all productive investment has as return more production, companies are today more productive and families have more income, more wages. The well-being of Portuguese therefore converges three consecutive years with the European Union. Never, in the last 30 years, had that been accomplished. And we do it with certain accounts. We no longer compromise the future with more taxes. The authorities are no longer meeting to determine and correct deficits, but to determine the budget balance. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Today, I am addressing the millions of Portuguese whose self-esteem increased when Portugal came out of the excessive deficit procedure. We're not going back! Today, I speak to the millions of Portuguese people who, when they heard of corrections and budget spills, thought: "This comes to me." No, it won't happen again! We are leading Europe in job creation, reducing unemployment, improving financial conditions and budgetary consolidation! Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we did it! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We've been making the most public services in the last decade! We again bet on workers in public functions, recovering wages, promoting their qualifications, creating better working conditions, developing management models that stimulate innovation. But we have put users as priority priorities. This bet has numerous expressions. Otherwise, let's see. In education, classes always started on the appointed day.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u344	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u345	We have almost forgotten the school years that are always late, always to be fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We met, because we hired more than 8500 educators, teachers and assistants, because we strengthened the investment, in each year of the legislature, in more than 200 schools in the country. After more than EUR 800 million has been withdrawn from primary and secondary education between 2011 and 2015, this government ends the legislature by placing more EUR 1000 million per year in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We meet, because we invest in teaching our children, we invest in younger generations, we invest in the future of the country. Also in higher education, more than 15 000 students per year were added, doubled the number of new scholarships in higher education, there were more 21% in the budget for social action, there were more 1,600 doctoral scholarships awarded in 2018, an increase of 78 %. Likewise in culture, we invest as in no other area. With a budget of more than EUR 500 million per year today, there are about 40 % more resources compared to the previous legislation. Because continuous and sustained investment in culture is essential for the development model we want for Portugal. But, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in this Parliament, have been invested in the health of Portuguese more than EUR 4 600 million than in the previous four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u346	You don't notice anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u347	More EUR 4 600 million! There are 11 500 professionals, including doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and assistants. Because everyone counts! Because everyone counts! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] And because those who account most are the Portuguese, the users of the National Health Service, more than 2,600 million euros were invested in medicines, diagnostics and medical devices. There are more consultations, more surgeries, more treatments. And let us not be deceived: that would not be possible if there were no more professionals and more financial resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Portugal today is better, but we cannot give up. We cannot have an attitude of complacency or denial in the face of public life. These two attitudes move us away, as citizens, decisions and others take our place, because they generate abstentionism, populism, defeatism and a feeling that, no matter what we do, we never get there. That is an appeal we must reject. Let us be ever more and more demanding, but interpret the collective effort we have been making. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who want to lead us to give up are the same ones they didn't think we'd be here. They're not here yet. I have already said that in democracy there are always alternatives, but alternatives have to be clear so that they can be credible. Let's not get into auctions of election promises. That was the policy of the past, the policy of brusque surroundings. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[CDS-PP laughter.]] What's the point of coming in now to say the opposite of what was said a few months ago? Portugal has today approved the most demanding investment plan in transport and infrastructures of the last 15 years, the largest investment of the century in rail,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...the largest investment in rail rolling stock in 50 years, the largest investment in passenger transport boats in the last 20 years, the largest investment in hospital facilities in many, many years. throughout this legislation, we have reduced the tax effort of families and businesses in the IRS, IRC, VAT! Today, Portuguese families pay less taxes for every euro they receive from wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, for each consumed unit, the Portuguese pay less VAT, without hidden taxes for the future. In three years, in addition to tax relief, Portuguese families received EUR 19 billion of additional wages. The wages received by Portuguese families grew 16% in this legislation! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u348	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u349	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the beginning of 2016, the new « old», which are not of the Restelo, but that of Lapa and Caldas descended to Saint Benedict, appealed to mafaric and arithmetical impossibility for months. Today, we all know how wrong they were. But they were wrong because they didn't believe in the Portuguese. They did not believe in the transforming capacity of those to whom they said « emigrate! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is that, as Manuel Alegre wrote, « I who left and who was always present», these Portuguese never left Portugal. They did not believe in the tireless work of those who, for them, only «lived above their possibilities». Or even, as Alegre wrote, «I did everything and never had anything». Thank you, Manuel Alegre. Today we remember, since it was past, your Exiled Luxury, so that Portugal does not leave the place that belongs to it again in the world and that the Portuguese do not have to leave the place that belongs to them again in the world. And this place is Portugal! [[Congratulations from the PS, with members standing, and from the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u350	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u351	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. That's the legacy we can't lose. For Portugal and for the Portuguese. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations, standing, doPS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-10.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the state of the nation and have also reached the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting is held on Friday, 19 July, on the agenda of the Second Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and Bank Management, the Annual Report of the Ombudsman, the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) - 2018 and Petition No 474 / XIII / 3. a ( Association ANIMAL - Rita Silva ) — By a circus free of animals in Portugal. The Report of the Supervisory Board of DNA Profile Database is also scheduled, to which no discussion time has been assigned. There will also be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 53 minutes.]]
