ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start today's agenda with a left block marking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u2	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u3	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u4	Mr President, I would like to present a protest to the Bureau. at this moment, the plenary is beginning, already 10 minutes late, even within the normal deadlines. however, the Committee on European Affairs, together with the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, continues to hear the Minister for Finance. Knowing that, on the one hand, the work in plenary has precedence over the work in committee and, on the other hand, that the diploma currently under discussion in plenary also has a connection with the activity of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the authorization by the Bureau to continue the hearing of the Minister during the course of plenary deserves us a protest. This is because this meeting clearly undermines the work of the plenary and because there is an undue preparation of the work by the Committee on European Affairs. It is not the plenary but the parliamentary groups responsible for the fact that the committees do not properly prepare the hearings of the ministers. So I could not fail to start this debate without demonstrating, on the one hand, our repudiation of this protest in the face of the lack of preparation of the work by the Committee on European Affairs, and on the other, by the decision of Mr President, even though he was embarrassed by the work being carried out, but for us this could not go unnoticed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u5	Mr President, I would ask you to understand why this hearing began at 12 noon, so there are now more than three hours, and it will certainly not be on the part of the Minister that the hearing has been extended all this time. in these circumstances, there was an authorization for the hearing to begin at that time and when the hearings begin also it is not possible to know exactly when they end because it depends on parliamentary groups. What I propose is that, while we stand up to your observation, we begin the work. [[Pause.]] Before we begin the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 1123 / XIII / 4. a, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file. In the meantime, the final round of the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs may end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Bill Nos 1172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — low-density higher education stimulus scheme, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1173 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Legal Scheme for the Evaluation of Higher Education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Interpretational provision on propion, which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 1175 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — regulates existing labour relations in counseling, which goes down to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2032 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( PAR) — First amendment to the Management of Performance Regulation in the Assembly of the Republic, approved by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 49 / 2015 of 8 May 2051 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Higher education for children of Portuguese emigrants, which falls to 8. the Commission, 2052 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to effectively encourage the establishment of integrated responsibility centres which fall to 9. the Commission, and 2053 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of all asbestos coverage existing at the Manuel Cargalero High School, Sixal, and the general re-qualification of its building. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u7	Mrs. Members, we will begin the general appraisal of the Bill No 1123 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates tax on certain digital services. To open the debate, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We arrived in 2019 and, if we look back, we quickly realize that the transformation in the way we communicate with each other is unimaginable, if we wanted to predict it 20 or 30 years ago. One of the great transformations in the way we communicate is linked to the world of news information, the one that would get us home every day through television or newspapers, kiosks and cafes, and which is now within reach of a click on any of our smartphones. The internet entry into our lives has changed our standards of information consumption. Currently, access to information is increasingly done online, at any time and with the depreciation of the usual periodicals of traditional media. On the other hand, this new form of consumption was made available free of charge, with a brutal change in the way advertising revenues were made. In Portugal, we saw a stabilization of advertising revenues in the post-troika, but with a distribution that deserves some reflection. Television represents around 40 % of the advertising market for media, with around 200 million euros, maintaining a stable value in recent years. However, we have seen a great appreciation of digital content, with the revenues to double over the past five years approaching television rapidly. What is missing is the most symbolic: the large multinationals of the digital economy are the ones that receive the fattest share of these digital recipes. Clearly, the written press has been the great harm with the rise of digital, either in its revenue, or in the way the contents it produces are then used economically for the multinationals of the digital economy, or in the way the fake news also threaten their credibility. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the use of a tax on certain digital services, which we are proposing today, can have a key role to play in valuing the written press. According to data from the Portuguese Information Association itself, the two major metropolitan areas of the country — Lisbon and Porto — have lost almost all of their printed regional press. This data is worrying for two reasons: firstly, because access to information, even if the Internet does so in a faster way, cannot be guaranteed through a single technological means of communication. To guarantee the plurality of information transmission mechanisms is to defend diversity in press freedom. Secondly, because the discussion about what is happening in our territory is not always guaranteed with rigour and depth, through so-called social networks or online newspapers. If we allow the debate on our streets to be forgotten, then we are taking the first step to keep democracy away from our daily lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to take action. The search for truth requires concrete acts. Time does not wait for anyone and we do not need to waste time trying to stop it. Technological innovation is evidence, then we know how to work on this new reality, with the proper mechanisms of justice. We need public investment to safeguard the survival of local and national social communication and, at the same time, to give it the tools needed to modernise and empower it for the challenges of the future, the challenges of technological innovation and the new spaces for information exchange. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose the creation of a programme, in partnership with the media bodies, for all 12 students. the year and higher education have an annual subscription of newspaper or magazine, by them chosen, ensuring the connection of nearly half a million young people with the press. If we agree with what we need to do, then we move forward to the debate on how we can do it. The Block project, which we present and discuss here today, creates a tax that affects the provision of certain digital services where the participation of users is a contribution to the value-building process of service providers. They are services that would never exist without the action of these users and therefore must return to the territories where this value is created. Since it is not a tax on income or wealth, but on the creation of value in a given territory with the intervention of users of that territory, it is not framed in the double taxation treaties, which have allowed the multinationals of the digital economy to escape the payment of taxes. Therefore, the tax on certain digital services applies in particular to advertising to users of a particular digital interface or platform, the so-called "online advertising service"; the provision of digital interfaces or platforms that allow users to locate and interact with other users, facilitating the delivery of goods or services underlying them directly to those users, the so-called "online brokerage service"; and the transmission, including the sale or termination, of data collected from users, generated by activities carried out in digital interfaces or platforms. It is simple the proposal that we put forward here and of course Parliament has to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last decade has revealed the rise and power of a new digital economy. of the 20 largest companies in the world, nine are now digital, when there is only one decade in this list. As I said earlier, the world does not wait for us. We knew how to work on the present and the future, ensuring justice in the economy, fighting the greed of half a dozen, to the detriment of a country and a society more just, supportive and where press freedom is safeguarded with concrete actions. We must act and we must act, of course, so that the concern about the quality of democracy is not, itself, false news. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u9	Mr. Deputies, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u10	I answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u11	Therefore, Mr Leonel Costa of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Bloc Members, more taxes? [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] With management, in 2017 and 2018, we had the biggest tax burden ever. in this Parliament, this government has already produced 34 tax and tax increases, I repeat, 34. The Unsatisfied Block proposes to create another tax and thus increase the tax burden. Does anyone doubt that this tax will affect the increase in prices, the Portuguese users of these services? The Block today, here, and the PS last week in Brussels seem unsatisfied to increase the tax burden and the food dose of the tax monster. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u13	Mrs. Members, they do not support the PSD. We do not accept to increase the tax burden to the Portuguese anymore. [[BE's protests.]] This is unacceptable. That's enough! On the other hand, this tax only makes sense as a harmonised mechanism in a broader context,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u14	How obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u15	... ideally within the OECD and, in the worst case, within the European Union and never applied by one or two countries alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u16	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u17	It does not make sense to be isolated in this matter, not because we are afraid to take the step forward, but because, being reasonable and not populist, it would raise problems of various order. The control capacity of our Tax Authority alone would naturally be diminished and the law would be ineffective if created by a small country such as Portugal, taking into account that these companies are not even settled in our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u19	Then, the access of Portuguese users would naturally increase or then these companies would simply bar users' access with IP (Internet Protocol) registered in Portugal to avoid, thus, raising this tax and be subject to a complex and unique declaratory obligation in comparison with the other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u20	It's not worth explaining! They don't connect to the consequences!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u21	Finally, this bill of yours is a gross violation of the Budget Framework Law, which, as you know, is a law of strengthened value. Article 16 ( 1 ). the, this Law expressly prohibits the allocation of the product of any revenue to cover certain expenses. however, the Block precisely intends to affect the revenue of collecting this tax at a specific expense, in an attempt to save its project, which, you know, is lacking, at the start, with a supposed benevolent objective. But that, you all know, is only a conversation to disguise your desire to increase the tax monster, because you really don't want to know about social communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u22	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u23	In order not to remember the Block to venture that the PSD is against social communication, it is clear that there is a party that in this area of social communication it is willing to face this debate, it is the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u24	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u25	Also within the framework of the State budget, the PSD presented a set of proposals for support and development to social, regional and local communication. The question is as follows: how did the Bloc vote? He voted against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u26	To reply, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leonel Costa, I realized that you did not ask any questions. Still, I'm going to make some comments about what I said. First of all, it would have been important for the honourable Member, before asking the question he did not ask, to have read the draft of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u28	It wasn't bad anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u29	It would have been important, it was a first step! As you have noticed that you have not read it, you could at least not contradict your own party, have read, for example, the article of opinion of the current candidate for the European Parliament Paulo Rangel, which says exactly the opposite of what Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u30	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u31	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u32	The PSD candidate for the European Parliament just said...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u33	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u34	...that any solution that the OECD has presented for a European tax is a failed measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u35	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u36	So if you come here to say that in Europe you have to solve the problem and the PSD candidate to the European Parliament says that in Europe the problem will never be solved, well, you have to find a solution but it is for the PSD problem, it is not for the Block project, which, as you have already noticed, does not even read it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is also interesting to notice in the game of words that PSD makes about the brutal increase of taxes. They say: « Well, here comes the Left Block to propose another tax». PSD candidate Paulo Rangel says the following : « What happens today with tax regimes in countries such as Ireland, the Netherlands, Austria, Malta and Luxembourg is negative for Portugal and the European Union. This is tax dumping which introduces distortions and injustices within EMU ( Economic and Monetary Union ) and the internal market ». Now, if what we are proposing here is to ensure that companies that have services in this territory pay in this territory, then we are solving one of the problems that the then PSD candidate Paulo Rangel puts on the table to be solved. Sir, I know you haven't read the project. Perhaps, if I read it, I could even take advantage of it for your campaign! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u37	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Monteiro, first of all...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u39	They want to see that you're going to say the same thing! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u40	Don't! Take it easy, Mr. Pureza! Take it easy! First of all, I would like to thank the Block on the Left for giving us the opportunity to discuss this issue when presenting this initiative, which, in fact, I see it being considered. by reading and comparative analysis that I did with some projects that have been presented in Europe, it is not by chance that we find that this initiative is very inspired by the Spanish project. They don't understand what I'm going to say as a repair, but because they value national sovereignty so much, they also express themselves in the language and, therefore, some of the translations that came directly from the Spanish to the Portuguese could have been perhaps a little more careful.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u41	I thought it was about PSOE!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u42	By taking that detail, which is relevant and could not fail to mention, it would be important to take into account that we are in fact facing a problem. We are talking about an emerging economy, the digital economy, which obviously has competitive tax advantages and which ultimately runs away to the so-called « traditional economy ». We may have different views on the discussion plan about them — we will certainly talk about this in this debate — but precisely because we have read the project, I would like to ask Mr three or four very specific questions about the solutions that are presented in your legislative initiative. I begin by referring to Article 4. your project, which defines unilaterally when an operation is considered to be based in Portugal. My first question is: unilaterally, will this definition be compatible with the double taxation conventions which Portugal has signed? My conviction is that it is not and will not be applicable in these countries. But I would like to know what the Left Block has for this particular problem. Article 13. the project says that the court litigation and administrative portuguese will be the only competent. Because it is a matter which also involves international taxation, once again the question is asked: what is the compatibility of this standard with the treaties signed by Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u43	They don't know what they're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u44	Is it compatible or is it not? I don't think it is; anyway, I'd like to know your answer. I now refer to Article 7. the, which has to do with the definition of the taxable base. I read: 'in the case of online advertising services, it will be applied to the overall amount of revenue obtained, the proportion representing the number of times the advertising appears on devices found on national territory in relation to the total number of times the same advertising is displayed on any device at any location'. This will necessarily generate information duties. My very concrete question is how the Left Block wants them to be applicable to each entity, having neither headquarters nor stable establishment in Portugal. How do they solve this question? If these duties cannot be met, forgive me, we will not be talking about a tax — and we will not achieve the goal of taxing, in fact, this activity — we will be facing something that is nothing. This is the explanation that, I think, this debate deserves. And this matter deserves no solution whatsoever. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u45	To reply, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I would like to thank you for the relevant questions you have raised about the project. It is already an advance to have read and studied the matter. Therefore, we are more willing to talk about reality and not a fake new in relation to a project that seems to exist only for the PSD and that does not correspond to what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u48	As I said, the project that we are presenting is also inspired by a proposal that the PSOE put forward in the past State budget and therefore falls within a clear problem that we have in each of the Member States and that, so far, the European Union has not been able to resolve or, at least, has not shown great political will to do so. We have already had the opportunity to say, and I repeat: it was good that there were more links at European and international level so that this could happen. The fact is that at the moment, what is on the table is a set of initiatives — presented by France and Spain, to give only two examples — in which concrete proposals and projects have been put forward to solve the problem. Responding directly to each of the questions you have raised, I will say the following : first of all, with regard to Article 4. , yes, Mr, they are compatible with double taxation. Our bill is made in the image of what the Spanish State has also tried on this subject. With regard to Articles 7. it's 13. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that a Secretary of State — who was already a Member of this House in the Assembly of the Republic — and who, I think, divides the Commission's work with him — has signed an international treaty submitted by the OECD that removes these cases in particular those set out in Article 17. the, these double taxation treaties. Therefore, this OECD international treaty ensures that the draft law of the Left Block, in particular articles 4. o, 13. a is 7. the, fits in what it presents, ensures the effectiveness of what is exposed in the articulate and does not clash with these international treaties. In our view, and taking into account the study we have done for the legal building on this subject, are compatible. All we need to do is move forward. We hope that the Socialist Party will follow the Bloc bill, which actually means following what the PSOE and the Spanish government are doing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u49	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are called in this plenary session to discuss a standard and typical measure of the parties of this majority. throughout the legislature, everyone has had great capacity to create and aggravate taxes, contributions and rates. The Government, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have come to compete with each other to see which of them can be more effective and more efficient to rely on taxpayers, whether natural or legal persons. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not inappropriate to discuss at the moment the issue of the taxation of digital services, but it should have a different framework than the one the Left Block wants to give through the presentation of this legislative initiative. at a time when records of tax revenue collection, it is necessary to have the ambition to alleviate the effort to which the Portuguese are subject. The creation of new taxes cannot progress without this assessment being made and without removing consequences in terms of tax relief. For PSD, this is a prior consideration of the creation of new taxes or the worsening of existing taxes. The discussion on the subject will have to aim at reducing the tax burden. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, the creation of a tax with these characteristics will have to result in a multilateral commitment involving the countries of the European Union and/or the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). It is clear and clear that the country would lose if it moved alone, when others stronger and more powerful do not want to take those risks. at this time, there is no international experience that brings us positive expectations for measures of the same kind as the Left Block brings the debate. In fact, today we have had the opportunity to hear from the Left Block several attempts and various tests that have so far been failed tests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must find a legal system supported by international agreements in order to avoid tax litigation, including with the involvement of several countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the place of creation of value has been used for the establishment of tax taxation and, if we change to the place of consumption, there is a whole reformulation of rules that will require governments to understand themselves in the definition of these rules. The interpretation of corporate tax principles should not be dependent on the fact that the company belongs to the digital economy until, increasingly, barriers and borders are more difficult to define. The rules found will have to be comprehensive and applied to all companies, because today they are or are walking towards a widespread use of digital tools and applied to relevant sets of countries. The proposal from the Left Block refers us to a tax based not on profit, but on revenue, and this mechanism would trigger the impact on consumers of this cost and, once again, would make them victims of the proposed solution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has come to bet on the international promotion of an image that can put it on the front of the countries friends of the digital revolution that we live, so the creation of this tax would be deadly to this strategy and ambition. in this context, the results of the Web Summit and startups would be swept into the trash can. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, the PSD cannot approve this initiative for a number of reasons: the Portuguese taxpayers would not have any relief from the tax burden they bear and they would certainly see increased costs resulting from the fact that the new tax is indirectly charged to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u51	What is "to be charged"? Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u52	Control, liquidate and charge, not being integrated into a wider range of countries, in order to avoid tax evasion and avoidance, would be impossible and inevitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u53	They define themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u54	The real danger of losing the possibility of integrating the group of leading countries into this technological revolution, which is at the critical and affirmation point for the future, would put us in a situation of isolation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what the Left Block Member said, the President of our party, the PSD leader in the European Parliament and the PSD leader in the Assembly of the Republic are unanimous in considering that it is necessary to relieve the tax burden. We can't create another tax to surpass the taxes we already have! The aim of the Left Block is to create more taxes; the objective of the PSD is to reduce taxes paid by Portuguese and not to take advantage of this increase in taxes to charge them even more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u55	So you see which side the PSD is on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u56	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, Mr. Deputies José Manuel Pureza, Pedro Mota Soares and Fernando Rocha Andrade to ask for clarifications. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u57	Mr President, I jointly respond to the three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u58	To this end, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u59	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, I believe that it is legitimate for us now to put the question of which side the PSD is on. Firstly, the PSD says this is a tax that will affect Portuguese taxpayers. This is a fantasy that you bring to this debate. It can only be a fantasy, because we're actually talking about Portuguese taxpayers called Google, Facebook, Amazon... in fact, the question is: are you and the PSD on the side of these digital communication giants or are they not? That is a question you have to answer. Secondly, he said: 'Well, taxing turnover and not taxing profits is a wrong option'. Certainly, Mr President, you have all the freedom to understand things that way. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the test which has been carried out in France, through someone from whom you will be, I believe, close to the political point of view — Emmanuel Macron — is just about turnover, not about profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u61	So which side is Mr. Deputy on? Are you on the side of Macron? Isn't he? It has to be defined! But above all, Mr President, I would like to ask you another question. Article 38 ( 4 ). the Constitution states the following : « The State shall ensure the freedom and independence of the media before the political power and economic power (...) », adding «(...) treating them and supporting them in a non-discriminatory manner (...) ». The question you ask is how we do this! Which side are we on? I know which side is Mr. President of the Republic. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has become public—I am not revealing anything that is not public—his position, saying that it was necessary to study what is done out there in relation to the large multinational platforms that use Portuguese media content, even knowing that it is a very unequal struggle, in order to have a compensation for what is done inside and which should be paid. Mr President of the Republic is clear in what he tells us. The Left Block is clear by pointing out as necessary the creation of a fund to support the payment burden, to support the signing of newspapers and magazines for all 11 students. the e of the 12. the years of schooling. That's a way we have to do it! What is the PSD position? What is the PSD proposal to comply with Article 38 ( 4 ). the Constitution? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u62	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to request clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u63	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Crispo, I think it was Henry Louis Mencken that one day he said that «all problems have a simple, easy and wrong answer». It seems to me that for this problem, which is really a problem, what the Left Block does is to present a'simple, easy' answer, but at the same time 'wrong'. In fact, this is almost a recipe that, throughout Europe, we see being widely used by more populist, more extremist parties and that we know that they are even having some success from an electoral point of view. On this subject, Mr President, I would like to raise three different questions. The first has to do with the idea, which begins to go through some benches on the left, including the Socialist Party's bench, that there are a kind of taxes that are not paid by taxpayers, that are not paid by people, that are a kind of ethereal tax, paid by non-indistinct entities, that are not contributors to the State budget. Now, I remember one of these proposals by the Socialist Party in the State Budget for 2017, which was called « subsoil occupancy rate », a rule that said that the occupation rate of the subsoil was paid by companies and not by taxpayers. But what do we see in our electricity bill? Each of the taxpayers to pay the occupancy rate of the basement! That is why this idea that there are taxes paid by companies and that do not affect the consumer, about the final taxpayer, seems to me to be a bit of a wandering idea. But I would like to hear from the honourable Member about this. Mr President, I would like to raise a second question. I am one of those who thinks that there is today, in Portugal, a very serious but very serious problem in our social communication. Not only in Portugal, but throughout Europe, there is unfortunately today the great problem of knowing how it is possible to finance social communication groups in a world where we increasingly need credible, transparent and independent information. This has to do with absolutely essential rules from the point of view of the fulfilment of what is the democratic rule of law. I am sincerely concerned about this matter! Interestingly, in the State budget for this year, the CDS proposed and the Social Democratic Party accompanied—but I would like to ask about it—the payment of the incentives for social communication, which, as you remember, were not paid in 2016. The CDS proposed an increase in this same amount to be paid this year, the PSD has accompanied us, but curiously, the Left Block, which is so concerned about this matter, how did you vote? He voted against! I would also ask you, if you could, to speak a little about this. Mr President, I would like to ask you one last question. Obviously, we know that there is a regulatory dimension at European level to somehow not allow large digital platforms to cannibalize content that is produced, often at a high cost, because it involves paying journalists, research work, writing. Often these large platforms, unique and exclusively, cannibalize these same contents! As you know, a directive on this subject is currently under discussion in the European Parliament in relation to Article 11. the, which concerns exactly this matter, how did the Left Block vote? He voted against! The PSD, by chance, voted in favour of the CDS too, because we are concerned about this matter. I would therefore ask you to also comment on the enormous contradiction of the things that the Left Block says and then on the things that the Left Block does. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u64	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cristóvão Crespo, I have noted that the first two PSD interventions are critical, which I think is very unfair, to this tax, when they say that the tax burden increases. As I am convinced that the revenue of this tax—is an bold forecast for me—it is zero if there is criticism that this tax will not deserve to increase the tax burden. But there is one curious thing: the European People's Party, of which the PSD is part, in its electoral manifesto to Europeans, by chance, defends this tax as a European mechanism and I think it would already have the virtuality to increase the tax burden. So one of two: or it is the case of the honourable Member, in this particular case, until he agrees with the increase in the tax burden proposed by the Left Block or, then, are presenting himself to the European elections with a manifesto with which they do not agree and are harassing the voters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u66	To reply, Mr Crisóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, a few minutes ago, I spoke for 5 or 6 minutes, but you did not hear anything about what I said, because if you had listened, you would not have asked the questions you raised. Mr President, the concerns of the PSD Parliamentary Group are essentially with the Portuguese and the high tax burden they suffer. Recently, the Left Block said there was a PSD solution and a Left Block solution. No, it's a solution to treat Portuguese better. In fact, the speech of the honourable Member shows the ignorance of the mechanisms that this tax would create. Mr President, when you had the opportunity to join the PSD to help resolve the problems of social communication, within the State budget, the Left Block Parliamentary Group voted against. We do not realize this late concern about culture and the press which you have expressed, because it is not in fact consistent with what you have supported in the last State budget. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised and to tell you that we are communicating from your perspective. In fact, we had positions consistent with these concerns in the last State budget, in which any of our parties put forward proposals to resolve these issues. In fact, with regard to social communication, we are concerned about how it works, as well as the conditions and the new market in which it lives. At the last State Budget, we gave the best proof that we are concerned. Mr Rocha Andrade, given the questions you have raised, I am sure you have not heard my speech either or you have not been attentive. [[Rice from PS, BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u68	Nobody heard anything! I don't think your bench heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u69	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a year ago — he did yesterday or a year ago — he brought the problem of European taxes to a solution. It is only going to read the press and verify that Mr. Prime Minister brought the European tax solution. And I am surprised that at this time I am putting the issue at this level, because in fact the PSD position is quite clear on this issue and is consistent, both at the level of the President of the Party and of the European Parliament, and at the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u70	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u71	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Taxes, in addition to the central objective of financing the State budget and its political, economic and social choices, still play an important distributive role in ensuring a fairer and more equitable distribution of national wealth. in recent decades, this redistributive function has been challenged by successive governments of PS, PSD and CDS by opting for a promotion of large incomes, large estates and large profits. This promotion of large capital was particularly emphasized in the previous government, PSD / CDS-PP, which at the same time led to a brutal increase in taxes on labour income and household consumption, reduced the tax rate on business profits and placed many tax planning instruments at the disposal of large companies and economic groups so that they could pay less taxes. Another fiscal policy is needed, a fiscal policy that will put an end to the promotion of large capital by appropriately paying tribute to large companies and economic groups, including digital companies. This is due to the adoption of measures that hinder aggressive tax planning, which are widely used by these companies to steal from the payment of taxes due; the elimination of multiple and generous tax benefits; the application of more appropriate rates to the mega profits of large companies, multinationals, or the adoption of measures that prevent or at least hinder the relocation of profits to countries, territories or regions with more favourable tax systems; the fight without obstacles to tax havens which, as we know, are privileged places of tax evasion and money laundering; and the establishment and application of the principle that profits must be taxed in the countries where they are generated. These are just and necessary measures, which the CFP has been proposing for a long time, but which have always found great resistance on the part of the PSD, the CDS and also the PS, arguing that these measures cannot be applied at the level of each country because they would result in the relocation of capital to countries with more permissive tax regimes. This is the argument of whom you want to do nothing, which is also in the speech of the honourable Members. PSD Members Leonel Costa and Crespo Cristóvão. Recognizing that the success of certain measures, such as the dismantling of tax havens, depends on the degree of international collaboration that can be achieved, we believe that the need for such international collaboration cannot serve as a pretext to perpetually postpone appropriate tax measures of the great capital, it cannot be used to place the fascia of international collaboration so high that such taxation will never be realized. Those who do not want the large capital to be properly taxed, but who do not dare to defend this position openly, find refuge in the demand of international articulation, preferably so wide and deep that it is virtually impossible to achieve. With this hypocritical speech, solutions will be postponed, at the same time that they appear to be committed to solving the problems. from the CFP, we reaffirm our position: the search for cooperation with other countries, in particular the European Union and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), should not delay the adoption of measures at national level. Portugal must have an active role at the international level, contributing actively to the construction of solutions, to the elimination of tax havens and to the deepening of the fight against tax elision carried out by large companies, in particular multinational companies. At the same time, however, it must take measures at internal level that contribute to a more adequate taxation of large capital, such as those proposed by the CFP. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we follow the proposal that BE brings today the debate, although some aspects of this proposal give us doubts, namely the value chosen for the rate of tax on digital services or the option for the appropriation of tax revenue. The proposed value for the rate of 3 % is that of the proposal for a European Council Directive on the common system of taxes on digital services. in the European Parliament, the Members of the CFP presented a proposal—unfortunately rejected—to allow each Member State to set its rate freely. The 3 % of the European Commission and BE seem to be short. We think we could go further in the taxing of digital service giants. Also, BE's option for issuing digital services tax deserves our reservation. Here is not the concrete entity that would benefit from this provision, but rather the general principle, defended by the CFP, of non-taxation. We understand that the use of tax revenue, which is a revenue from the State budget, should not be conditional on departure and must first result from the political, economic and social options that each Government makes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u72	Although, in several State budgets, one or another example of recorded taxes can be found, this is not the practice in Portugal, so we believe that any new provision lacks adequate weighting. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defeat of the former Government, PSD / CDS, in the 2015 legislative elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u73	We won! We have won the elections, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u74	... marked the beginning of a new phase in national political life, which, with the intervention and decisive contribution of the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u75	We know they like to rewrite the story, but we've won!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u76	... allowed some progress in tax matters. I refer, for example, to the elimination of the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), the increase in the number of steps and the reduction of rates of this tax, the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI (municipal property tax ), the elimination of the special payment on account, the reduction of VAT (value added tax) of the restoration, the introduction of a new tax on real estate and the limitation of some tax benefits for large capital. Despite positive and pointing out in the right direction, these measures are limited and badly touched in the interests of the great capital. This is due to the choice of the PS and its government not to confront these interests. Portugal needs another fiscal policy, which breaks with the promotion of large profits, large wealth and large incomes, a fiscal policy which guarantees more justice and equity. And it's because of this alternative fiscal policy that the CFP is fighting. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u77	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings up an important issue and issue. I do not think it is, however, an important proposal. And the proposal is not important — let us begin there — because, as I have just mentioned, the likely tax revenue of this tax is zero, which is why it does not deserve this criticism of the tax burden, as we do not deserve to be overly concerned about the question of the fate of the revenue and the good that the revenue could do if recorded, because — there it is! — I don't think there was any revenue. Although it should be added here, for the benefit of Mr Leonel Costa, that our Budget Framework Act does not provide for an absolute ban on the provision; precisely, it provides for the possibility of exception when the law especially does so. Therefore, the bill will deserve many criticisms, but not that of having this inconformity with the Budget Framework Law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u79	But let us, then, address this serious problem which is subject to the proposal, which is the problem of the taxation of digital services. The nature of the problem is relatively identified. There is a set of services—and it is a growing set of services—such as content, audio and video streaming, the advertising we see in browsers and social networks, the sale of services through digital means, in which the economic activity of a company aimed at consumers who are located in a given State dispenses any kind of presence — of those who traditionally use tax law as a connection to the tax — in the territory of destination. This is what has been called « digital presence ». But digital presence is not a physical presence, it is not a legal presence and therefore there is no element of connection. And since there is no element of connection, national tax has no reality to tax. It also happens that these activities are highly mobile.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u80	And so what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u81	Like everything that does not have physical reality, it can truly, as mere legal construction, be operating from anywhere. And, being operating from anywhere, in an area of freedom of movement of persons and capital, there is always a tax regime anyone who offers these activities the most favorable taxation,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u82	... that is, tends to be zero taxation. And it is in this jurisdiction that this activity will be located. We are thus left with the well-known problem of double non-taxation. Neither the tax system of the head office of the tax activity nor the tax regime where consumers are taxed. Our problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely that there is no connection between our planning and the tax base. In other words — and to simplify — in Portugal there is no one to apply the tax. Therefore, I do not believe that the country needs a new tax to tax these profits, because the same reasons that prevent current taxes from operating, i.e. the lack of connection, the existence of those who tax, will also prevent these new taxes from functioning. If we could unilaterally proclaim, in the face of companies based abroad, where the tax base is located, then we did not need any tax! We set a standard in the IRC Code (the income tax of legal persons) to say that the revenues of a company located abroad resulting from purchases of residents in Portugal would be attributed to a stable establishment, which would be fictional and would be located in Portugal, and we had the IRC to tax these companies — all, not only those whose turnover exceeds EUR 750 million — and we had the problem solved. Why don't you do that? Because this rule, in our IRC Code, would be as ineffective as the rules proposed by the Left Block. It is that even if the definitions of jurisdiction or the definitions of location of the operation did not barge on the issues which my comrade Fernando Anastácio recently raised, of bilateral conventions and multilateral treaties, they would bar on a question of much more difficult resolution, which is the fact that there is neither the possibility to impose duties or to charge taxes to those who have no physical or legal presence in Portugal. Therefore, in practice, this tax is not good, it does not serve its purpose. In theory, is it a good tax, which, by chance, in practice, does not work? Nor does it seem to me that, in theory, it is a good tax, for one reason: in theory, what works really is the double design that the European Commission has put forward. They are rules on the allocation of taxable bases to the various countries that allow each country's tax to function. That is, they are rules that allow, when Amazon or Google do business in which advertising is shown in Portugal or where the buyer lives in Portugal, the taxable base is located in Portugal. And our IRC would apply-CL to that base. Then there is a second tax, a tax of overlap—which only makes sense, in fact, as a tax of overlap and coexisting with the IRCs of the various countries of the European Union—which, being on the first of these taxes, would only tax giants. And the revenue from this tax on giants would then be a European recipe. This drawing makes sense. The design of having a unilaterally defined tax, which is a turnover tax, makes no sense. If it is to make unrealistic proposals that do not work, let us not complicate and make a unrealistic proposal that does not work within IRC, rather than make a unrealistic proposal that does not work, inventing a new tax. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as resources are scarce, time is limited and it is not worth making our tax administration agents try to apply taxes to entities that are not subject to our jurisdiction, nor will they be, unless we move on to ensure that our fiscal policy is accompanied by airborne divisions, then it makes no sense to vote favourably on this proposal from the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u83	The Bureau recorded two entries for requests for clarification to Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade. Mr. Deputy, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u84	Mr. President, I will respond in the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u85	All right. Thus, for the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u86	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, I confess that I was anxious to hear, because I thought that of all the Members and Members in this Chamber would be the one who would know even more the details that would allow to justify why this tax is possible and worth it. Several of the aspects in which I cemented this belief I've seen them. First, they said that it was impossible to tax, for example, the digital game. Mr President, he took part in the Government's work to ensure that the dematerialization of cases, the taxation of companies from outside the country, foreign entities, would be guaranteed, and this is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u87	Exactly. Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u88	For this reason, a large part of your argument now failed with this concrete reality. Secondly, he said that there should be a distribution of corporate revenue on a global scale. Now, he was in the government when Portugal signed the Multilateral Convention to Prevent Taxable Base Erosion and Transfer of Things, which guarantees exactly that and which was proposed by the OECD, submitted by the Government in and approved by the Assembly of the Republic. Now, this was another problem solved, exactly, by a treaty signed by Portugal. A later question: Mr Fernando Anastácio said that we were going to copy what Spain has done. Mr President, Spain was to copy what the European Commission had done and therefore we said from the outset that our analysis was based on OECD studies, studies of the European Union and the European Commission proposal. Would we like it to be at European level? Yes, and even more, we think it should be on an international scale. But there is a problem, which is called politics, national interests. So who now uses this argument for nothing to do is saying that it is Germany that sends and, therefore, that they will dance the music that Germany plays, even if it costs the Portuguese taxpayers, who are always the sacrificed ones, because the big ones are not paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u89	Of course! [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u90	But more, honourable Member : So, Pedro Sanches is an idealist? Emmanuel Macron is an idealist? [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u92	Are Spain and France going to have zero revenue from this tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u94	Is Portugal isolated or is there an alignment of countries that say 'no' to these giants and say 'no' to this German interest? This is the bottom line.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u96	Mr Deputies, is this PS position, after all, a censorship to the PSOE? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u97	For a request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u98	Mr President, Mr Rocha Andrade, first of all I must point out that the Socialist Party opposes this Left Block initiative, because a party which is the essence of a government which has increased 34 taxes, taxes and contributions has beaten all tax records and has placed the Portuguese to give, without precedent, a share of its income to the State, could once again succumb to the voracious and irresistible temptation to join a useless and ineffective Left Block initiative, in the hope that this would translate into some revenue. But in this regard, Mr Rocha Andrade, with clear clarity and an aspect of border which we must recognise, was absolutely categorical. He said, in a round way: "No, tax is useless, it is ineffective, revenue would be zero". And here's the unidentified mystery: the PS is against because the recipe would be zero. That's why PS is against it. [[PSD applause.]] But it is not surprising, Mr. Rocha Andrade, that the PS is against this tax and in Europe supports the agenda of Commissioner Moscovich, which aims to replace the rule of unanimity in Council decisions by the rule of majority and thereby diminishes Portugal and upholds the tax sovereignty of this Parliament. This, yes, deserves reflection and that is where our position differs from that of the PS. We understand that such a tax makes sense if it results in a combination of free and autonomous options from the countries of the European Union and, hopefully, at least from the OECD, even for matters of competitiveness and tax fraud, while the PS says it makes sense without all countries agreeing. That is, when Mário Centeno assumes to be against the rule of unanimity for the creation of new taxes, the PS is telling the Portuguese, nothing less, that they must pay that tax and that it must be applied, even if the representatives of the Portuguese and their government are against that tax. [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u99	It's called this music!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u100	If the proposal presented here by the Left Block was adopted at the European Council, with the vote against Portugal, by a majority of countries, the position of the PS and the Portuguese Government would be irrelevant. We are against this thesis, we do not subscribe to it, we want our fiscal autonomy and therefore we want the Socialist Party, on this occasion, to give this explanation to the Portuguese, so that it does not say something there and there. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u101	To reply, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u102	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, let me start with you. It is interesting that you come to the issue of sovereignty, because from the beginning of this debate we are talking about our inability to tax activities that, in practice, occur in our territory but that, because they are legally located outside, we have not succeeded. Now Mr Cristovão Norte says: "So it is sovereignty! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, this is the sovereignty of the eunuch, who cannot really exercise, although in theory it has much sovereignty! [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Mr President, as you know, the exercise we do in European construction is a tradeoff in these terms: if we demand the veto power for every thing that happens, we will grant everyone else — all Luxembourg, all of Malta, all of Cyprus, all of Germany or all of Poland — the same veto power over what we want. This is one of those images where there's a set of quadrupeds trying to pull the car in the various directions and the carriage won't go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Sir, if you would allow me to keep answering you... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] I know you're more interested in doing a little rustling, it's kind of a veto on my intervention. So, honourable Member, what... [[Protests by PSD Member Cristovão Norte and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u104	Sir, I just didn't want you to...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u105	Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, will you excuse me? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also suspended in the floor hoping that the conditions will be managed in the Chamber so that Mr Rocha Andrade can continue to use the floor to answer the questions asked to him. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is just because I didn't really want to turn the debate into a scream, trying to get me over the voice of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. So our point is very simple. As in other areas, there are central European objectives that go through better tax justice. The honourable Member has no doubt! The reason I am against this tax, as it is proposed, is because it doesn't take anywhere, because I, in a tax justice theory, which I think is acceptable, would prefer that Google and Facebook pay the same IRC that pay the companies that hold the Express or the TVI when they pass advertising. This is what I think is a good distribution of tax revenue, but what we have is that there are some who pay because our tax law comes there and there are others who do not pay. Mr President, when I intend to defend the idea, which is fair, that the tax law must be distributed by all, the Member reacts hysterically, saying: "Oh, there comes an increase in the tax burden! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” When we propose a mechanism that will allow the European Union to move faster to cover up these forms of escape, he shouts hysterically: "Oh, sovereignty! » Sovereignty, as we have seen, is totally useless when it comes to making this taxation, which, as I have already said, is the sovereignty of the eunuch. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, since 1640 who, in this country, has ceased to be a sin, disagree with the views or proposals of the Government of Madrid. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] In fact, I do not agree, but let me tell you one thing: Italy, in two years, already goes into two of these taxes and none is in force; Spain, in four years, already goes into two of these taxes and revenue; France and the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u107	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u108	Mr. Deputies, really, the only thing Spain has managed was that Google Spain has stopped being in Spain, it has not achieved much more. Therefore, I am not convinced by your legal arguments that treaties allow this unilateral definition. Can you show me a country where this tax already exists, is it already in force, is it regulated and is it working? Not really! This is a unicorn: there is much talk about him but there is nowhere! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u109	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I was delighted to hear this extraordinary debate between the PS and the Left Block, in which the PS explains to the Left Block why its tax proposals give zero revenue and the Left Block explains to the PS why the PS passed this legislation to vote and sign tax proposals that give zero revenue. This was so much as a grace that it was not these two parties responsible for the majority who in this Parliament approved the greatest tax burden of all time. It is that if, in fact, as you accuse each other, taxes that create only zero revenue, the Portuguese would not now be faced with the greatest tax burden of all time and paying the highest tax revenue of all time, the responsibility of a Socialist Party government, supported in all budgets by the Left Block. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block brings us today a project which is, according to the title, a « tax on certain digital services ». I would say, keeping the spirit, that it is a kind of new chapter of a tax sack that we already know. The Left Block tries, once again, to create a tax to go for more income you don't know who. You don't know, but you'll know, we'll discuss that. By analyzing the project in concrete, it has three essential problems: to be unilateral; to be recessive, if possible to realize it; and to be totally inefficient. The fact that it is unilateral is because the Left Block does the board of all the studies, whether from the OECD or the European Union, say about harmonisation or fiscal coordination. We can discuss whether there is more sense that there is fiscal harmonisation and whether there is a European tax or whether it is feasible that there is coordination and that each country has its own mechanism—in fact, we do not, the Left Block, which thinks there must be this type of tax. In other words, anyone who thinks that there should be a tax in these terms may have one of these two options, but what no one claims is that it is possible for each State to create its own tax and from there to be able to withdraw some revenue, because there is unanimity in doctrine: that is totally ineffective. That is to enter into a logic in which some of the politicians that Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke about recently, which is, having no response to the problems facing their societies, constantly inventing supposed taxes to promote a supposed social cohesion that is completely fictitious and has no practical result. Then the recessive effect would be obvious. We are just talking about one of the most dynamic sectors of the current economy and the question is not just to discuss how it gets more. I am sorry, in this Parliament, there are those who want to discuss whether it makes sense to pay specifically, autonomously and aggravatedly a sector of the economy such as the digital economy. We are talking about more than 5 % of national GDP, we have invested in Portugal to attract investment in this area and we are now suddenly talking about taxing this sector of the economy. It's wrong! Even if it were viable, it would be totally wrong! It would have an effect on the economy which would be totally undesirable. And then this tax, to be created, would also be inefficient. Mr. Luís Monteiro said in his presentation: "Well, we're not talking about consumers, we're not talking about final customers. We are talking about online advertising». Mr President, then if online advertising is discouraged and difficult, who do you think will then pay more for the services? Who's gonna pay more for the services? Oh, my God! If there is no advertising or if advertising pays less, who will compensate for this revenue? On intermediation platforms, the platforms that citizens use in their daily lives, if they create a tax on companies that have such platforms, who do you think will pay that tax? Are the companies that have the platforms or that tax will be impacted on the final price of the service and will it be consumers? This idea that the taxes created by the left and especially the taxes created by the Left Block are not paid by anyone or are paid by Martians is an idea that makes no sense. The taxes, in particular these, are paid, of course, by whom, in order to make use of the service, ends up paying, with all the externalities which are charged at the final price, including those of the taxes. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal, according to the Left Block, is to create a tax on certain and certain digital services, but what is certain is that, with this proposal, the Left Block, if technically able to make a good proposal, increased the tax burden even more. And what is also right, and it does not fail to be extraordinary from the ideological point of view, is that the Left Block, which likes to be part of all the progressive vanguards, ends up here having a deeply reactionary measure: if there is a dynamic economy, if there is innovation, if there are consumers who want this innovation, takes a tax there to crush this sector of the economy and to prevent people from accessing it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u111	Crushing to Google? Smash Facebook?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u112	No, Mr. Deputies, it's not the companies. These services exist because they are provided to people who naturally want to enjoy them. What you are looking for is precisely limiting access to these services. Finally, it is true that, if this tax existed, it was actually the taxpayers who would pay it, it would not be these giants that you, totally demagogically, say, because, as has already been said, they cannot appoint a country where these companies pay a hundred dollars of such tax. Therefore, for a unilateral, inefficient, recessive and technically inexhaustible proposal, of course, what is true, too, is a lead of the same initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u113	Mr. João Almeida, you have a request for clarification from Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr João Almeida for his speech, because, in fact, it allows us to put the question back to the CDS-PP on which side it is in this debate and, now, to put back the debate where he really is and not in a stratosphere, where several Members and several benches have already wanted to put it, on whom it is going to pay, and what will happen to Facebook or Google users, who are apparently going to be harmed. in Europe, at present each user of these digital platforms generates 10 euros or 11 dollars on average per year of revenue for these giants. So we are talking about data that is generated by us, by each of us who is sitting here, by everyone who uses digital platforms and is being stolen, not only in data but also in wealth that is generated from our use of these social networks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u116	So what we are proposing is that, if it is our data, of all Portuguese and Portuguese that generate this astronomical wealth for these companies, it can in fact also be redistributed, then, in the Portuguese economy. That's what's at stake. But there are more figures that need to be put in the debate. What we are proposing in the bill is 3 %, which is apparently an enormity for a giant like Google, see for yourself! Google, for example, had 32 billion dollars of revenue, only in advertising, in the last quarter. I'm going to repeat, $32 billion in revenue, just in advertising, in the last quarter. Mr President, as the CDS understands, we are talking about a recipe in 90 days equivalent to what would cost 64 submarines.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u117	You see? Oh, my God! So many submarines!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u118	So what matters is whether the CDS-PP is on the side of anyone who wants to redistribute wealth and get money to taxes, wealth that is due to the Portuguese—to me, Mr. Deputies, everyone who uses digital platforms and generates wealth. It is that all of us, with any click we make, are generating wealth that is being stolen from our country. So the question remains, which side is the CDS-PP? on the side that you want to make taxes properly charged in our country or on the side of who wants to make the digital economy a great offshore in Europe? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u119	You now have a word to answer, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, first of all, for the purposes of context alone, I would like to say that the honourable Member is out of date in terms of unit account. The unit of account for this type of material today is more 'Robles building'. So next time, you have to say how many "Robles buildings" is that it gives the revenue of these companies, so that the citizens understand, because it is a more current unit of account and it tells the Portuguese more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u121	People remember, sir! Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can speak freely because I'm not the one I love and feel. You can make the noise you want me to answer in the same way. So there's no problem. The gentlemen. They ask which side is the CDS. It is very simple: on the side of freedom. on the side of freedom of those who develop economic activity and on the side of freedom of those who want to use the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u123	on the side of Google and Facebook!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u124	You are always on the side of the State, which charges, which limits, which prevents you from allowing access. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the world, with the digital economy, is a world that you may not understand as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u125	Maybe we understand better than you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u126	The freedom that the digital economy allows to each citizen may not be very favourable to the ideas that you defend, but it is also because there is this digital economy, because there is this freedom and because there is one in this Parliament who fights so that on every matter that moves there was no new tax that this proposal that you present will fall. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u127	That's not freedom, it's stealing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u128	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo, from the PSD, has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us see if we can explain the PSD position on this Left Block initiative. [[BE's laughter and protests.]] It's not to be doubted! We all recognize that the digitalisation of the economy brings new and major challenges to taxation. Our taxation has always been thought of more from a tangible asset point of view than from intangible assets, but the world has changed and we are increasingly in a virtual world, in an intangible world. We are all aware that the digitisation of the economy causes both an erosion of the taxable base and a greater ease in the relocation of profits. in that, I think we all agree. This recognition of this aspect, that technological innovation in conjunction with the expansion of markets raises challenges to international tax law, has brought this issue into the political agendas of various countries and international organisations such as the OECD and the European Union. But the digital economy has unique characteristics, such as geographical mobility, both at the level of production and at the level of marketing and at the level of distribution. This new economy brought a new dimension to the concept of stable establishment, different from the one we were used to, becoming itself almost virtual and intangible, and also brought a new form of relationship between economic agents and between them and consumers, causing the so-called network effects, in which decisions of a user may reflect benefits to another user, or also producing new multifaceted business models, such as advertising, along with online sales or the provision of information. Therefore, given the change that is taking place in the way in which business is increasingly carried out in our economic activity, in which innovation emerges rapidly and steadily, taxation, direct and indirect, has to change, needs to modernize, needs to adjust, under the penalty of becoming obsolete.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u130	So, what are we staying on?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u131	You'll understand, Mr. Deputies. But what the Left Block presents us here today, with its bill, is no more than an attempt to create a new tax, for a new economy, but with old sins. The creation of new taxes has always been a matter of great appreciation by the left parties. Your philosophy is always to tax, to tax everything that moves, that doesn't move and that can move. The PSD reaffirms that it is enough to increase the tax burden. The level of taxation of our economy is already too high! Therefore, any creation of new taxes must always have as a basic principle or the replacement or reformulation of other existing taxes, never jeopardising the principles of justice and fiscal fairness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u132	If they don't pay any!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u133	in this sense, it is obvious that we recognize the need for this whole digital economy also to be taxed. And it must be fair, fair, fair to companies themselves and fair to society and to taxpayers. however, the taxation of the digital economy can only be effective and efficient, and it would even be feasible if treated at a supranational level. in a global, virtual, intangible world, without borders, trying to find tax solutions within borders will of course only lead to ineffective solutions and bring more discretion and possibly even more tax injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u134	You don't understand! Come next!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u135	Taxation situations for the digital isolationist economy, thought in haste, with little rational and with more than doubtful objectives, as is the case with the provision of revenues proposed by the Left Block, can only have its opposition on the part of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u136	Tell that to Paulo Rangel!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u137	When they want to discuss this issue seriously, the PSD will be available for this debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to create conditions in the room so that speakers who are using the floor can be heard in good condition. Mr Margarida Marques, from the PS, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that the Left Block has scheduled this point allows us to debate in Parliament the issue of taxes on digital companies and services. And it is good to be doing this debate after we discussed here on Friday's agenda the theme of the European Commission's proposal « Towards a more effective and democratic decision-making process within the framework of the European Union's fiscal policy ». It's just that this is a paradigmatic case. It says the Left Block, in its draft law, referring to the current state of art at European level, that « (...) there is no political will to take this step,... » — i.e. a new form of taxation of the digital economy that is more fair and equitable — «... providing the multinationals of the digital economy with the maintenance of its fiscal leak ». And it goes on to say: « Particularly at European level, we are witnessing a halt to the process of creating a form of taxation of digital economy multinationals because several national interests are placed in front of a collective solution ». In March 2018, the European Commission presented a package on digital, the Digital Tax Package, also mentioned in the explanatory statement of this bill of the Left Block. This package includes two proposals for directives: one which'lays down rules on the taxation of companies with a digital presence', which allows Member States themselves to pay for this activity as well as my colleague Rocha Andrade has already referred to ; and another 'on the common system of tax on digital services applicable to the revenues of certain digital services'. In March, the European Commission proposed to the governments of the Member States a 3 % tax on the online revenue of large digital companies. Ministers failed to reach an agreement to ensure that large technology companies pay a minimum tax level, and France and Germany submitted a new proposal to tax at least the revenues that companies obtain through online advertisements. The European Commission amends the proposal for a directive on the creation of a single tax on online advertising services, maintaining the rate of 3 % and providing for its application from January 2021. A clear retreat concerning the European Commission's initial proposal, but seeking a minimum consensus. The European Commission said that it would be a temporary « quick thinking » until a broader solution is reached among members of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). But the issue continues to divide the Member States of the European Union, which discussed the tax at the meeting of the Finance Ministers in Brussels on Tuesday. Why didn't there be a robust decision on the creation of a digital tax? Because these decisions are now taken unanimously! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there is always a country that prefers not to tax digital companies—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u140	Germany!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u141	...and in this case, I'm not even thinking in Germany. If we look closely at the panorama, particularly the GAFAM ( Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft ), we understand well the inavailability of some Member States of the European Union, in fact easily identifiable, that will have a lot of difficulty in giving their vote to a digital tax. But this tax is necessary for fair taxation on the 'European scale' — we have no doubt about it and the Left Block does not seem to have, as it makes clear in its explanatory statement. Indeed, digital companies are essentially global companies. Any initiative at national level is reducing and does not solve the problem. It is not enough to be a « quick thinking». [[Congrats from PS Members.]] I would like to remind you that the Portuguese Government, with the governments of other Member States, with the European institutions, has urged the European Commission to move forward at a faster pace than that which was being followed in the OECD, in the search for a comprehensive and definitive solution to the taxation of the digital economy. With short-term solutions, if necessary, but always seeking a coordinated solution from the European Union for the taxation of digital services. This bill, as a unilateral initiative, raises us, therefore, the greatest reservations. Finally, this bill is totally different from a necessary strategic objective, in the sense that the revenue from this taxation of the digital economy ( as a coordinated solution adopted by all Member States ) has potential and should serve to provide robust funding for the European Union's budget, if we want it to be redistributive and that there are no cuts in cohesion funds or the CAP ( common agricultural policy ). In addition, as has also been mentioned by my colleague, Rocha Andrade, the power of competitive distortions, with harmful effects at national level and within the framework of the single market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is also important to say that, on the side of the CFP, this specific proposal raises doubts, in particular as regards the destination of the press and literature fund for the media, which is dedicated to direct support for the media, that this specific proposal raises doubts on the part of the CFP, which is related to the fact that economic groups of the sector which themselves are also responsible for many of the situations in this sector can be financed. Although there is in the BE proposal the reference to the local and regional press, there is no longer a door to support the large groups, which we cannot fail to signal. It is enough to think of the most recent situation of an economic group in this sector, of which hundreds of workers are expected to be fired, including many journalists. When you fire journalists and other media professionals, when you reduce editorials and encourage precariousness and low wages, you don't use it, you don't help the print and digital press. Those who are left are already doing digital work and paper at the same time. They will now have to do the job of two or three more who, in the meantime, will leave. This serves, yes, shareholders and those who accumulate more wealth and power in the promotion and dissemination of information and diverse content. We cannot have this discussion that we are doing today without putting the need to combat the precariousness that exists, the low wages that prevail, the carousel of dismissal and work to the part, the imposition of work rhythms incompatible with the necessary confirmation of information that guarantee the rigor of the news, a degradation of the working conditions of journalists and other professionals in the social and media sector in general, a degradation of information quality and rigor, and also a reduction of pluralism, with profound negative consequences for society. On technological developments, including developments in digital technology, the question is who is serving and who is serving. We cannot therefore make this discussion, on digital, misinformation and social communication, without talking about the necessary fight that must be done at the concentration of these sectors in the hands of half a dozen economic groups. The concern that the CFP has is not only with the multinationals of the so-called 'digital economy' or with its tax payments alone, it is also with the monopoly power that they can exercise on the information and content that is produced and disseminated. It is also a matter of concern to concentrate the ownership of the media in a handful of economic groups. in our country, five groups dominate, directly or indirectly, more than one hundred of the main media communication bodies in the press, radio, television and digital. They are the owners of information, being increasingly present foreign capital and private bank in its shareholder structure. One of the central issues is this: those who hold the production of information and various content; those who hold their distribution and access to that same information or content; and, above all, what interests these digital owners and, now, non-digital ones serve. It is that these interests will be to determine the action of these groups, whether in the algorithms created or in the production of content, whether in the production of information, misinformation or in the manipulation of the news. The way of deepening the concentration of media ownership and the control by multinationals of the media and digital information line constitute a serious threat to pluralism, press freedom, expression and information. These are issues that cannot be left apart in this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u144	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of two hours, what can we conclude from this debate? We can conclude that at the leftmost bench of this Chamber there is a political party that is fiscally insatiable and that once again has proved to be a doctrinal political party. But let's go somewhere. We all know — and it has already been mentioned several times this afternoon — that the digital sector is dominated by American multinationals and that the other States have difficulty in taxing the services and goods provided online by these multinationals and other companies in their respective territories. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the whole economy — I insist, the whole economy — is permeated by the digital sector. And if so — and we know that it is — the solution must necessarily be found in a wider space, which is naturally superior to one State. That is why the future of the international rules of taxation on the digital economy is currently being discussed in the OECD inclusive framework, which adds 113 countries. There is no doubt for anyone: any country that decides to advance unilaterally will simply compromise the growth of the digital economy in its own territory. This is obvious to all. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u146	The Left Block knows that it is, but that circumstance is totally indifferent to it. And he is totally indifferent to it, because for the Block, wealth, come from where it comes from, must simply be appropriate by the State. The Left Block loves to create taxes! [[BE's protests.]] And this tax, according to which it is presented to us, to the wake of any international technical study, in clear violation of the budgetary framework law, unilaterally, is the face of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u147	Study, study!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u148	This is the Left Block that likes, as I say, to create taxes. For this reason, because it is a party that likes to create taxes, it supports a government that is even more or less the champion of the tax burden in Portugal, the champion of the tax collection in Portugal. The Left Block counter-argument, in the midst of so much confusion that goes there,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] ... that the creation of this new tax will be used to finance the written press. The Block is today concerned about the financing of the written press, but, a few months ago, when discussing the State Budget Bill for 2019, it voted against the proposals submitted by the Social Democratic Party — and there were four — as it voted against the proposals submitted by the CDS-PP in the same sense. But, still on this point, knowing that the Left Block, always treed in its supposed moral superiority, loves to teach Portuguese, where even the greatest ideological eccentricities escape,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u149	Eccentricities? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u150	... this is also Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal which, in this sense, makes us stand back. Yes! We stood back with this proposal! [[BE's protests.]] Coming from the Left Block, it is very high, I repeat, it is very high the probability of being faced with another attempt to doctrinalize the Portuguese thought, this time by way of a dictatorship of choice. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u151	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u152	Stealing the Portuguese is fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u153	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u154	Mr President, I am going on the fourth attempt, and I must be a little slow today because I still do not understand the PSD position. Let us see: if the PSD is against the tax itself, then it cannot support its creation at European level. If it supports its creation at European level and the argument is against unilaterality, then I do not see why we must accuse the Left Block of tax voracity! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u155	It is because it has been created at European level that it is effective and therefore would be the tax voracity of the PSD much greater than that of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u156	To reply, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u157	One more try!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rocha Andrade, I thought we had already been informed about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u160	The honourable Member is slow today! [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u161	The Social Democratic Party, in more than one intervention by my fellow bankers, was very clear in stating that, in this matter, there can be no unilateral decisions of any party... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u162	... and that their discussion and preparation must be done in a wider area, preferably at OECD level, which is what we in fact advocate, but the decision, of course, will compete with each Member State if, in particular, the discussion takes place at European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u163	It's simple and clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u164	It's as simple as this! Honestly, I don't see where the doubt is. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u165	That's fiscal opacity!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u166	Moreover—and we have always said so! — the creation of a new tax necessarily implies the reduction of other taxes. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] If not, the tax burden would rise or never come down.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u167	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u169	What we are defending is, in fact, the reduction in the tax burden, but this is only achieved by this way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further entries for speeches, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has been very important for us to understand who submits to those who are at the national political level. We know that, as far as defending the country and national interests, the PS has to invoke the year of 1640 to ensure that it is taken seriously. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] Otherwise, they would not hesitate to be worthy of German interests in the rejection of this tax on large digital companies. on the side of the PSD and the CDS there is an outrage, and little was left to start tearing the clothes, because— imagine! — we want to tax Google, Facebook, the big companies of the digital economy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u172	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u173	... and they say: "No, no! That's a tax draw, a tax draw! It can't be! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u174	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u175	If they were pensions, if they were wages, if they were the small increase in VAT, as they did in their government, that could already be.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u177	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u178	Now, in companies such as Google, which presented in the last quarter of 32 billion euros of billing in advertising, and Facebook, which presented 16 billion euros of billing in advertising, in these, cannot be touched.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u179	You can't pay taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u180	Ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, we well know that for you taxpayers are not all the same. Those who earn much always have the PSD and CDS lottery, while those who actually pay taxes, because they earn little, are always sacrificed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There was a consensus in this debate: there is a tax evasion scenario for large companies in the digital economy. There is a consensus, but what is being done about this? Nothing! It tells us the PS : « nothing can be done». The PSD tells us: « nothing can be done». And they tell us the CDS: « Nothing can be done». Is there a problem of sovereignty in our country? There! There is wealth created in our country that is being plundered to present millions of profits on a global scale. What do PS, PSD and CDS say about this? Nothing! « We can't do anything», they say! More: “We don’t want to do anything! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u181	That's not what they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u182	Why? Why? This answer, which is the key answer, was given by Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade. He said: "We can't do anything, because we're still going to see Google running away from our country. We can't do anything, because Spain tried to do and Google stopped thirsting in Spain ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u183	But our country is not Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u184	You can see how a multinational buys the favors of a country to ensure that it does not pay taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u186	That's right! That's how it happens. We do not accept this inevitability and do not accept it for something that, curiously, these benches should have some kind of sensitivity, because they repeat it, exhaustively: it is called, first, competition. Mr João Almeida said that this tax might call into question the digital economy, and I ask: which digital economy, Mr Almeida? The one that is already concentrated in the hands of Google, Facebook or Amazon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u187	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u188	The one who guarantees that no other company is growing because these really dominate the market? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u190	That's called oligopoly. After all, beat your chest to defend competition, but in practice they vote here for the oligopoly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u192	You can see: videos, for PSD, CDS and PS, are for Youtube and Facebook, but for the profits of Youtube and for the profits of Facebook. This is the big conclusion. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Sovereignty? Oh, my God! For what? Oh, my God! In the name of fiscal justice, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is that when we talk about defending taxpayers is to ensure that there are not some who pay and others who run away, it is to ensure that they all contribute to the extent of their wealth. Those who earn a lot, like Google and Facebook, do not pay in our country. That's what the ladies are about. Members are not only silent as they consent, and that is our great divergence. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What can we do to guarantee even more sovereignty in our country? What can we do to ensure that fake news campaigns, for example, do not also fat in our country, covered by any international power, speak Russian, Chinese or English? Oh, my God! What can we do to ensure that there is knowledge and information from the country that gives quality to our democracy? Oh, my God! It is curious that, when we say we have an exit here that costs nothing to any Portuguese taxpayer — nothing, zero! -,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...but that's going to get money to ensure that we have a quality social communication, which tells us the right and the PS is that they don't want it after all. They don't want anything, so that it's all the same, or they want something, and you don't know what it is, but guaranteed it's all the same. The PS realizes that the PSOE (Spanish Workers' Socialist Party ) and Pedro Sánchez do not know what they want; the PSD, which in other matters fills his mouth with Macron, now makes sure he does not know it;... [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u193	Macron? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u194	... the CDS, which says that it follows the entire cartilage of Mr. President of the Republic, in this matter, blows to the side. Now, curiously, the three entities that I have mentioned are exactly the same ones that have already defended solutions like the one we propose, which have an existence at the level of other countries, which guarantee the financing of the social communication, which guarantee the sovereignty of our country before a European inaction. On the unanimity of taxes, there is a question to which no one can answer: is there any unanimity — whether by majority, whether by consensus or at all — that exists in Europe and that goes against the interests of the Germans? The response of PS, PSD and CDS to this, I believe, is « nein », because in relation to these taxes they speak in German. This is the reality: who imposes the veto on this agenda on a European scale is Germany,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u195	Ireland!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u196	...to defend your exports against the tax erosion of our country. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u198	I conclude, Mr. President. When we get up to vote on this tax, this solution for the media, we'll actually see who wants campaigns against fake news, depending on an informed population, who wants to defend our social communication without instrumentalizing it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u199	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u200	... as we see, for example, through public support for advertising in time of elections, which the PS has just proposed in the days ahead, and who is the one who defends our sovereignty against European giants. We say 'yes'! We will see who says 'no'. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-20.u201	We reached the end of the debate on Bill No. 1123 / XIII / 4. a (BE) and we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, it is important to verify the existence of quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 203 presences, to which 2 are added, of the PSD Members Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria and Cristovão Norte, making a total of 205 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 1123 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates tax on certain digital services. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] Before we finish our work, I recall that we will have a plenary meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. with a PSD marking for the general debate of Bill No 1156 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the legal regime for public passenger rental activity in light passenger cars ( « taxi » ). Resolution Project No 2032 / XIII / 4 is also scheduled. a ( PAR) — First amendment to the Rules of Procedure for the Management of Performance in the Assembly of the Republic, approved by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 49 / 2015 of 8 May but without time for discussion. At the end of the debate, we will proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I thank everyone for your cooperation and your work. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 8 minutes.]]
