ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, which today is filled with political statements, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to the Proposal for a Law No 188 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the law of military infrastructures, which falls to 3. the Commission. I also refer to the following draft laws: No 1152 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen legal mechanisms for the protection of victims of violence, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1153 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter taxation within IRS so that income becomes taxed according to the actual income of the taxable person in each of the years to which they relate and the effective rate ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November 1988 ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; points 1154 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Radio and Television of Portugal ( third amendment to Law No 8 / 2007 of 14 February 2007, which provides for the restructuring of the concessionaire of the public radio and television service, as well as the new statutes of the Radio and Television of Portugal ), which goes down to 12. the Commission ; points 1155 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recasts crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code under the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measure to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and prosecution ( stalking ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1156 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the legal regime for the public transport activity of renting on light passenger cars ( taxi ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; points 1157 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Work relations within the infrastructures of Portugal, S.A. ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2015 of 29 May ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; points 1158 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Strengthening the protection of lawyers in relation to parenthood or serious illness by amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1159 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Determines the preparation by the Government of the annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal and its presentation to the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1160 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Determines the Government's preparation of a climate report, prior to the submission of the State budget, with a view to its presentation to the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1161 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Determines the obligation of analysis to the presence of glyphosate in water intended for human consumption ( change to the quality of water intended for human consumption ), which falls to 7. the Commission with connection to 11. the Commission ; points 1162 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication, which fall to 7. the Commission ; and No 1163 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the non-professional use of products containing glyphosate, which falls to 7. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 124 / XIII / 4 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 32 / 2019 of 4 March, which extends the competence of municipal bodies in the field of proximity police. The following draft resolutions were added to the Bureau: No 2025 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Fajões in Oliveira de Azemez by allocating all the necessary financial resources; No 2027 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Removal of plates containing asbestos and rehabilitation of secondary school Dr. João Carlos Celestino Gomes in Ílhavo; No. 2028 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The improvement of rail transport in Braga district and the realisation of the direct connection Braga / Guimarães ; No 2029 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 2030 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of insurance for agricultural crops covering damage to wild animals, the opening of a specific notice in the PDR 2020 to support investment in crop protection measures and the implementation of measures for the recovery of pigmeat, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 2031 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the territorial distribution of the population of boar in Portugal, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 2033 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a Code of Conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to the appropriate coverage of cases of domestic violence preventing an expected contagion effect, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and No 2034 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgent withdrawal of existing fibrosis plates in the coverage of EB 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, Seixal, and programmes and agendas the necessary requalification works. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco, for informing so many legislative initiatives. Let us turn to the agenda, which consists of political statements. The first political declaration must be given by the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I submit today to this rostrum on behalf of the Democratic Social Party because 630 000 Portuguese cannot be brought into their confidence and their future, because the savings of 630 000 Portuguese can not be put at risk, because the President of the Montepio General Mutual Association, Tomás Correia, has in doubt their suitability to lead the greatest Portuguese mutuality. Suitability is an essential value for those who run an organisation that must respond for billions of euros, which gives security, quietness and predictability to the lives of 630 000 Portuguese. Adequacy is trust. But what confidence can one expect from someone to whom Banco de Portugal imposed a millionaire fine (1 million and 250 000 €) for irregularities and mismanagement of Banco Montepio, of which is donated the Mutualist Association? Suitability is responsibility. But what sense of responsibility can you expect from someone who imposed, at the top, a sputum maneuver so that 630 000 mutualists would pay the fines of their dismissals and their irresponsibility? The fines that have already arrived and those that may still come. Despite all this, and much more that is not yet known, Tomás Correia has enjoyed the greatest condescendence of the current socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u6	Condescendence that is complicity when the Government approves a decree-law in August 2018, where there is a huge undefined hole on which responsibility lies in assessing the suitability of Tomás Correia. Minister Vieira da Silva says, with the authority of the person who made the law, that "it is all clear" and that it is the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ) that must make that assessment. The ASF, with the authority of whom it reads, studies and asks for opinions on the law, says that it is the Government, the Ministry of Labour, Vieira da Silva, himself, that it must evaluate. The President of the Republic, with the authority of common sense, says that the law of the Government must be clarified. And the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, announced last week, opposing his Minister, Vieira da Silva, that after all the government will clarify what was previously clear. It was clear, or not for that reason, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? in this game of push, one thing is certain: the government "runs at seven feet" of the responsibility to assess immediately and without further delay the suitability of Tomás Correia. Why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, is this complicity squeezing or ridiculous? Is it because Tomás Correia is also the Socialist President of the Municipal Assembly of Pedrogão Grande, this teraartir, where it rots and gains dust the solidarity and generosity of the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u8	Or will there be other reasons, already indisputable, but suspected? This complicity game between the Socialist Government and the Socialist Tomás Correia has already had other evidence in recent years that it is important to remember, here and now. Let us remember in 2017 the immense generosity of the government, wanting to put the savings of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, about 200 million euros, as a support for the mismanagement of the Banco Montepio and, indirectly, of the Mutualist Association, poor management that at the time it was suspected and that it is now perceived better. The sympathetic and generous offer of the government, with the money of all Portuguese, because of course — yes, because the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon is a public entity, protected by Vieira da Silva — aborted, although the Prime Minister said it was a good idea and it was only a shame that he had not been remembering that good idea! A strip of false modesty from Antonio Costa, as useless as complicity. Let us also remember that in 2018, in the face of the losses of the 2017 accounts of the Mutualist Association, which amounted to EUR 220 million, Tomás Correia asked the Government to change the tax system and immediately received EUR 808 million of tax credits. So they made negative results of the Mutualist Association, with supposed artificial profits to get well in photography. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of all of this, the mutualists are flaunted and the number of those who leave the institution is increasing. There is a record that, in 2018, about 15 000 have-CL- will disassociate, taking their savings with them. The government must be clear at its highest level. What is at stake is a tremendous gravity. Therefore, the PSD requires the Government to guarantee security and trust to 630 000 Portuguese people who throughout their lives have believed in the advantages of mutualism and in the sound management of the Montepio General Mutual Association. This bond of trust cannot be broken. Therefore, the PSD requires the government to act without delay and without concealing its responsibilities in convenience holes that it leaves in its own laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u10	And the Government must not fail to play its part, despite the insults and contempt with which, yesterday, the President of the General Assembly of the Mutualist Association, Father Vítor Melícias, the Secretary of State and the Ministers of this Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u11	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u12	The 630 000 mutualists are worth a mission! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u13	Four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. In the meantime, Mr Adam Silva informed the Bureau that he would reply first to two Mr Silvas. Members and then two others. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u14	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, this is an important issue, and yet it is brought to the Assembly of the Republic and exposed with all clarity. It is that, after all that happened, after the tragedy that was left Ricardo Salgado in front of the Banco Espírito Santo during the last months of life of the bank, we watched this sad show, starring by the government and the insurance supervisor, who fight in public square, so that everyone can see, to decide who is not far from Tomás Correia from the Montepio Mutualist Association. And in the midst of this sad struggle between government and supervisor, the only thing the country knows and is sure that Tomás Correia is not suitable. And it is not suitable because even Banco de Portugal — see! — I have already said that it was inappropriate and that it was unable to manage any financial institution in this country. It has already been fined by practices as long as it was in front of Montepio, but none of this is enough — neither for the government, nor for the authority which supervises insurance, nor even now for the third entity that has the power to remove Tomás Correia from the Association, which is the President of the General Assembly, already referred to here— so that neither one of these entities would consider it important to remove this person from being in front of the Mutualist Association. Our position — and we have already had the opportunity to express — is that both the government and the association which protects and supervises insurance, have the power to withdraw its suitability. This, although no one assumes these powers. The government already has powers, because it maintains the application of the code that applies to mutualist associations, but, in this transitional regime, the insurers' supervisory authority also has powers to assess the governance model and to assess the risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u15	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u16	I'm done now, Mr. President. If he does not have the power to withdraw his fitness, he has the power to pressure the government. Let him do it! We have no doubt about the responsibility of the government. Someone has to act, and fast. The question I put, Mr, is why the PSD requires a quick and speedy response from the government, with what we agree, but then does not apply the same requirement to the Banco de Portugal and other supervisors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u17	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u18	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I begin by saying that the PSD could not even wait for the two hearings that the PSD itself had proposed to present its conclusions on the subject, which requested it to be discussed in the COFMA ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation ). After the hearing with the Insurance Supervision Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ) and before the hearing with the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the PSD has already drawn its conclusions. Mr Adam Silva, it is therefore appropriate to ask you: if you had the conclusions already, why did you propose to hold hearings which are supposed to support these conclusions? But let's go to the point. Yesterday, the president of the ASF came to say, in a very taxative way, that he does not consider it to be his responsibility to assess the suitability of the president of the Mutualist Association Montepio, Tomás Correia, and, to support this position, even invoked several legal opinions. The problem is that, when we hear in COFMA the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, it is very likely that he defends that he is also not responsible for assessing Tomás Correia's suitability and is even able to appear with certain legal opinions, to support his position. If so, we take the risk — the serious risk! — of the coming time to be spent on sterile legal discussions on which, after all, must assess the suitability of the president of the Montepio Mutualist Association. While these discussions are being carried out, the suitability of Tomás Correia is not assessed, with serious damage to the Montepio Mutual Association and to the more than 600 000 associates. Mr Adam Silva, the CFP has not now agreed on this subject. We have long been alerting for management problems in the Montepio Bank and the Mutualist Association. We have long been defending the removal of Tomás Correia and the establishment of a new management team, which acts in defense of the interests of the institution and its hundreds of thousands of associates. For the CFP, Mr Adam Silva, that is the issue that matters, that is the issue that needs to be resolved and that is what the CFP has been defending. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u19	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u20	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Mariana Mortágua for her questions. There is no doubt that there is a major problem in this issue, and it is called '630 000 mutualists'. It's 630,000 Portuguese who trusted mutualism, and so on! We also believe in mutualism, we believe that it is a good tool for the mobilization and security of people, which cannot be put at risk in their safety and confidence. Deep down, people have the savings of a lifetime, several billion euros, deposited in the Mutual Association and, of course, it must be true and known that this money will return to their hands when necessary. That is why it causes us to be very strange that there is this hole in the law which the government itself has made and, above all, this exercise of ping-pong: the government makes the law, but then it says that the person responsible for doing the interpretation or measuring of fitness is another entity, giving it 12 years to evaluate that suitability; the entity says that it is not responsible for this and the government, who had previously said that it was all clear, says that after all it is not so clear! I think this is really serious stuff. The savings of 630 000 Portuguese are a matter of greater seriousness and therefore we cannot accept that the government in particular is going to play with this matter. For one reason: because the government, after the adoption of the Mutualist Code, knew very well that these people who were elected to the leadership of the Mutualist Association already had this problem of fitness. On what Mr Paulo Sá said, I felt that I would perhaps be unfair — that Mr Vieira da Silva did a defense exercise. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u21	You didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u22	Isn't that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u23	You didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u24	But it seemed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u25	But there it seemed, it seemed, Mr. Deputies. It seemed because, from our point of view, we believe that the most responsible is the legislator and, in this case, the legislator is the government. Obviously when the Decree-Law is approved in the Council of Ministers comes from the one that is the Ministry most directly involved, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. Therefore, we have no doubt that there is a strange complicity between the government and Tomás Correia and, in fact, between Vieira da Silva and Tomás Correia. What has already been noted in the past, particularly in that exercise, is to be remembered, in which force they wanted to put 200 million euros of the Holy House of Mercy — which is also yours and mine, because it is public — in what was the safeguarding of the Mutual Association. We understand that these holes cannot exist. This has to be clear and often the tragedies, which we have witnessed in the past, result in exactly these ambiguities, such complicities and the inability to act in time and time to prevent major evils. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u26	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u27	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I listened to your speech and wanted to start by saying that we are here talking about the Montepio Mutual Association, which is the owner of a bank. Whether a mutualist association, or a bank, has to be as essential — I would say as much as possible! - trust. I therefore believe that this subject must be treated with seriousness, responsibility and serenity. It is with serenity that we have to say that what has happened in recent months cannot happen. Frankly, Member — and this is the first question I will leave you — is it possible to look at and not realize that there is a complicity of the government, not with Montepio, but with a particular line within Montepio, headed by Tomás Correia? It is possible to pretend, even, that this complicity of the PS, of the Minister Vieira da Silva and of Tomás Correia is visible and that it has brought damage to the institutions, either to the Mutualist Association, or to the Banco Montepio? It began with the strange business of the 200 million euros that Minister Vieira da Silva wanted, by force, that the Holy House of Mercy lend to the Banco Montepio and, after we had had had years of promises that the supervision of the Mutualist Association would be altered, the Government, after thinking, thought, that it would make new legislation, made new legislation and left to solve one of the most important issues, which is this: after all, who has the competence to assess the suitability of Tomás Correia and the leading bodies of the Montepio Association? It is unacceptable, it is unbelievable that there has been a legal discussion that has lasted for weeks on this subject. What was required was, firstly, that the Government had properly legislated and, secondly, that the Government had legislated that someone who was sanctioned by the Banco de Portugal — and that it was sanctioned in a way that was not speedy — was not quick, but that it was heavy, just, perhaps! — someone who says the Banco de Portugal cannot be in front of a bank is not the same person who, although not in front of a bank, decides who will be in front of a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u28	Mrs. Deputy, you've already outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u29	Of course, Mr. President, I was really going to finish. I would have even finished, it wasn't the interruption of V.E.A., the very fair face of time passed. So does it make sense that the same person who cannot be in front of a bank is exactly the person who decides who is in front of a bank? Does this make any sense, Mr. Member? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u30	Madam Member, as proved by this last fraction, your earlier statement does not correspond to reality. To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Adam Silva, for the PS Parliamentary Group the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds already has legal authority to assess the suitability of Dr Tomás Correia, and should already have done so. The Government has already announced that, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, it will adopt a clarification decree which, in the coming days, after Mr. President of the Republic has been promulgated, will allow the Supervisory Authority to assess Dr. Tomás Correia's suitability. If, in recent weeks, the debate on this issue has emerged, it was because the Banco de Portugal applied a very heavy penalty to Dr. Tomás Correia, as administrator of Banco Montepio, between 2008 and 2015, because it detected irregularities in internal control, in bank management, and also in the level of granting of credits while the Banco Montepio, President of Banco Montepio. It is clear that this very heavy penalty, which, we know, is the second most heavy penalty that the Banco de Portugal applied until today, following what it applied to Ricardo Salgado, says well the size of irregularities that we probably believe to be yes, but it is the courts that will give the final word— were practiced by Tomás Correia. It is clear that this sanction of Banco de Portugal breaks confidence in the management capabilities of Dr. Tomás Correia and, as such, the stay of Dr. Tomás Correia in front of the Mutualist Association creates well-founded fears and a threat to the stability of the Mutualist Association itself. This issue, which will certainly be resolved in the coming days by the Supervisory Authority, following the clarification decree that will confirm the legal authorization of the Supervisory Authority to assess the suitability of Dr. Thomas Correia, cannot cause us to deviate from an important aspect that was highlighted yesterday in the hearing of the Chairman of the Supervisory Authority : that the Supervisory Authority cannot only evaluate the suitability of Dr. Thomas Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u32	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u33	Mr. President, I will finish. It is also up to you, for example, to require financial information, to promote special audits of the Mutualist Association, to carry out verification of technical provisions, capital requirements, asset and liability assessment and investment rules and own funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u35	It is a fundamental matter for assessing the heritage situation and the level of management of the Montepio Mutualist Association.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u36	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u37	Why was the PSD not concerned in its intervention with these aspects which are very important to provide the information due to the 630 000 members of the Mutual Association? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u38	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u39	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions put by Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr João Paulo Correia. In fact, Mrs Cecilia Meireles is quite right. The primary value in this matter is trust and, by manifest incompetence, I say! — of the Government, this relationship of trust is clearly breaking down, weakening. And this, obviously, can't be! The government, alerted to this, what did you do? He sat on his own hands, saying « competency is not ours, it is all clear, someone who solves the matter because we have nothing to do with it». Then it was found that, after all, they have and will therefore correct what was wrong. That is to say, the Government has been unable to legislate on matters of great sensitivity, one of the most sensitive issues currently in the country. It is good to be clear from my interventions that we do not attack mutualism, we exalt mutualism! We do not attack the Mutualist Association. She was there before Dr. Tomás Correia and will stay after Dr. Tomás Correia. She didn't even start or end with Dr. Tomás Correia. She is a precious asset that exists in Portugal. That is why we are calling for clarity in this matter, so that this issue is quickly overcome, because, in this way, confidence fades, security weakens and those who lose the most are, of course, the Portuguese who have believed. Mr. João Paulo Correia, V. Ex.a gave a sentence that I am able to quote to them words. The honourable Member said: "The continuation of Dr. Tomás Correia creates a threat to the stability of the Mutual Association".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u40	Founded fears!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u41	We fully agree, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u42	Founded fears!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u43	Thank you for saying that, because we're in full agreement. Look at this, Mr. Commissioner, it really poses a threat! But these threats, which obviously have much to do with the presence of someone who, recognizedly, is not suitable, have a reason to be: it is an incompetent government to legislate, incompetent to accompany an entity of these, in a strange complic relationship with Dr. Tomás Correia. The 630 000 citizens of this country deserve more than this complicity, they deserve much more. That is why, Mr President, we are absolutely convinced that the government is not right in this matter. I didn't have it before, when these people were elected to the direction of the Mutualist Association, and they still don't have it now, when they seek to remove their responsibilities, pushing to third parties what is theirs from the beginning. The government has done wrong, no doubt. The government has created a huge hole of irresponsibility, no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u45	The Government must resolve the problem on behalf of the 630 000 citizens of this country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u46	To give the second political statement, Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with a quote: "The dynamic concept of Europe requires it to be constantly reconsidered. Building Europe is not an easy task. Many obstacles arise along the way and some of them come from traditions linked to the collective life of each people. Rethinking Europe and its future is thus a permanent duty which must be assumed with humility in view of the historical importance of the objectives and which must be the work of all Europeans." — Mário Soares, at the Porto Summit « A Europa Connosco », in 1976. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We withdraw from the words of Mário Soares two teachings. The first lesson is this: the European Union is a process under construction, unfinished, imperfect. We can and should say this today, 43 years later, and we hope that our grandchildren will be able to say so in the future. Today, the European Union is deeply subject to criticism, either by its slow response to the impact on the European Union of sovereign debt crises, or by having based its response on an ultraliberal ideology, questioning social rights and trying to make us believe that this was the only response, orientation followed, in fact, religiously, in Portugal by the PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Both because of the lack of solidarity in receiving those who have sought and looked for Europe as a saving table for their lives, coming from war zones or regions where human rights do not exist, and in doubt respecting their international obligations with regard to the rights of refugees. No, the European Union has not been invaded by refugees! In fact, Antonio Guterres had already alerted us to this non-invasion when he was still United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. These and other policies have led many Europeans to stop believing in the European Union and to see an area of solidarity in the European Union. They have also led populist movements and the European extreme right to take advantage of these weaknesses, these discontents, to mobilize citizens against the European project. The last Eurobarometer shows that the confidence of European citizens is high, but that cannot let us rest. According to the teaching of this speech by Mário Soares: membership of the European Union is in the genesis of the PS. The PS is a deeply European party, as Portuguese are. It was in Europe, with the solidarity of the European fraternal parties, even in the dictatorship. He is aware that the place of belonging of Portugal is the European Union. It was -it was in 1976, as well understood the visionary Mário Soares, and it is -it is in 2019. Those who think that our place is outside the European Union are wrong. No, we will not be able to respond, either we Portuguese or any other European people alone, to world challenges alone in the world. Those who believe that we should be in the European Union are wrong, but that we should not follow European policies with our participation. Those who think we have gains by voting alone are wrong. We will not give up in strongly influencing European policies so that they can better serve Europe, Portugal and Portuguese, as this government has done, for example in budgetary matters, claiming and making proposals for the euro to become an instrument of convergence rather than of divergence - steps have already been taken - or acting in the direction of non-integration into the treaties of the so-called 'budgetary treaty'. I am also referring to the fact that the Socialist and Democratic Group in the European Parliament has conditioned the vote in Juncker in the European Parliament for the President of the European Commission to the existence of an investment plan for the European Union, which came to give rise to the Juncker Plan, and to commit itself to the adoption of a European Pillar of Social Rights, which came to happen in Gothenburg. But we will also not give up on our commitments in the framework of sovereignty that we have agreed to share with our accession to the European Union, respecting the diversity and flexibility that we have managed to achieve, for example in the recognition of the policies of this government in the framework of the European Semester. The European Union must be at the service of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u49	I'm done now, Mr. President. European elections are a good time to change the European Union and to build a more just European Union, a radical change to build a project for the future. Don't leave anyone behind. Don't leave any territory behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u50	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u51	We can only get here with a new social contract for Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u52	Four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification, and Mrs Margarida Marques has informed the Bureau that she will answer two to two. Mr Inês Domingos, Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group, first of all, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u53	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, on the citizens' initiative on the European Union, several important issues have been identified for Portuguese, such as migration, European funds or the consequences of Brexit for Portuguese citizens and the Portuguese economy. These themes are also ours and are themes that concern the PSD. Mrs Deputy, you spoke here, and well, that there is an increase in Euroscepticism, which to us, PSD, that we are a European party, we are also concerned. But this increase in Euroscepticism is also due to misinformation. And I must tell you, Madam Member, that the PS has not contributed to good information about the European Union. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u54	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, I thought she was here to correct some of the things that were said in the PS campaign and that were propagated by the Socialist Party's list head to the forthcoming European elections, because to date, Mrs Deputy, the PS interventions have been marked by contradictions, creative interpretations, to be nice, and attempts to pass fresh news as if they were new. I would therefore like to ask you whether or not it is true that Portugal's position in implementing the European funds has moved to the seventh place, contrary to what the Socialist Party has been saying, stating that Portugal was first. [[It's true! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u55	Madam Member, I understand that it is a bit unpleasant that the facts deny the reality or the image you want to try to pass, but that is what it is. I would also like to ask you the following: how does you explain the propaganda the PS has made about the next Community framework? The PS says that the funds for Portugal have increased EUR 1, 7 billion, but in real terms only if we cut inflation, which is indeed a decrease in the funds for Portugal. Why do they insist on campaigning with elements that are not true? In fact, Madam Member, the current leader of the Socialist Party's list to the European elections, which was, by the way, the minister responsible for these negotiations of the European funds, was not only incompetent to negotiate with the European Union these funds as he is now trying to cover up his mistakes with embezzlements! I would like to know what the honourable Member has to say on this subject. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u56	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u57	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Bureau. Mrs Margarida Marques came here to make an intervention — we realize, at the end, that she had a lot of the motto of the next European elections — in which she spoke about a number of matters in Europe, but, at least surprisingly, in my opinion, she was able to move on to the themes that are crucial to Portugal today at the crossroads where the European Union is. For example, we are negotiating the next Community framework, the multiannual financial framework, and the fact is that what is on the table is a clearly negative proposal for Portuguese interests. To lose 7 % of the Cohesion Fund funds is something that should concern all Portuguese who benefit from these funds at a time when Portugal is unfortunately still far from the average per capita of the rest of the European Union. To lose a significant part of the money from the second pillar of agriculture, which is often the most related money to the investment and innovation of the agricultural sector itself, is something that the Socialist Party should be concerned about! But, of course, it does not concern you because you are not talking about this matter. She does not talk about, for example, what is happening today in the implementation of the current Community framework. We are less than two years from the end of the framework and Portugal has yet to implement 29 % of the funds, 18 % from the Cohesion Fund, and this should concern you, Mrs Deputies, as you should be concerned - the fact that the European Union has not yet been able to close mechanisms which, for Portugal, are very important, for example, the euro area reform mechanism. Mrs. Deputy quoted Mário Soares several times. I cannot help but ask Mrs Soares what she would think of the current position of the Socialist Party vis-à-vis socialist governments that are colleagues within the European Socialist Party and that are currently attacking the foundations of the rule of law, as is for example happening in Romania or Malta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u59	When this happened in the European People's Party ( European People's Party ) with a co-generous party of the CDS, we were the first to ask for suspension, to request until the expulsion of the same party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u60	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u61	I would like to know what the Socialist Party thinks about what is happening in Romania and what is happening in Malta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u62	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u63	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. It is surprising that the honourable Member has not referred to the great European issue at the moment, which is Brexit, which certainly concerns us very much about the effect that may have on Portuguese people there and on the Portuguese economy, on the exporting entities currently exporting to the United Kingdom. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u64	In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political statements effectively have a limit, and that limit is 6 minutes. But, fortunately, raising a few issues here, which, in fact, I thank you, allows us to go further in this debate on the European Union. On the first question, the implementation of the framework, I think Mrs Inês Domingos either Mr Pedro Mota Soares or Mr Pedro Mota Soares should first consider what was the framework they negotiated and what was the level of implementation when they left the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] With regard to the framework they have negotiated, it is important, for example, that is something that is very little talked about — that they never talk about the money they have devoted to the financial instruments, which have a weight in our unacceptable framework. Moreover, we were the second country, following the United Kingdom, in amounts geared towards financial instruments. It is very interesting to look at this, knowing that the operators of the structural funds in Portugal, the Portuguese institutions that benefit from the structural funds are not tending to be interested in using those financial instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u66	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u67	But we wanted to be modern and, therefore, we were the seconds in financial instruments. The other 26 countries did not want these financial instruments to be included in their multiannual financial frameworks. With regard to the implementation of the framework, you know what the implementation was when you left the government and what the implementation today is. [[Protests from PSD Deputies Cristóvão Crespo and Duarte Marques.]] And it is important to highlight the capacity that this Government had to renegotiate the reprogramming of the multiannual financial framework, which was indeed a success for the Portuguese Government, a success for Pedro Marques, then Minister, who led this reprogramming. Today, this reprogramming effectively serves the interests of Portuguese, Portugal's interests and allows to channel funds to Portuguese and businesses. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, we may be here discussing Brexit, but who is discussing it are the British in your Parliament. It is clear that Brexit has an impact throughout the European Union and, above all, has an impact on the United Kingdom. But what's interesting is to check...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u68	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u69	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, what is interesting is what it means for the British to divide and conflict of powers on British right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u70	About Romania and Malta, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u71	There are two more Members registered to request clarifications, the Left Block and the PCP. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Isabel Pires. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u72	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, I would like to thank you for the subject that brought the debate here, and because, in fact, it is important. The honourable Member has told us about the European project, which was actually a project built, from its beginning, on the back of the peoples, without listening to them. That is why we have things today, such as the Treaty of Lisbon, which is a paradigmatic example of this departure from citizens and citizens and of how these kind of treaties have served to legitimize absolutely unacceptable things that have been happening over the past decades, from an economic point of view, from a financial point of view, but also from the point of view of solidarity, that it has spoken so much here, and that the European project has also served to legitimize some wars that have already taken place in the world. But we have also had other blackmail tools created by this European project, such as the budgetary treaty, which has never been completely rejected by the Socialist Party itself. It is true that they rejected him to pass Community law in the European Parliament, but the Socialist Party here and also at European level follows the risk of what the emanations of this budget treaty are. Therefore, it served and served to justify a sick obsession that has existed on the part of this government to have a deficit close to zero or below zero. It is therefore not worth talking about things that have not happened, such as saying that the Socialist Party does not reject the budgetary treaty because it accepts it and follows it at risk, which has greatly damaged, for example, the public investment capacity that the country has at the expense of this treaty. But there are also other European debates which, in our view, the Socialist Party should put on the table. Or is the honourable Member no longer reminded of a very important debate on public debt? In addition, there was a working group of the Left Block and the Socialist Party that did exactly this debate, provided that there is a debate at European level on the issue of public debt, which is a problem that seriously affects our country, beyond other countries. It is appropriate to ask whether the Socialist Party has also forgotten this issue. Finally, Mrs Deputy, spoke of a European project threatened by the extreme right, by ultra-liberalism, which uses the question of refugees...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, he spoke of a European project mined by the extreme right, by ultra-liberalism, which uses the question of refugees to create a narrative of fear. But I would remind you, Madam Member, that you forget the role that both the European Commission and other institutions in which the Socialist Party and the Government sit have had to strengthen exactly these forces. And I remember only the security measures, the concessions that have been made to these policies of fear, because only solidarity is being defended by practicing it, it is not legitimizing walls or creating European armies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u75	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u76	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, I would also like to congratulate you. Mrs Deputies, we have often put on the table the political options of the European Union which have led to the degradation of the living conditions of the peoples, which have led to poverty, which have led to exclusion, social inequalities and which are also responsible for the discontent of the peoples because of the way in which the European Union has chosen. And what does the European Union respond to this discontent and to concrete problems faced by people and workers? The answer is not in the sense of its resolution, it is to continue on the same path, deepening these policies of precariousness, instability, unemployment, poverty, which, in fact, do not solve the problems that people are facing. This is the fundamental issue, which clarifys and characterizes the nature of this project, a capitalist integration project that was not made to solve any of the problems of the peoples but, yes, of the great economic groups and of the great capital. And this is very visible in our country, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u77	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u78	We needed to advance towards the value of wages, towards the value of careers, towards the strengthening of the National Health Service, the public school, the hiring of more workers, who are missing in the Public Administration, the valorization and guarantee of public transport of quality, more public investment for the development of our country in the bet on national production. And what is done by the government? In fact, having a convergence between the PS, the PSD and the CDS, in fact, the reality of our country shows that these advances cannot be achieved by maintaining submission to the limitations and constraints that the European Union is imposing on our country, that the PS, the PS, and the CDS accept and that in practice is an obstacle and an impediment to our development and progress in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u80	Madam Member, the question I wanted to leave you is very simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u81	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u82	I'm done now, Mr. President. The next important question is: the Socialist Party voted against the transposition of the content of the budget treaty into European legislation. What I wanted to ask is whether this position will be maintained consistently and whether the Socialist Party here will defend the repeal of this treaty and its disengagement from Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u83	In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u84	Mr President, first of all I thank the questions put by Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Isabel Pires. The honourable Members bring here an issue which is very expensive to the Socialist Party, which is the issue of intergovernmental versus Community. What we have as a budgetary treaty is an intergovernmental treaty. What the Socialist Party has advocated is that we should value the Community method rather than the intergovernmental method. For example, when we propose the transformation of a European stability mechanism into a European Monetary Fund, what we want is that we actually abandon intergovernmental vision and value the Community dimension, because the Community dimension means more power from the European Commission, which has been the allied institution of small and medium-sized countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u85	Oh! Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u86	The European Commission is the institution which allows all countries to participate, in a balanced way, in the decision-making process at European level. That is why the Socialists in the European Parliament spoke against the transposition of the budgetary treaty into the Treaties of the European Union. And this is in view: the budgetary treaty should have been incorporated into the treaties five years after its entry into force, i.e. on 1 January 2018. We are almost in mid- 2019 and the budgetary treaty remains outside the European Union treaties. On the issue of Mrs Paula Santos, when she says that the European Union was not set up to respond to the problems of the people, I think that she is forgetting the origin of the European Union, which was exactly European reconstruction after the Second World War. It actually served to respond to the need to rebuild Europe, in a peace project, creating living conditions and rights for Europeans after World War II. It is to this project that the European Union is still linked today to respond more concretely and more today. The honourable Member knows that the socialists in the European Union have fought... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u87	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u88	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs Paula Santos knows that the socialists in the European Union have fought for the existence of a European pillar of social rights and have fought for a clear definition and quantification of an effort to combat poverty in 2020 and that both sides of industry today exist in European policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u89	For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The president of the EMPORDEF, João Pedro Martins, came to Parliament to make a very serious accusation, that the management of the extinct shipyards of Viana do Castelo had acts that classified it as being of high corruption. This hearing, requested by the Left Block and carried out in the National Defence Commission, was marked by the denunciation of a privatisation strategy, which was to present accounts of publicly adulterous companies and very negative balances to justify the need for their privatisation. These are very serious accusations that cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u92	EMPORDEF is the holding that manages the Portuguese defence industries, whose activity consists of the management of shares held by the State in companies directly or indirectly linked to defence activities as an indirect form of economic activity. It has several nuclei of participation, which are divided between the naval, industrial, technological, real estate and financial sectors. They were also part of the EMPORDEF the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo, before they were handed over to a private company by the former government, PSD / CDS. The results of the EMPORDEF, according to which João Pedro Martins denounced, were built so that the holding would present negative own capitals. In fact, this was the argument presented by Paulo Portas in 2014 to justify the termination decision of EMPORDEF. We know today that decision has based on false arguments and technical lies. The main argument put forward to liquidate the company would not have corresponded to the truth, as EMPORDEF did not present negative capital in the three years prior to 2014. Indeed, the company presented in its audited accounts between 2010 and 2014 capital over EUR 100 million. Another huge lie the previous government told to the Portuguese! There is one example that shows the size of fraud: Alverca land held by EMPODEF has been assessed for the accounts for a value of EUR 113 000. I repeat, EUR 113 000. However, the most recent assessment by the Finance shows that these land is worth EUR 60 million. These are the fashionable PSD and CDS accounts! And what's the point? Of course, to liquidate a public company that would make profits and open the way for the privatization of the other companies of the Group, as happened with the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo and with the GMOs. But the current president tells us that the lies of the PSD and the CDS on companies detained by EMORDEF did not end here. The accounts of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo were manipulated, presenting debts far above reality. Another lie, now more than 300 million euros, was the difference between what they announced and reality and thus opened the way for easier privatization. In the face of these very serious complaints, it is necessary to clear up all the responsibilities, because the public heritage, the state heritage, which ultimately belongs to all of us, is at stake. After all, has there been or not corruption involving all this process? « High corruption», tells us the current president of EMPORDEF, « many irregularities » and « criminal situations», tells us. Very grave, we say! In the face of these complaints, what do you have to say about PSD, CDS and even PS? They wanted to ease the situation and, therefore, they wanted to reject the hearing of political leaders in these cases. The Left Block proposed the hearing of the former Minister of Aguiar White Defense and the former Minister of Defense Azeredo Lopes, but PSD, CDS and PS wanted to veto. We won't let him! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Left Block presented a legislative requirement for these former governors to be heard in Parliament. A very serious complaint of corruption must have consequences and the truth must be ascertained. Rui Rio said for days that the privatization of the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros is a success case. CDS realizes it had nothing to do with it. The PS is far from the requests for transparency and research required by Ana Gomes and prepares to extinguish EMPORDEF, which has always been and is profitable, fulfilling the will of Paulo Portas. Is this the wall of silence that stands before these complaints? The Left Block will hear the former Ministers of Defence and, I announce here, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, propose the conduct of a forensic audit to the accounts of EMPORDEF and the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. The fight against corruption is not compatible with silence walls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u93	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u94	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u95	Mr Leonel Costa of the PSD, therefore, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u96	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, this is a markedly ideological debate by the Left Block. The Left Block does not want to clarify anything, and much less be clarified; if not yesterday at the Defence Commission meeting, it had accepted the PSD's suggestion that, before hearing the political class, it should listen to the managers at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u97	There's no responsibility, is there?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u98	This is because, in fact, it is important for us to understand what is going on with the company, but not for the Left Block. Mr President, let us be very clear: the question of EMPODEF was based on the statements made by the President of the Liquidation Board, which he had just mentioned, in which he claimed that the 2015 decision was supported by such accounting criteria but not. The resolution of the Council of Ministers, and it is enough to read it from the beginning to the end, was simply a political decision, and a correct political decision, we know today, quoting the words of Rui Rio, which also mentioned recently, a successful decision. So, in a way, I am afraid that the honourable Member, despite what happened at the hearing of the President of the Liquidation Council, is still trying to maintain his interpretation today that what was underlying was any accounting criterion, and it was not. The profit that much of the companies involved by EMPODEF had been channelled to cover the damage of the Ship Shipyards, and did not arrive. With the privatisation decision, this injury has ceased to exist and EMPORDEF today has profits to distribute, precisely because the decision has been successful. Moreover, the President of the Liquidation Board himself said that the current assumptions are not those that occurred in 2015. The PSD decision, so that it was successful and successful, has allowed it to maintain the Shipyards, maintain the jobs and have a high export revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u99	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u100	Therefore, the question that arises for the Left Block is whether the Block prefers, for this highly ideological issue, as I said, the closure of the Staleiro and the extinction of all these jobs. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u101	Mr Jorge Machado, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u102	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I begin by welcoming the political statement he brought to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. In response to the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the President of the EMPORDEF Liquidatory Commission, in particular with regard to the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros, said that this was high corruption. And we have no doubt, in two fundamental respects: the first is that all the matter that has been transmitted must be referred to the Public Prosecutor for the clearance of criminal responsibilities, and therefore there is a world of investigations that must be made and the conclusions must be taken to the end. in this perspective, we want to say that the hope of the CFP Parliamentary Group is that the Public Prosecutor's Office will do its work and that all the responsibilities, but on the political level, which is the one that interests us most, are assured that the privatization of the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo was, from the political point of view and from the point of view of national interest, a real crime. Now, that's why I want to bring to the discussion the privatization of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. I recall two or three statements made in the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry on the privatization of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. At the time, we said: « It was clear in the hearings that the decision to extinguish the Viana do Castelo Shipyards and to grant their land was not an inevitability, before running, and it is inseparable, of options of successive governments(...) » and now adding PS, PSD and CDS-PP, « (...) and of the actions and omissions of successive administrations by them appointed, whose responsibilities cannot be cleared. The Government's option to liquidate the company is a choice that reflects an ideological position that only serves the interests of private groups who intend to appropriate a public, decisive and strategic heritage of shipbuilding in Portugal ». In fact, there is a reality, something that is completely factual: it is that to build ocean patrol ships when the shipyards were a public entity, successive governments and successive administrations created difficulties after difficulties, and as soon as the shipyards were privatized it is a flood of facilities and there is no lack of money to build the ocean patrol ships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u104	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u105	So there was an option and I ask you: do you think there was a deliberate privatization strategy and to dismantle the public response to favour the private business of half a dozen economic groups? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u106	The right just doesn't see why he doesn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u107	Mr. João Rebelo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u108	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I would like to put this debate into reality because Mr. João Vasconcelos spoke of a reality that did not exist yesterday at the meeting of the Defence Committee. Whoever doesn't want to be clarified, is not interested in the truth or in details that could provide that same truth is the Left Block. In fact, Lusa, News Agency, was present, and I recommend to Mrs. Journalists heard the recording of this same hearing because they were proposed by the Social Democratic Party, the PS and the CDS to hear other entities before the ministers. And what did the Left Block say? He said no, he wanted to put his request for a vote in those same terms, which was plunged because of that, and then advanced with the power schedule. Mr President, it is not surprising that the Left Block, in four years of this legislature, of the two times that it can use the legislative agenda in committee, was solely because of the management of EMPORDEF, as if there were no other subjects but important to be discussed in power schedules.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u109	No, because what you want is to shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u110	Well, I know you guys are. Members do not want to talk about health, transport or the state of the art in which the country is, that is what we know. It serves your mystification agenda. This speech by Mr John Vasconcelos was a mistification. On the other hand, as has been said here by my colleagues, this in a lot to do with the bad loss of the Left Block. As the GMO provides profit, it works and is an example of productivity in the hands of a private company, this for the Left Block questions all your thoughts about the private being bad. Mr. Deputies, as the Marine Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo — who have not been privatized, have been extinct and a concession has been given to a private company — are working, are working, have more workers than they had before, have profit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u111	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u112	... manufacture ships and ships delivered in time and time, and this undermines your ideological vision, invents this scheme to try to break this reality. Well, I know this is an ideological problem, it's not the truth and the ladies. Deputies are not interested in this, they want to open an ideological front against this option of the Shipkeepers. And, Mr President, there is also manipulation of what has been said here by the President of the EMPORDEF Liquidated Commission, manipulation, I repeat, because he did not say many of the things mentioned here by Mr John Vasconcelos. Finally, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I ask you: have you heard what I have heard? Mr Deputie, I will read what he said, in the redefining part of these topics: « Beyond all accounts, the Viana do Castelo Shipkeepers have warned of a disenchanting in the 2017 EMPODEF management accounts of 35 million ». And he remarked: "I did not ask neither the Minister of Defense." Don't you think this is a scandal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u113	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u114	I'm done now, Mr. President. And more: « they wanted to put in the EMPODEF budget EUR 12 million and I said no, that we should not owe anything to anyone». Don't you think this is weird?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u115	We ask the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u116	« Strange» was the expression used by the President of the EMPORDEF Liquidated Commission, but on this it is no longer appropriate for the Left Block to speak. And you know why? Because they are budgets approved by the Left Block and this tips the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u117	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u118	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u119	Therefore, they are not interested in the truth, they are not interested in anything at all, they are interested in creating difficulties for companies that are working very well. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u120	Mr Joaquim Raposo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u121	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, we regret what has been happening with EMPORDEF, particularly with the situation of the Shipkeepers. Already in 2012 we had submitted an urgent request to the National Defence Commission to hear the then presidents of EMPODEF in order to clarify the prospects for the evolution of the management and financial situation, which, already at the time, were serious in the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. That request was rejected. In the vision of the PS, the entire process relating to the Viana do Castelo Shipyards was dealt with in a hurry, in a manner shaken by the previous Government. The Socialist Party will not go into circles and, if there were bad management practices in the business world of EMPOREF and acts that read the State and the public interest were practiced, following Parliament's statements by the current President of the Liquidaria Commission, João Pedro Martins, this is a situation of greatest gravity. Therefore, this situation has to be clarified and clarified by those who have jurisdiction to do so, i.e. justice, after it has been transmitted to us by the President of the Liquidate Commission that these mismanagement practices have already been reported to the competent authorities, in particular the Public Prosecutor's Office. What we hope is that it will be investigated, that it will be responsible and that justice will fulfill its mission. I repeat : that you investigate, that you are responsible and that justice fulfills your mission! Mr. João Vasconcelos, I repeat what the PS said, particularly through Mr. Diogo Leão, i.e. we had the opportunity to propose that the former presidents and financial managers of EMPODEF should be heard so that we could then decide to listen to the previous political leaders. This was a serious and consequential proposal, but the Left Block thus no longer understood it as appropriate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party does not remove this hypothesis from the table, because it wants this situation to be clarified by those who have the power to do so at this stage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u122	To reply, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u123	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your requests for clarification. Deputies Leonel Costa, from PSD, Jorge Machado, from PCP, João Rebelo, from CDS, and Joaquim Raposo, from PS. First of all, I address myself to the honourable Members. Deputies Leonel Costa and João Rebelo because it was your government that led to the extinction of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. [[Well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u124	On the CDS bench it is said 'and well'!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u125	By the way, I make a statement of interest to say that the Left Block does not compact with any kind of corruption, whatever it is and where it comes from. We are intransigent in complaints of any kind of corruption. Mr Leonel Costa, your position is very strange. The President of the EMPORDEF Liquidated Commission fully demonstrated the company's accounts in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, therefore before 2014, and reported that the company had net results above EUR 100 million. [[PSD's Protests Leonel Costa.]] The honourable Member has received these results just like me! According to the audited accounts, EMPORDEF had 195 million in 2010; 2011, 163 million; 2012, 147 million; and 2013, 119 million. And the honourable Member has not been able to demystify a single number! Here are the audited accounts. In fact, on your part, it is clear that you want this to be forgotten, and also Mr Rebello. They say the Left Block wanted the closure of a company that had the size we knew and with more than 600 workers. No, sir. Deputies Leonel Costa and João Rebelo! This was a political and ideological option of your government, of the previous government. For example, why did former Minister Aguiar Branco cancel the construction, which had been decided in 2004 of 10 patrol ships? Then the announcement was made and two ocean patrol vessels were handed over to the Navy for EUR 77 million, without any public contract, by direct adjustment. Here, indeed, there were already facilities! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an issue that we cannot let go and political leaders need to be heard. We will not hear the mercenary, the one who makes the accounts, what we need is political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u126	That's right! That's how it hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u127	That is what the Left Block wants and demands and nothing better than to do it here in this House in Parliament. The Portuguese have the right to know effectively what has happened. Mr. Jorge Machado, we must assume responsibilities within the political sphere—as sure as criminal investigation will be doing its work, at least what we wish—because, in this particular case, there was a deliberate strategy to privatize the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u128	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u129	Mr Joaquim Raposo, from the PS, we want everything to be investigated, it is a fact, but we also want politicians not to go wrong about this research.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u130	Don't you want them to go wild even if they're innocent? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u131	Politicians must respond politically to what they have done. So we have to listen to those responsible and nothing better than to start there; then, we can hear all the others. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u132	For a political declaration, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the week of three years of the presidency's term of office, the CDS points out the moment again bringing to this House a question which, unfortunately and despite the appeals of the President of the Republic, went to the side of a legislative process that goes far ahead to its end. I am, of course, talking about reforming justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members have spent 923 days, I repeat, 923 days, since the President of the Republic has launched the challenge to sign a pact between the protagonists of justice and political parties. It was 923 long days that served for justice operators to understand themselves, but that did not arrive to the parties to show their vision and reach the minimum common denominator, with the exception of the CDS, which exactly 377 days ago presented their proposals in this Chamber itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Thirty-seventy-seven days in which Mr. Members of the majority were absolutely incapable of giving, even with all the letters on the table, a small useful contribution that would be, together with the work that the CDS presented. It's not just disconcerting how, worse, it was a completely lost opportunity, which we regret. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u134	More: on that day March 1, 2018, when we presented our proposals here, so for more than a year, the PS challenged the CDS to bring down its projects without a vote so that an in-depth and extended debate could be held within the framework of the Justice Pact. Together — the PS, in fact, made a chorus with the Left Block and the PCP — made several accusations about those who have nothing more substantial to say and understood that they needed more time to think and debate justice. Because it is precisely the objective of the CDS to do its part in a discussion that could and should be of all of us and, of course, each party has its priorities and times, the CDS has accepted the appeal and has lowered its proposals without a vote. We were hoping — we now know that it was in vain — that the debate that was awaiting could be held in reasonable time and that the proposals that were missing could be put forward. We have waited for 377 days — ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 377 days! — and none of the PS, Block and PCP benches! Neither debate nor ideas nor proposals. Nothing! One zero on the left! The desert! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And because 377 days is more than enough time and, above all, because there is no longer much useful time to achieve the greatest consensus required, the CDS will even present a request today to the President of the 1st Commission to request further discussion and vote on the 13 initiatives that are pending alone in that Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the majority, the CDS has not been stopped. He launched the debate and the forum for justice, led by Prof. Dr. Rui Medeiros, heard the judicial operators and deepened many other matters. Some of these matters, because they imply a constitutional review which the majority also rejected, will have to be postponed, but others, such as the review of the regime of access to law, which the Government delays presenting, such as the fight against corruption or the fight against the scourge of domestic violence, will be dealt with immediately by us. I highlight the issue of domestic violence. As you tragically saw, this is a fight that does not sympathize with hesitations and absences. For this reason, the CDS will now enter three projects that deal with the topic. We do it uphill and downhill. In addition: in the fundamental work of prevention and risk detection, proposing that the Government respond by all metropolitan and district PSP commands and territorial GNR commands the model of the office of support to the victim of domestic violence of the District PSP Command of Porto, which is a successful experience. This office accompanies the victims throughout the process in which the identification of the risk is made, in parallel with the Public Prosecutor's Office, who has two judges dedicated, in full time, only and only to this matter and with a 24-hour response. This is a model that has worked well and which is therefore worth copying. Below : with a simple and punctual change in the Penal Code, which will begin to classify the crimes of threat and coercion as public crimes, unsuspecting of withdrawal of complaint, even when the coercion is exercised on husband and wife, descendants or ascendants, and also the obligation to include specific modules of initial and continuing training for judges. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In the area of domestic violence, we are happy to have the company of all other parties, so we hope that, at least here, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the raising of arguments can bring some light to the problem, without ideological blindness or cane-leads. Moreover, the luck of the CDS proposals will be that of giving them both to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we finally vote for them. And then it will be clear to what each of us comes and what real interest each of us has in a consensus for justice. Mr President of the Republic, in 2016, when he launched a challenge for a regime pact to which the majority did not or did not want to respond, said that among the various challenges facing justice the « first and most difficult» is the challenge of « wanting» to continue fighting for it, « in a time that invites capitular or to give up ». The CDS fulfilled its role: it gathered, studied, proposed and even, see itself, waited for the majority. He didn't capitulate, he didn't give in. But the absence of the other parties ignored the work of the judicial operators and prevented the regime pact which was being imposed. We fulfill our desire to be a vigilant opposition but also a party of alternative and initiative. Most of them, to reform justice, said nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u137	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, the Bureau registered three Members to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Would you like to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u138	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u139	To request clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u140	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I am dividing the questions that I would like to put to you in two parts. In the first part, I would like to point out that the honourable Member has done an exercise of some grief, let me express it. It regretted that it had been sent down to the Commission for further consideration draft laws of the CDS, which had passed a lot of time and had no further assessment. The CDS therefore wants them to be discussed and voted on. It is a right that assists the CDS that its initiatives which have been brought down to the Commission for further consideration are effectively discussed and voted on. It is a right which is normally incumbent on the tenderers, i.e. the tenderers themselves who take the initiative to discuss and vote on their diplomas which have been lowered to the Commission. Perhaps there have been initiatives that have been down by kindness from the other parties that not exactly from the CDS and the problem is that the bills do not mature because they remain in the committees waiting for a new appreciation. We believe that this is a right that assists the CDS and we will vote on initiatives for what they are worth from our point of view. We will therefore vote in favour of what we agree on and will vote against — and in these drafts presented by the CDS there are matters we disagree on — what we disagree about. Everyone will take responsibility for it. This is how the Assembly of the Republic should function. With regard to the initiatives you have announced here, I believe that any contributions that can be made to a discussion that needs to be made, and to continue, on the best legislative solutions in the area of domestic violence, which is, of course, a serious crime that we all are concerned about. The PCP has also recently presented a bill aimed at strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence. All initiatives are therefore welcome. Not that there should be a contest of ideas on solutions to the problem of domestic violence, because this usually does not give good results—I am not saying that this is, I think, the contributions are welcome to be discussed—but the honourable Member has announced something which, at the outset, causes us some strangeness, that it is the fact that he has considered the crime of threat as a public crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u141	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u142	I will finish, Mr. President. The CDS that presents the initiatives and we will be here to discuss them with all good faith.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u143	In reply, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u144	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for your questions. Mr President, I would begin by saying that you are confused with inertia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u146	What I have come here to do was to denounce your inertia and, Mr President, I must say more to you: 377 days and 2 minutes have passed without you saying anything about justice at all. [[Zero! Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u147	In the area of justice, you presented here 'zero'! Mr President, you are always focusing on matters of form and never on matters of content. In the debate a year ago it was exactly the same question: either because the projects were submitted too late, or because they had not had time... Mr. Deputy, it had 377 days and still, it continues to present absolutely nothing in the matter of justice. It was essential that we should do so, that we should all come here not to make a contest of ideas, Mr, because that is not what this is about, but to put our proposals on the table and, with everyone's consent, we will achieve the best possible policies. That was what we needed, Mr. Moreover, I would also like to tell you that the CDS has no problem with downloading the initiative to the committee without a vote and now asking for your vote again. [[377 days!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u148	The gentlemen. Members use this as a lifestyle, we know. To shut your clientele down, you always have to make your number here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u149	Have regard for the political class! Be respectful, if you want to be respected! More respect! [[Right now, PCP MP João Oliveira hit hands at the end of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u150	And after they do the number, they lower the initiatives without a vote, so that there is no problem, especially with the PS bench. Mr. Deputies, we don't do that. When we believe in an initiative, we propose it and we put it down without a vote so that you can bring your proposals. Because they didn't bring anything, we're going to vote. Too bad you didn't want to come to this discussion. We wanted to do it and you didn't want it. Keep that burden with the gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u151	Keep trying in your tongue! If you want to be respected, give yourself to respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u152	The following request for clarification is from Mr Fernando Anastácio, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u153	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, 377 days and a few more minutes late, it is true, but it is your inertia. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh, my God.Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u154	Of course! They are the only ones who have the legitimacy to require the vote on your diplomas. I also understand that they have relatively heavy consciousness because they know that many of the things that are there do not have the slightest ability to be viable, because they are things without any foundation. in this concrete framework, they did not even put the diplomas to the vote and waited for them to be placed one year in the drawer to improve. But, Mrs. Member, things don't change for inertia!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u156	That's the difference! In fact, about justice, we talked all day. During the morning, we had the opportunity to speak about justice and to take on that red list with things that were not done in the area of justice, which Mrs Vania Dias da Silva brought, and, by the reply of the Minister of Justice, I am sure that, at the moment, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has already transformed this red list into a pink list, because, in fact, there is no other way to understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But regardless of the colors, let's go to the facts. There was talk of balance, talk of what has been done and what has not been done. Then we recalled some things that have been done and others that have not been done, but do you remember the reopening of the 20 judgments of proximity that your government has closed? Yeah, we did that, Mrs. Member! Do you remember the numbers given to you today about the drop in procedural suspension? They're realities we can't run away from. If we talk about justice reform, we have to talk about results and these are clearly here. But we can also speak of the judges who have been hired and admitted, of the progress of the officials, of the Court + project, of monitoring, of the prison guards who have been hired, of the reduction of the prison population and of the fact that, at the moment, there is no overlap, of the regime of the major escort, which is a profound reform of our Code of Civil Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u157	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u158	I will now finish, Mr President. We can talk about a set of things that clearly show that justice today, in 2019, compared with the justice that you have left, is very different indeed, but different for better. Portugal, too, is much better in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u159	In reply, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u160	Mr President, Mr Fenando Anastácio, thank you very much for the statements you have made here. I would like to tell you, honourable Member, at 377 days and now 6 minutes that inertia is not ours. Inertia is only yours and only you can apply! [[PS protests.]] Today, 377 days and almost 7 minutes later, Mr, there is absolutely no PS proposal here for the justice pact.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u161	Not to say bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u162	That is what you asked for. In fact, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, who had held the debate a year ago, asked us to hold the hearings that we were to hold in the framework of the Justice Pact in 1. the Commission. Did we do it, sir? Don't even see him!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u163	You're going to need it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u164	Mr. Deputy, did you ask for it? What's your interest? It's both mine and yours. It is unfortunate that you have no strict interest in having this debate. The CDS was here, presented all its proposals and you presented zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u166	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u167	So our patience, frankly, has run out, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u168	This is belief! It's faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u169	Our mistake was to trust the gentlemen. Members would present something, but obviously they did not, because they have very little interest in this justice pact and in real justice reform. Mr President, I would also like to say that the red list that we were talking to the Minister today has not become green or pink or anything but turned into a black list. The list is getting worse and worse! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u170	The Minister of Justice has not answered strictly any of the questions I left you this morning. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I must tell you, Mr, that what was really important is not done. You want me to tell you what it is? Making constitutional justice more accessible; addressing the prevention and investigation of corruption with the training of the PJ ( Judicial Police ) ; ensuring health care and reforming training in prisons; consulting the judicial system; legal advisory offices;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u171	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u172	... extension of the competence and network of peace judges; procedural simplification, with reduction of redundant procedural acts; assessment of the possibility of amending the rules of proof production, etc. etc. etc. etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u173	We needed an hour!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u174	Mr President, to all these questions I have asked the Minister, I have obtained zero answers. You know why? Because also the government's activity in the field of justice was zero! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u175	The word now belongs to Mrs Sandra Cunha, the Left Block, for another request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u176	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, a little more than a month ago in this House, several benches, including the CDS bench, defended with all vehemently that no change to the law, any prediction or legal reception on domestic violence was necessary. They argued that the problems and shortcomings of the GREVIO team ( Expert Group on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ) recorded in their report on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in Portugal only need adjustments in relation to procedures, means, training, but they did not change the law. Two or three months ago, the Left Block brought here a number of projects, which were presented, discussed and voted, as well as several initiatives, which wanted to respond precisely to the problem of domestic violence, with amendments to the law. But these were plunged, they were highly criticized and we were accused of responding to the foam of the moment with populist measures, of yielding to social pressures. After all, now the CDS, but also the Government, which has already announced several measures that go in exactly the same direction and which have exactly the same objective of several measures as the Left Block, come to say that it is necessary to change the law. The PSD also presents the same measures as the Left Block had submitted and which plummeted two or three months ago, arguing that no amendments to the law were necessary. After all, two or three months later, they present the same measures. The CDS, by the way, now also announces that it will present amendments to the Criminal Code, something which, two or three months ago and still on January 30, was completely unthinkable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u177	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. The Left Block always said that it had an opening for any proposed amendment that any bench wanted to present. We will have all the openings to look at all the initiatives now announced and presented. What we are really interested in is solving the problem of domestic violence by improving prevention and combating it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u179	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u180	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, has forgotten the rest of the intervention and has brought here only the concrete issue of domestic violence. So that's what I'm going to talk about. I wanted to tell you that you never heard from the CDS' mouth that the measures that the Left Block presented were populists and that they were not interested in anything. We disagreed with some of the solutions that they present and said, in fact, within the framework of this legislative package on justice that we presented a year ago, that we had a draft resolution to establish a committee to review criminal legislation, in order, among many other things, to study the balance of the criminal frameworks of blood crimes and economic crimes. We understand that the Penal Code is a blanket of flaps that will hardly be able to sew without leaving holes and that it deserves, yes, an in-depth study, stopped and a systematic review, so that everything is properly calibrated. However, there are urgent matters, of which we are aware every day and which reality imposes, making sense we make a very minor amendment only on that issue I have spoken to you about. We are willing to study in depth all the measures that are being brought here. This is an area where, in fact, there is a real problem with which we are faced, so it is vital that we all understand what is possible, how to do more and better. Lack of prevention, lack of means, but also some other subjects that we are willing to study. They wanted the gentlemen. Members do the same for the rest of the reform of justice and we would have an ideal world in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u181	The last request for clarification is the PSD. Mrs Sandra Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u182	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, the PSD had the opportunity to say, on the day of national mourning, that it is important for us that a day of national mourning should be 365 days in the fight against domestic violence. Therefore, we welcome the CDS for bringing this issue today and for bringing it together to our voice, for having corresponded to the challenge that the PSD launched on that day so that we would work together beyond symbolisms, in order to find good and effective answers for the victims, which, this year, unfortunately, are already 13. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the victims and the effectiveness of the system so that we can prevent their deaths. We therefore presented five initiatives, in which we propose more and better training for the judiciary and that this component be taught as an integral part of the SEJ course ( Centre for Judicial Studies ). We also propose to change the maximum limit of the criminal framework of domestic violence in one year, not so much because of the hardening of the penalty itself but, above all, for the purpose of removing the crime of domestic violence from small and medium-scale conflict. Thus, other more secure procedural institutes for victims may apply to this crime, in particular that aggressors are, as a rule, tried by a collective court and held under the height of the crimes to which preventive detention can be applied on the grounds of punishment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our contribution to the fight, not to mourning. This is our contribution to a serious and wide-ranging debate. What I am asking you is that if you do not consider these PSD proposals to be relevant, which are open proposals, which you, of course, welcome now, especially today, when we hear in the morning the Minister of Justice saying that the Government is working on identifying information and articulation needs between the various entities and is studying joint training.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u183	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u184	I will finish, Mr. President. ... of the judiciary and to evaluate the need for intervention in the content of training, when we all know what entities need articulation and when we all realize that the training of judges is insufficient and inadequate. In fact, the country has already realized that the training of judges needs to be reviewed and altered. Only the Minister of Justice knows this yet. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u185	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u186	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, thank you very much for the questions you have left me here. The issue of domestic violence is obviously a very important issue and must be thoroughly discussed among all. It is essential that we all look at the problem, look at the solutions that are before us and understand what is possible to do. There are some of the PSD proposals with which the CDS naturally agrees, some of them even coincidentally. There are others with which we are not in agreement, but we are, of course, willing to look at them, to see what can be taken advantage of each one and to understand what is most important to do immediately. Madam Member, I am telling you what you have already said to Mrs Sandra Cunha, a short time ago: we believe that criminal law needs a revision of the rules. It is essential that all criminal legislation be seen in an integrated and cross-cutting manner. We are close to 50 amendments, either to the Criminal Code or to the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's a lot! However, society has changed immensely, the realities are different, the dynamics are different and therefore we need to look systematically at criminal legislation. And that is one of the projects we had in this justice package that must be voted on from here to day. We understand that this is a priority. Nevertheless, there are matters so urgent and so hot that obviously they must be seen with all care, with all caution. Therefore, we are obviously available for this, saying, moreover, that we are very sorry that the other parties in this Chamber have not been willing to present their proposals in the area of justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u188	...in a larger area, which covers the issue of domestic violence but not only. The area of justice has many other areas and is far more comprehensive. We regret that this debate has not been possible in a more open way, with all the parties bringing their proposals for justice in general, in particular for the areas we have presented. I conclude by saying, moreover, that domestic violence is an essential issue, not only violence against women but also violence against the elderly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u191	... which is a subject that we have not been tired of bringing here, to this Parliament. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to approve many of the measures we are advocating, but we are studying so that we can also address this reality, which cannot fail to be seen in these projects that we are now dealing with. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u192	You have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to move forward and not move back. Renegotiating debt, freeing Portugal from submission to the euro and disengageing the country of the budgetary treaty are essential prerequisites for defending our sovereignty. With the struggle of the workers and the people and the intervention of the CFP, it was possible to advance in the defence, replacement and conquest of rights and income, interrupting the policy of the pact of aggression of the troika pursued by the PSD and the CDS and applauded by the European institutions. Advances with rights that have been achieved in countercyclical, with the European Union's impositions, which have sought to stop and prevent their realization by resorting to blackmail and threat. Positive advances which still fall far short of the needs of the people and the country, by choice of the Government and due to the limitations and constraints imposed by the European Union, based on instruments and mechanisms such as the budgetary treaty, economic governance, the Stability Pact or the European Semester, and which successive governments, including the current PS Government, have accepted. Instruments and mechanisms with which the European Union seeks to grossly usurp the sovereignty of the Member States, without promoting the pronouncement of peoples and binding countries on rules without any rationality, which limit and prevent their development. Instruments and mechanisms aimed at condemning peoples to poverty, delay, exclusion and inequality, only to satisfy the interests of the European Union's power directory, the taxation and the flow of public resources, which should be invested in strengthening social rights and enhancing workers' income. The budgetary treaty, whose transposition into the legal framework of the European Union, the European Parliament has now suspended, is an instrument which aims to further condition the budgetary policy of the states, already conditioned by the rules of the euro area, seeking to institutionalize the policies of budgetary restriction at the expense of wages, rights and public investment and to accentuate the mechanisms of blackmail, pressure and interference associated with the euro. The suspension of the process of transposition of the budget treaty does not mean that it does not apply. It remains in force for the countries which have signed it, including Portugal, continuing the conditions for the future. Nothing changes in the conditioning of sovereignty, and you realize why. The political forces — PS, PSD and CDS — which were in accordance with the rules of the budgetary treaty, which do so to Portugal and which rejected the proposals of the CFP for their repeal, together with that of the Stability Pact and all blackmail mechanisms associated with Economic and Monetary Union, which have subject States and peoples to these rules,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u194	You're having a challenge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u195	... are the same political forces that, in governments, keep the country tied to the process of European capitalist integration. In particular, we challenge the PS to clarify its position. If the PS vote in the European Parliament against the transposition of the budgetary treaty into European legislation is not an opportunistic position, then they are in agreement with the CFP for the repeal of the budget treaty or for Portugal to disengage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of our country shows that it is not conciliable to advance towards development and progress, to overcome existing structural deficits, to redistribute wealth more fairly and to ensure social rights and, at the same time, to meet the constraints and limitations imposed by the European Union. The PS and its minority government claim it is, but life shows that it does not. When it comes to solving specific problems, to correspond to the demands of workers and populations, there is always the swindling argument about the goals of the deficit, proving how these European Union taxes weigh on the options of the PS and its government. As it is clear that there are financial resources available, the question is that instead of being channelled to invest in the development of the country, they are extorted and ignored by the Portuguese people on behalf of the taxes of Brussels. The limitations and constraints imposed by the European Union have an impact on the day-to-day life of workers and the people, in particular on the deficit dictatorship, and are responsible for the lack of appreciation of work, workers and their wages, or for refusing to count service time for career progression. They are responsible for the lack of health professionals in the National Health Service, for the non-replacement of obsolete equipment and for the non-construction or requalification of health centres and hospitals. They are responsible for the lack of educational action assistants in schools and for the degradation of the school park. And they are responsible for the lack of investment in public transport, or public investment that enhances cohesion and development, the creation of jobs with rights and the increase in national production. Income must be valued, social rights should be guaranteed in health, education, culture, social protection and housing and public investment, and this requires the refusal of a country bound by the European Union's taxes and the budgetary treaty. Monetary, exchange rate and budgetary policy must be at the service of the national interests and of the people rather than of the great powers that dictate the political guidelines of the European Union. Let us not abdicate our sovereignty, nor allow others to decide what is the responsibility of the Portuguese people to decide. Recovering the instruments of sovereignty is a condition for the development and progress that our country needs and that which the people aspire to. On this side is the CFP: on the side of national development, workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u198	Madam Member, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u199	Mr. President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u200	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, when you listen to your speech, I think that the workers and the people have great doubts. The intervention of V.E.A. was either a misunderstanding or a profound exercise of political hypocrisy, of course. I begin with one point: the European issue. It is understood that this matter is brought to this Parliament in the context of a pre-campaign for European elections and that the CFP has something to say about it. But it is important that the CFP, in a European campaign, once and for all, reject all the instruments of the European Union, rejecting all the institutional architecture of the European Union, rejecting all the support mechanisms for the countries that are part of the European Union, such as that the Portuguese Communist Party reconciles these rejection positions with the greatest requirement, which it always has, of the counterparts of the European Union to Portugal. How, for example, does the Communist authorities intend to continue making investments with European money, then rejecting everything that is a compromise instrument at European level? Mrs Paula Santos, is it wrong or is it hypocrisy? The second question follows. You come here to speak of a set of advantages that the country has, because the CFP supports the government, but then it also speaks of a set of dramas that the country has, because the CFP, after all, has nothing to do with the government. Madam Member, it is also very important for the workers and the people to make this exercise clear. You cannot continue this exercise saying that all that is good is because the PCP votes with the PS, and all that is bad is because the government is only the PS and the PCP has nothing to do with it. Is it wrong or is it hypocrisy? Finally, the budgetary treaty, Mrs Deputies, also the budgetary treaty! You know why? The budgetary treaty was approved in 2012. Do you know which party belongs to all those who have approved the most budgets in this Parliament to comply with the budget treaty? Is it the CDS? Is it the PSD? No, Mrs. Member, it is neither the CDS nor the PSD. The CFP is one of the parties that, here in this Parliament,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... more Budgets approved to comply with the budget treaty and to comply with the requirements of Brussels. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u202	Are those applauses for us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u203	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u204	That is why the question is always the same, Your Honor. Do the workers and the people ask: was this intervention, was it wrong or was it a deep hypocrisy? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u205	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u206	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, we cannot say that we were surprised by the speech of the honourable Member, who is, in fact, widely repeated, always using the same expressions of pressure, interference, blackmail by Europe. Madam Member, I remember that, when Portugal decided to ignore the rules, and they were not yet those of the budgetary treaty, but the basic rules for sound management of public finances, it was our European partners that prevented us from being completely bankrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u207	It's true! [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u208	It is good to remember that, when the rules of public finances were ignored, the country stood on the brink of bankruptcy, without having money to pay wages to the workers and to ensure to the people those rights that the people actually have the right to demand. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] It was the European partners, within the framework of the European institutions, who were able to prevent Portugal from entering this situation as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u210	And we know what cost us all. [[Protests by PCP Members Carla Cruz and Diana Ferreira.]] What really causes us problems, Mrs Deputies, is not the treaties, it is not the stability pact, it is the fact that we have to have sustainable public finances, because if we do not, we need someone to lend us money. And we already know, in harsh pain, what happens, when those who usually finance us refuse to lend. The honourable Member then says that these rules are responsible for all that is missing: for the problems in the National Health Service, schools, transport, public investment, etc. I ask you whether the budget treaty also applies, for example, in Venezuela, where these effects are very serious and where the policies that you are defending are applied. And I assure you, Mrs Deputies, that they live far worse than the Portuguese subject to the so-called pressure and interference of the budget treaty. The honourable Member also said that they did not admit that they were others to determine what sovereign decisions were made by the Portuguese people. I remind the honourable Member that the budgetary treaty, in particular, was approved in this House by the legitimate and democratically elected representatives of the Portuguese people. If the CFP cannot get the Portuguese people to vote in the CFP with sufficient votes to take a majority position, it must democratically respect the majority positions that exist in this House, although we all know that the concept of 'democratic respect' is perhaps something with which the honourable Members. Members have some difficulty in dealing with democracy in which, of course, they do not have the area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u211	What disorientation goes to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u212	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u213	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions raised by Mr João Almeida from the CDS and Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque. I understand the awkwardness of both the PSD and the CDS regarding the issues we have raised about the European Union's taxes and constraints and the consequences they have in our country, because the Portuguese, the workers and the people have not forgotten your responsibilities in the application of the treaty of aggression of the troika, in the cuts in wages, in the cuts in social benefits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u214	No, ma'am, until they voted on us! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u215	... in the privatization of fundamental public services, and what this meant in the degradation of the living conditions of workers and the people and of backwardness and delay in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u216	It meant 89 Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u217	So we understand perfectly that you feel uncomfortable. When it comes to addressing here the specific problems that workers and the Portuguese people feel today, when it comes to the political options that are necessary, obviously, run away and do not want to address them. We also understand your discomfort, because you have cut into workers' incomes and directly attacked fundamental public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u218	They were better than they are now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u219	... and it was with the intervention of the PCP that stayed wages, it was with the intervention of the PCP that resumed the weekly working time within 35 hours, it was with the intervention of the PCP that rested the holidays. This is the truth that it costs you to swallow and, therefore, we understand your discomfort about these matters. [[Protests from PSD MP Maria Luís Albuquerque.]] For us it is very clear, and I believe that for the workers and the people too, that, fortunately, in this new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic was not the PSD and the CDS that ruled, that there was, in fact, another solution that allowed progress, which allowed achievements that we consider insufficient to face the problems that exist in our country today, but, as we say, the way is to move forward and not to walk back. It is to move forward in the recovery of wages and income, which you said was not possible; it is to advance in the increase in pensions, which you also said was not possible, in fact, to prepare themselves — we remember! — to cut EUR 600 million into social security. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] With our intervention, there was an extraordinary increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u220	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u221	This is the truth of the facts and is present in the lives of thousands and thousands of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u222	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u223	For this reason, the path to strengthening health, education, culture, housing, has the condition to break with the European Union's impositions and limitations. This is clear and it is in this way and in this battle that is the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second block of questions, the first of which is the Socialist Party. Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u225	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, indeed a few years ago the Portuguese Communist Party ceased to be an internationalist and I believe that this is evident in the intervention of Mrs Paula Santos. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We know that the Portuguese Communist Party is against membership of the euro and, indeed, Portugal belongs to the euro, Portugal is part of the euro area in the European Union. It's our coin.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u226	It's monetary internationalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u227	As the euro is a single currency it is natural that there are rules. These rules are several and the budgetary treaty is, as I said recently, an intergovernmental treaty which sets out rules for the operation of the euro area. Do we agree with those rules? Don't! We have great reservations about these rules and therefore we voted with the group to which the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block belong in the European Parliament, against the integration of the budgetary treaty into the treaties of the European Union. The EPP, to which the CDS and PSD belong, voted in favour of this integration, as the right group voted in the European Parliament. Having said that, the Government and the Socialist Party understand that the rules have to be complied with and must be complied with, the fundamental question is how we deal with those rules. And it was clear that, with the same rules, the PSD/CDS government followed one policy and the PS government followed another. And this government resumed wages, retired pensions, restored rights, improved public services, and nevertheless complied with the European Union's budgetary rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u228	The last request for clarification is from Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u229	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would also like to congratulate you on your political statement that we have had here today and that you come back to the European issue, specifically the question of the budget treaty. In fact, it is not now the awareness that the Left Block also has on the real meaning of the budget treaty. It has always been an instrument of blackmail on the peoples and on the economic and financial policy of the countries and has served, and still serves, to legitimize austerity measures that have now served, on the one hand, the PSD and CDS, to cut everything that was wages, pensions and social law, now serve, on the other hand, the Socialist Party, of justification for the obsession with the deficit, which increasingly shrinks the public investment capacity that exists in our country. Therefore, since the beginning of our fight against this treaty and, more recently, as mentioned here, the European Commission has wanted to pass it on to Community law, but the European Parliament has rejected this option well, and this has included socialist MEPs. And indeed, this point is important because, after this rejection, the question that is put on the table is how will the different parties be positioned on this subject, here in Portugal. It was clear to us at least that more or less bureaucratic maneuvers by the European Commission cannot be accepted to implement something which has already been rejected by the European Parliament. But on the other hand, it must also be clarified, with this debate, what choice the Socialist Party will make on this matter. If you have rejected the transition from the budgetary treaty to Community law in the European Parliament, you must make a clear choice here too in our country. Therefore, the choice is between fiscal treaty or public investment, between fiscal treaty or health and education. And it was more than clear that at the moment the Socialist Party is on the wall about this matter, but on the wall there are no policies and so it will have to choose one side or the other. from the Left Block, we choose the side of public investment, to give security to citizens, with public health and education, and not with blackmail instruments, as is the budget treaty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u230	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u231	Mr President, I am also grateful for the questions put by Mrs Margarida Marques and Mrs Isabel Pires. I wanted to begin by saying that the replacement, defense, conquest of rights and incomes that could be achieved in this new phase of national political life was made against the will of the European Union itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u232	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u233	... that often and often threatened our country with regard to the political options that were being adopted. And even the desire of the European Union to pursue the previous path of troika, impoverishment and exploitation, which was being followed by PSD and CDS. But it is also true that the current minority government of the Socialist Party does not release from this set of limitations and constraints and from the country's submission to these conditionalities that are currently preventing the development of our country. Mrs Margarida Marques said that they also do not agree with a set of rules and rules at this level, but the fact is that in our country, not only do they accept them all as the Socialist Party has not had the willingness to give a set of answers that are necessary to the Portuguese workers and people. Therefore, Mrs. Member, it must be borne in mind that, when the government refuses to value careers and wages, because it is obsessed with the deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u234	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u235	... this means that the limitations and impositions of the European Union are preventing this development. When the Socialist Party does not give the full response to the National Health Service and to the public school, because once again it opts for the obsessive reduction of the deficit, or when the Socialist Party and its minority government choose not to make the necessary investment in public transport or public investment to respond to the development of our country, and effectively opt for the reduction of the deficit, this makes it clear that the current government is tied to the European Union's taxes. It is important that the side on which the Socialist Party stands be clarified. Mrs Margarida Marques once again made the reference today that they voted against the transposition of the content of the budget treaty into the legal framework of the European Union. But if it wasn't an opportunistic position, then what translation is it going to have in our country? What translation is this going to have in the position of the Socialist Party in relation to Portugal's revocation and disengagement of a treaty which is already more than demonstrated clearly an obstacle and an impediment to the development and progress of our country? Oh, my God! For the CFP, and to conclude, Mr President, it is very clear that our development goes through the recovery of the instruments of sovereignty and for this it is a fundamental condition to free our country from all the taxes and constraints that at nothing contribute to our development, but indeed to our backwardness. It is this fight that the PCP will, firmly, continue to block. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the following political statement. On behalf of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works began its work this week on a long and intense working day in the districts of Vila Real and Braga, taking on the agenda three important subjects: the PIN project ( potential national interest) Aquanattur, in the Salgadas Stones, the possible exploitation of lithium in Barroso and the problems the textile sector faces today in the north of the country and in particular in the Vale do Ave. We are therefore faced with three relevant issues for the local population, but also for the country, and, without wishing to minimize the importance of the remaining issues that have led the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to the north of the country, The Greens today bring to discussion the topic relating to the project PIN de Pedras Salgadas. in this context, the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works had the opportunity to listen to those interested in this project, from the population, through the Association of Friends of Salgadas Stones, the Municipal Chamber of Vila Pouca de Aguiar and the Board of Freguesia de Bornes de Aguiar, as well as the Super Bock Group, promoter of the project PIN Aquanattur. In addition to these meetings, we also had the opportunity to visit the Salgadas Stone Thermal Park, which allowed us to have an idea about the assessment of the degree of compliance of the commitments made by the project promoter, which, as we know, was considered a project of relevant national interest. As is public, The Greens have always been against the system of PIN projects, and have, in fact, presented bills to eliminate them. However, since these legislative initiatives do not deserve the reception of the majority of parliamentary banks, the Greens believe that it is of interest, however, to ensure the presence of public interest in existing PIN projects, from the point of view of the need for full compliance by the promoters of the commitments made with the State. In fact, the general feeling of citizens is that companies receive financial and fiscal incentives and often fail to comply with their share. This is what happened in the Salgadas Stones, whose populations have long been reporting the failure of the promoter to comply with the commitments made. In the view of the populations, but also of the Municipal Chamber of Vila Poca de Aguiar and the Board of Freguesia de Bornes de Aguiar, to Unite, now Super Bock Group, is killing or letting the thermal nature that has been characterized by the thermal village of Salgadas Stones more than a century ago. It is recalled that the thermal renewal and tourist offer in Salgadas Stones constituted the central foundation for the allocation of tax benefits and such generous financial incentives by the State to the Super Bock Group. And it is true that in this visit we have been able to see what has been done and what is lacking — and each of the Members will make an assessment of the fulfilment of the commitments by the promoter, in view of what we have seen and heard — but there is, however, an element that is central in this process and on which everyone will certainly be questioned, because this, certainly, has no one seen. I refer, of course, to the thermal and tourist dynamics of Salgadas Stones. In fact, the thermal renewal and the tourist offer in Pedras Salgadas is not being verified nor will it be possible, in fact, with the valuable infrastructures of the park literally closed and others to the abandonment and, above all, without having a single hotel. And now we ask: where is the deep remodeling of the Salgadas Stones Park, with the construction of hotel, cultural, sports, social and tourist infrastructures of quality, promised by Unicer, now Super Bock Group? Oh, my God! Let's see! The Avelames Hotel has been promised to be rehabilitated to raise it to a higher category. The hotel, which had been rebuilt in 1995 with Community funds, was demolished in 2010 and, according to the population, a large part of the entulo was buried in the park itself, which, to be confirmed, will represent a real environmental crime. As if it were little, today, neither a rehabilitated hotel, nor Hotel Avelames, nor a superior hotel. It was also promised to create a new hotel unit for recovery of the Grand Hotel. Today, the hotel is still in ruins, literally leaving, falling slowly and, as we can see, serving as a garbage dump. A real light in the open sky. The old garages were subjected to intervention, but are closed. Vila Adriana is in a state of total abandonment. The minigolfe is in ruins. The casino has been remodeled, but without any regular activity, not to say that "it is to flies" in most of the time. Regarding the requalification of the marginal area of the river Avelames, through the implementation of a thematic garden today, the populations of Salgadas Stones continue without seeing any thematic garden and the requalification ended up being done by the Municipal Chamber. As for the sources, only the Salgadas Stone Source is open to the public during the summer; the Great Alkaline only serves to show the building and all other sources are closed, some until the abandonment. However, in view of this scenario, it is not surprising that people feel completely disappointed in watching the death of their thermal village, because they do not see the creation of jobs, which are so lacking in a strongly unprotected interior region, nor do they see the promised hotels for tourists who want to enjoy thermalism. But like the populations and the authorities themselves, the Greens also believe that it is still possible to reborn the thermalism in Salgadas Stones. With or without Unicer, with or without Super Bock Group, it is still possible to reborn the thermal nature and to do justice to the designation « Vila Termal » of Salgadas Stones. But this case should also make us reflect on the imperative need to definitely eliminate the regime associated with these projects of relevant national interest, which, by the way, only interest the promoters. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u238	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, five Mr. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u239	I'll answer three and then two gentlemen. Members, together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u240	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, we welcome the Greens' initiative to bring to this debate the reality that the Committee on Economic Affairs had the opportunity to meet in the field during the visit to Salgadas Stones. In contact with the populations, companies, associations and institutions of that region, what the deputies heard in Pedras Salgadas were concerns about the project of potential national interest Aquanattur. These concerns meet the position that the PCP has long defended, with regard to PIN projects. With the invocation of national interest, certain projects obtain tax benefits and financial incentives, and are subtracted from national ecological and agricultural reserves, with damage to the environment. In return, expectations are created in the populations that, by this way, will be able to move forward with projects that will be important for the local economy and for job creation, expectations, these, which are often defrauded—just see that about a third of PIN projects go into insolvency or have to deliver assets to the bank. in this case, we have a PIN project whose rational attribution was, in addition to the industrial project, the requalification and environmental certification of the Termal Parque de Pedras Salgadas, valuing its natural, architectural and historical heritage. Now, this part of the project has not been fulfilled. There is no hotel operating in Salgadas Stones, the Park's heritage is in a state of degradation, the promised jobs have not been created. The Unicer, or Super Bock Group, has limited itself to fulfilling the part of the project’s “lombo”, which is the industrial project. But the question we have to ask is the following: what follow-up has AICEP ( Portugal's Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ) given to the governments to this situation? The economic group itself told the Commission that AICEP approved with it everything that has been done. Is this the role that AICEP and the government should play? Are they limited to reviewing the objectives in favour of the promoter? Shouldn't they fight for these projects to fulfill what was defined? Oh, my God! I therefore ask you, Mr President, what you think should be done in this case and it is also considered that this is another example of how the exceptionalities allowed for PIN projects should be questioned, which produce extensive tax benefits and financial incentives, especially for large economic groups, often in exchange for little more than nothing to be seen, in terms of national interest and population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u242	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the PSD congratulates the Greens Ecologist Party on bringing this issue to debate in the Assembly of the Republic. The subject justifies it. As you know, I myself accompanied this visit by the Committee on Economics to the districts of Vila Real and Braga and, in fact, I also accompanied the visit to the Super Bock project and participated in our contacts with the populations and the authorities. Mr President, perhaps for the sake of the debate, we would not gain much, even because it is highly questionable, to start to see whether the contract has been very fulfilled or not, whether or not it has been fulfilled Article 24. o or point 36 ). What we have detected there and what can be left for future memory is that, in fact, it seems difficult to have projects of this importance that are built against local populations. When the people of Saldada Stones stop talking about their place, their term and refer to them as theirs, there is a divorce here that is very difficult to overcome. So it seems to us that, first of all, the most serious of all will be the divorce or lack of dialogue that exists between the Super Bock Group and the Authority itself. It seems to us that it is first and foremost that we must go and not try to remove from this case or from this example the definitive conclusion that all PIN projects are good or that all PIN projects are bad. Even because, as we realized at the meetings we had, it was not very clear whether compliance or non-compliance. It was very clear that people no longer felt that area, that activity, as they were. And when it was promised or when this thermal village was intended to be reinvigorated, the truth is that, and we all recognize it, it didn't happen. There is something to be done, but I ask you whether the question, here, is essentially a question of dialogue and implementation of the project or whether it is considered to be a matter of contract, compliance with a point or an article. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u244	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u245	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, our congratulations for being so quick to apply those which are our common conclusions, before the visit that the Economic Commission made to the project of Salgadas Stones and the meeting you had with the project promoter, or with the various entities who had intervention in the project. The first question that your intervention raises concerns the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 211 / 2016, which, on the basis of a draft resolution from the Greens, expressly recommends that the Government develop the necessary measures to fully comply with the commitments undertaken under the PIN Aquanattur Project in Salgadas Stones. What we, as the Committee on Economic Affairs, went to the site to see whether or not the project was being accomplished and we found ourselves in a rather unusual situation. We know—and, Mr Paulo Rios, I am sorry to say to you, I do not certainly read the PIN Project in question — that there are a number of dimensions of the PIN Aquanattur project that have not been completely and simply fulfilled. But the curious question is that, at the meeting that took place in Salgadas Stones with the Unicer/Super Bock Board of Directors, it was expressly said by the CFO (financial chief officer) — the financial officer — who, moreover, said to perceive more finance than tourism, who, in the understanding of the administration, did everything they intended to do within the framework of the Aquanattur Project. Well, when the PIN Aquanattur Project is available on the websites of the Ministry of Economics, IAPMEI (Agence for Competitiveness and Innovation) and AICEP itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u246	Mr. Heitor de Sousa has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u247	... when we can make a comparison between what is in the project and what is actually completed—because we have been there—when we have that statement from the financial representative of the Board of Directors and we have nothing to support it, it is at least absolutely inappropriate to conclude it, Mr. Paulo Rios. Therefore, Mr. Paulo Rios, the Left Block Parliamentary Group divorces itself completely from the analysis it has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u248	The political declaration is from the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u249	You know why? Because, as the PSD Parliamentary Group and we all say, contracts are to fulfill, my dear friend, contracts are to fulfill!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u250	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u251	What Unicer should have done, at this time, 10 years after the project began to be implemented, was its full compliance. But he didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u252	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u253	Therefore, the question I leave to you, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, is in the sense of knowing what measures the Government believes the Government should take to ensure that the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic is fully fulfilled and that the project is resumed or returned to the citizens of Salgadas Stones. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u254	You now have the floor to answer this first set of requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u255	Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Duarte Alves, the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Paulo Rios, the PSD, and Mr Heitor de Sousa, the Left Block. Mr Duarte Alves, in fact the project had two components — the industrial component and the thermal or tourist component — and, in relation to the industrial part, there is nothing to say. What moves us is the thermal and tourist nature of which is also the project. And I would also like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Heitor de Sousa — who has very well remembered the Greens' resolution, which has been adopted without votes against, I would like to say that what we consider essential is that, by not being able to force the Super Bock Group to fulfil its commitments, there are only two solutions: to renegotiate the contract, in order to guarantee the central objectives which they have chaired for the allocation of tax benefits — I am talking about the dynamization of thermal life and the tourist offer — or, if not, making use of the mechanism which the investment contract itself provides, which is the unilateral termination of the contract, since there is indeed a breach. And in this case, there would be a need for the State itself to regain everything that the Unicer, now Super Bock Group, has received, from tax benefits and incentives. Then, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, the question is not a question, the question is not a question of dialogue. In fact, if you voted in favour of our draft resolution, it was certainly because the PSD considered that there was failure on the part of the project promoter. If you think that it is because of the dialogue that hotels are being built, it is considered that it is because of the dialogue that the thermal activity in Salgadas Stones is dynamized, that is the philosophy of Mr Paulo Rios, in which The Greens are in no way reverberated. In fact, what is interesting here is that the central objective which chaired the allocation of tax benefits and financial incentives to an economic group had as its counterpart the task of reviving thermal life in Salgadas Stones. And the honourable Member certainly realized how early things were, because the Commission's own Members could not stay overnight in Salgadas Stones, since there was no single hotel. And as for the hotels that have been rebuilt by Unicer inside the park, one, the Hotel Avelames, which had been built with public money, was demolished, apparently even buried within the park itself, and the Grand Hotel is like Mr. So, if you think that if Unicer calls the people there and talks with them, the hotel suddenly looks good this is a magical solution for which I doubt that you have powers, and much less you have them to Uniter or Super Bock Group. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u256	We moved on to the second round of requests for clarification. To this end, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u257	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I think the « EUR 1 million question », on this initiative of the Ecological Party « The Greens », which I also welcome, is this: what would have been the request that the Unicer administrator, Pires de Lima, have made to the Minister of Economy Pires de Lima, when he agreed to renegotiate the investment contract that was planned for the Vidago / Salgadas Stones project? In fact, what we have found is a partially completed project, but it was renegotiated in the previous government. So when the administrator of the current Super Bock Group says "we are fulfilling what we are obliged to do", eventually that will be true. We will have to clarify with AICEP if the renegotiation effectively implied what we saw, from the point of view of the project reformulation, but we must realize that at this time, what is needed is to give a very positive note to this process, since the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group felt on this visit to the site that there are conditions to revitalize a territory with exceptional natural resources and that it has a capacity to attract and develop thermal tourism, Europeanly, exceptional. Therefore, we need to create conditions not to undermine all the effort that has been made so far, but so that AICEP can, in concert with the investor, rehabilitate and recover what is missing to recover and rehabilitate in this project. The question that I put to the honourable Member has exactly to do with that. In fact, despite what was their description of the current situation, what we have seen was a very strong will of the populations and authorities involved in this project to do more and better. Therefore, I ask you whether, rather than regaining the past time, we will be able to build, in conjunction with efforts, a project capable of responding to new needs and what is today thermal tourism, which has very different characteristics from those we have lived in the past, because it has today the capacity to be a European and global sales product. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u258	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u259	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I would like to congratulate you and ask you for two clarifications. A first clarification is factual. In fact, the populations, the autoarchs and the elected Members have demonstrated, in their visit, that the Economic Commission had the opportunity to do, either to exploit lithium in Barroso or the Salgadas Stones, a passion for what it is, an intransigent defense of what it is, and that is to praise. But on the other hand, there is a project of national interest, which has complied with all the rules and which has been drawn up between the authorities, the promoter of the company concerned and the Government of the Republic. This same project was discussed in committee with the presence of AICEP, who has the guardianship or who controls the execution of the project. And the fact is that the company said — and said it in front of the autoarchies and the population — without any doubt the following: « We have fulfilled all that we have proposed». Having said that, I am not starting with the principle that the company, because it is private, but the population, who legitimately had and has an expectation that, by the way — which was also clear — does not fit the project and the plan that the company has for that park, is lying. So, what part is missing here to hear? It is the part of tourism in Portugal, AICEP, the Government, in particular the Secretary of State for Tourism, since tourism in health and well-being is part of the PENT, one of the strategic plans that the Secretary of State and the Government of the Republic assume. And I made the invitation, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to have AICEP present. As you know, AICEP said yes, but it appeared the next day, when we were talking about matter that had nothing to do with the Saldade Stones, and I asked why AICEP had not been present at a meeting where the autarchs, the promoter and the population were, and where this matter was discussed. In view of this, your intervention should only be in order to ask the Government and the public authorities what they are doing and who is not doing it. This, in order to understand the situation, instead of saying that no more projects of potential national interest can be done, which cannot be trusted in private companies, which cannot be trusted in promoters. It is the government that does not comply with its basic obligation to control, monitor and enforce what it signs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u260	So I am waiting — I have already made the request to AICEP, even before the visit, and I have advised the parliamentary groups that I have made this request in writing — that AICEP tell us what is the point of the project situation, what is being accomplished and what is missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u261	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u262	Until this very moment, I do not have, the Commission does not have, the Members do not have any information from AICEP on what is or is not met. What's left? The answer is clearly and simply given by the Super Bock Group Board of Directors when it says: "We have fulfilled everything we proposed with the Portuguese State."
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u263	Privates may also be lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u264	Therefore, either the government is lying, or the government is ruling, or you, who support the government, are trying, within your management, to understand what is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u265	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u266	There is one thing that the CDS is going to do, which is to put questions both to the Secretary of State for Tourism and to the Tourism of Portugal, and to the AICEP. Tomorrow, there will be an opportunity for that, since we will have a hearing by Mr Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u267	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u268	I shall finish by saying that the honourable Member, tomorrow, also has a good opportunity, since we will have a hearing by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to ask his Government what he has been doing so far and what is going on in the Saldada Stones. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u269	The CDS was able to respond by the Unicer Board of Directors!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u270	Sir, don't hurt me, but turn a two-minute question into a three-minute question and 20 seconds...! To answer the two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u271	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga and Mr. Hélder Amaral asked the questions. Mr. Hélder Amaral, the question cannot be asked only to this government, as the project should already be completed before this government takes possession. But since you have spoken about it, let me tell you something, with what I am taking advantage of to answer Mr. Ricardo Bexiga also, on the question of adding to the contract in 2012. Mr. Hélder Amaral said that the contract was made together with the Authority, the State, AICEP and Unicer at the time, now Super Bock Group. But you know what happened, Mr. Hélder Amaral? In 2012, the PSD and CDS government added to the investment contract by reducing the number of jobs to be created, from 110 to 58. But that wasn't even the worst. The worst thing is that the government then made this addition to the contract with Unicer at the time without having consulted the municipal chamber. In other words, in 2005, when there was a need for 'green light' for IMI exemptions from all the real estate we saw in that park, and even in the factory, the Authority is called to give 'green light', but when an addition is made to reduce the number of jobs the autarchy is not held or found in the process. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, it is true that there is a protocol that obliges Uniter to deliver €20,000 per year to the board. However, Unicer, with 10 years' delay in this compromise, has the opportunity to say — in fact, it was seen during the meeting that Mr Hélder Amaral mentioned — that only meets what he took 10 years ago if the municipal chamber now gives him one or two more holes to explore the water. So it seems that whoever rules here is money, it's economic power and not political power. Then, Mr. Hélder Amaral, it is true that people live in the park as if they were from the populations, indeed, even a resource like water. Here in Lisbon there is the Cultural Center of Belém ; the populations of the Salgadas Stones had the thermal park. They had the doors closed for four years, because Unicer closed the park; today, as we have heard the populations say, asks for exorbitance to rent the space. Often, people can't even take pictures there, because Unicer doesn't make it available. So the issue here is not just about this government. It is true that now it is necessary to see what will be done for the future. The resolution adopted by the Greens, without a vote against, also called on this Government to comply fully with the contract. But the problem is not just the last four years; the problem comes from behind. In fact, the big question in this process is the addition of 2012, whose scope we are still to understand, because I have already heard Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, who is now not in the room, saying that one of the hotels was in exchange for the eco-houses, but the eco-houses were not part of the project, have nothing to do with the project. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u272	We continue with the political statements, as this is the only topic on our agenda. You now have the floor for this purpose in accordance with Article 71 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mahatma Gandhi said simple and wise words, which I quote: "You will never know the outcome of your actions. But if you do nothing, there will be no results». The initiatives I take in this legislative session all have an uncertain result. Regardless of their outcome, they are seeds I throw here. It may take months or years, but I am fully convinced that some will sprout. The quality of democracy and the economic, social and environmental development of a country, or of the European Union, depend on the quality of its rules and institutions. The improvement of the political system is made with small reforms aimed at, among other things, strengthening national autonomy and citizen participation. Today, I am dealing with only two rules, one European, one national, which affect the quality of democracy and public policy. The first rule involves two different democratically legitimate bodies: the European Commission and the Portuguese Government. The aim is to define the "medium-term objective" for public finances in Portugal from 2020 to 2022. The difference between what the European Commission believes should be this target for 2019 ( + 0, 25 % of GDP) and what could be ( - 0, 5 % of GDP) is EUR 1500 million per year, i.e. EUR 4500 million in three years. Having a small deficit, without jeopardising the debt weight reduction dynamics, would facilitate the social sustainability of budgetary policy; it would still allow for some additional budgetary margin, either to reduce taxes, or to accommodate necessary increases in public expenditure, or for both. On the other hand, having a structural budget balance greater than what is necessary to keep public accounts in order is a double mistake: it causes unnecessary slowdown in economic growth and undermines the social sustainability of budgetary policy. in this sense, I presented here a draft resolution to recommend to the Government a negotiation with the European Commission, the effect of which would be to maintain the current fiscal consolidation, thus avoiding both budgetary laxism and financial imbalance, or its opposite, an additional excessive effort on Portuguese families and companies. The PS was the only party that voted against this project, which led to its rejection. I wonder, then, whether the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has realized the extent of what it was voting on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u274	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u275	In fact, the vote to maintain the medium-term objective means to require Portugal to have a primary surplus of 4, 5 % of GDP by 2021, i.e. EUR 9 billion of primary surplus. Does the PS Parliamentary Group have the notion of budgetary implications in the coming years of reducing tips in higher education, defrosting careers and wage updates in public service, new subsidies to support informal caregivers, hiring more doctors and nurses? I don't think so. It is not possible to improve the quality of public services and at the same time wish to have surpluses of this kind. We were used to seeing PSD and CDS go beyond the troika, but having the PS accept the reduction of the national democratic decision area and going beyond the budget treaty—I repeat, beyond the budget treaty! — it does not cease to be contradictory and worrying. We only hope that the PS Government will be more realistic and less conservative than its Parliamentary Group has shown here. A second rule for strengthening the quality of democracy relates to the scope of legislative initiatives for citizens. Today, 20 000 signatures are required for citizens to submit bills in the Assembly of the Republic. They may, for example, have a legislative initiative to keep hospital pharmacies open, as recently approved, but if they want to have an initiative to change the electoral system — in my view, an essential ingredient for the reform of the political system — 20 000 or half a million signatures cannot achieve it. This is because the law in force prevents citizens from submitting projects in relation to matters of the absolute reserve domain of the Assembly of the Republic, with one exception: the foundations of education. What is the constitutional argument behind this restriction on the citizens' initiative? Is there? It doesn't exist. Is there any reason for citizens not to be able to present a proposal for reform of the electoral system, defined more than 40 years ago, which only allows voting in parties and not, too, to customize voting in candidates? There isn't. Does the citizens' legislative initiatives diminish the role or exclusive competences of the Assembly of the Republic? No, no, no. It is solely for the Assembly of the Republic to deliberate, approve or reject, and, in the case of general approval, to amend those bills in the specialty. Why, then, unnecessarily limit the citizen initiative? I don't understand. The appropriate strengthening of citizens' rights improves the quality of democracy. Mr President, I conclude with the following idea: we do not need, nor are there, major reforms of the political system, but some small reforms that strengthen European and national democracy. Without them, the path to vulnerability and perhaps the decline of democracies becomes more likely. We can prevent that from happening, it's up to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u276	No one hits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u277	No registrations for requests for clarification were made to Mrs Isabel Moreira in accordance with Article 76 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is anything that has been globalized it was racism. The championship of which society is more or less racist makes no sense; all societies that participated in the colonial process or that benefited from it are -it is. It's structural and historical. The problem is the old official discourse of denial. The space for a constructive and continuous debate is park, as if to talk about racism were to increase racism. Here, we have a historic debt with the anti-racist social movement and with black and gypsy communities, because they have forced Portugal to see what the country is doing. We must internalize the issue of racism and its fight and do so as a political programme. The constituent legislator in Article 13. , paragraph 2, enumerated the discrimination factors identified in society, with undeniable historical weight, and gave them special protection. The Basic Law, by electing the ‘breed’ as one of these factors, reflects the certainty that racial discrimination exists. There are no ‘breeds’, but there are categories of people condemned to be identified with this old and outdated concept created in European expansion and colonialism.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u280	That is why I am among those who enjoy the privilege, because they are not discriminated against, that they have not been and are not racialized. Even the poor white has the poor black under him. With regard to racialization, the fact that the racialized person is perceived as such before all other identities and resources that have an obvious negative weight. The mechanism for filing complaints of racism and xenophobia, this year alone, has accounted for more than 200 complaints. To talk about structural racism means to realize that these people are discriminated against in all social, political and legal structures. These structures were not born in Mars, so discrimination is there and reports, such as the Report on Portugal, of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, of the Council of Europe, should lead us to reflect and act. The power that the far-right and neo-Nazi nationalist groups may be gaining in Portugal is worrying about this body of the Council of Europe, in particular as regards some agents who infiltrate the police. Looking at these data is not incitement to hatred or claiming that all the police are racist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u282	It is first not to deny a problem, for the benefit of the community and the PSP institution itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u284	Moreover, structural and institutional racism is in education, access to employment, health, public services, housing, justice. Is it normal that the incarceration rate of the PALOP population ( African Portuguese-speaking countries) is 15 times higher than the rest? Oh, my God! To talk about this is not to diabolize health or justice. To talk about racism is not to incite hatred. Invisibility of those who have to be part of April and the Avenue of Freedom is, yes, intolerable. We must recognize that when we create ghettos for black people and gypsies, far from the city and the possibilities of the city, we are complicit in such structural racism, and the numbers available show discrimination and lack of opportunity. To talk about racism against silence, he said. That is why I commend Mr Hélder Amaral or the Minister of Justice for publicly testifying against invisibility. This is not incitement to hate, but decency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u286	To deny racism must remain for racists, so active in social networks in recent times. Defending the Constitution, fundamental rights, institutions free of stains and a society in which black people and gypsies cease to be the 'other' is for democrats and requires a political programme. It therefore demands that ethnic-racial statistical data be collected for the 2021 censuses by self-identification and for equal opportunities policies. In any case, looking at the data we already have for the PALOP population, we know that, for example, in the average monthly remunerations they earn € 104 less than the rest of the population; and discrimination continues, and that the percentage of this population to occupy the worst jobs is three times higher than the rest. The unemployment rate, in turn, is twice that of the non-PALOP population. This means that it is our duty to take a political position, to take positive employment policies. One of the difficulties we have is to identify a black person as Portuguese. Years and years of claiming nationality on the basis of the criterion of blood, even if now mitigated, leads the skin to tell more about the intuitive integration of the other than the fact that this other is part of the community because it was born here, or because it works here, and collaborates like anyone else to the city. « Is it Portuguese? "Is it Portuguese? », even on the news, we heard this absurd question, and I don't need to say what the color of the skin of the visas. The right way is to be Portuguese who is born in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u288	Let's talk about all this! We are talking about pilot projects in the area of racial discrimination, such as in the areas of gender and disability. Let's talk about the figure of the sociocultural mediator. Let's diagnose the prison situation of non-white people. Let us make a policy in this cross-cutting area in all areas of governance. We recognize the voice and power of men and women who know what they are talking about, because they are the place of speech. I know we've done something, and I'm talking to the left that I belong to, but I know they expect a lot more from us. We take this fight as the structure of our political identity. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u289	There are two inscriptions to request clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u290	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u291	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Moreira, it is not really a request for clarification that I would like to make to you, but, in fact, I am using this regiment figure to give you an echo of what your speech, which I would like to welcome, has caused me and this parliamentary group. I would like to stress the clarity of many of his words, about the colonial disaster that is present in this issue, in the discourse of denial as one of the main problems to be faced here, in the support that expressed to a basic principle that those who are born in Portugal must be Portuguese. You're right, Mrs. Deputy! Racism is a gross attack on human rights; racism itself is a decrease in democracy. And it's bad for anyone to think, who thinks that racism is just what is expressed in rude words or in primary gestures. It's not! Racism is much more than that! As the honourable Member very well expressed in her speech, today we are faced with the existence of this primary racism, but also, above all, with the existence of an institutionalized racism, a structural racism that is expressed in institutional culture, expressed in school programmes, which is expressed in as many expressions as normal, as natural. That is the essential danger we must face. It is racism that naturalizes stereotypes, as the honourable Member has expressed in her speech. It is racism that makes people or groups racialized into natural discrimination of certain measures, in natural targets, all this between quotes, of course, of suspicion, of criminalization and also of gossip in our societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u293	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u294	I will finish, Mr. President. There is something new that we cannot but underline: the coming to the streets of so many young people who do not resign themselves to this situation, of young people who face a clear movement of anti-racist struggle. By the side of the Block, it is with this youth and with all those people we want to make the way! It is a difficult path, but it is an absolutely necessary way to make democracy more worthy of that name. We are absolutely sure that the honourable Member is also following this line of reasoning. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u295	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Moreira, we have asked to speak about her speech, not only to greet her and to greet her, but to say that we converge and agree with much of what she said, although we do not agree with everything she said. That is exactly why we asked for the floor. We believe that the anti-racist struggle must be waged without any hesitation, without any hesitation, condemning all expressions of racism manifested in Portuguese society, they assume the forms they take, whether on the social networks, either through acts of the State, either in interventions by public authorities, or in any interventions by any public, private, singular or collective entities. In any event, racism must be condemned. What we do not agree with in your intervention is when you qualify Portugal as a racist country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u298	We do not agree with that qualification. More: we consider that the anti-racist struggle is not and can never be understood as a struggle against Portuguese society or a fight against Portuguese people, for the same reason that the anti-colonial struggle was not a fight against the Portuguese people or against Portugal, it was a fight against Portuguese fascism that colonized other peoples. It seems to us that the anti-racist struggle is a struggle to be waged with Portuguese society, to be waged with Portuguese, against all racists who exist in Portugal and manifest themselves. It was at this point that I wanted to make clear some ideological demarcation, if you would, in relation to the way in which it was expressed. The anti-racist struggle is not against Portuguese, it is not against Portuguese society. It is made with Portuguese society by a more decent society, by a healthier society, where any racist manifestations should not take place, because they are against Portugal and against Portuguese. That's what I wanted to leave here. That is why, of course, I would like to tell you that, in the anti-racist conviction expressed by the rostrum, you can always count on the positions of the CFP, considering that we are taking a position next to the Portuguese people and in the conviction that what we stand for firmly, in combating any manifestations of racism, are convictions with which the Portuguese people deeply identify themselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u299	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Moreira now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u300	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr. Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr António Filipe asked the questions. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, I just want to thank you for your words and say that I also look at what you have said and even at the heart of what provokes me this newness of youth to be saying that the street is also her and to occupy the Avenue of Liberty, because, as someone wrote, until it is normal that the street is the place of the complaint, that the Avenue of Liberty, the centre of Lisbon, is the place of the complaint of the people who live today watched today we do not live precisely on 25 April, but on «24 and half», and I do not want to stay for «24 and half». Mr António Filipe, it is clear that the anti-racist struggle is made with the Portuguese and not against the Portuguese. However, I must say that I am a little tired of this question of people feeling offended when it is said that Portugal is a racist country, because when we say that Portugal is a sexist country nobody gets upset. We're going to the street with posters to answer the sexist justice, the sexist country we have. Sexism is identified in society, is identified in institutions and we know we have a sexist country. When we make this diagnosis, we are not saying that all Portuguese are sexists, we are not saying that all people in all institutions are sexists, we are not saying that all judges and judges are sexists! But it is identified that structurally there is a problem of sexism in Portugal! Therefore, we say that Portugal is a sexist country, of course, otherwise the women who die per year would not die, apart from the other problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u301	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u302	And the same is true of homophobia! We have a history with a recent colonial past that has evidently reflected, with a propaganda that still has its reflections today, that you know very well about the Luso-tropicalism, with a forced work past that ended legally in 1961 but that ended much later — we have reflections of all this — and we also have conditional acts that I do not say they are for harm, but that reflect such latent racism, even if there is no will to do that racism. When a school feels good to discuss the theme "Races" and, for that, tells students to dress in black, to paint black and to put some carabinha imitations on their heads, to represent Africa with that, I think it is said that there is a problem here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u303	There's a fool's problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u304	There's a problem, because, of course, not to realize the offense it poses is serious. First of all, I think this is not the way the issue is being discussed, but from now on, I imagine that there are black students and black students in Matosinhos who, « by default», will already be masked! These are serious things that happen, in addition to all that racism I have been describing from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u305	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u306	I'm done now, Mr. President. When I say that Portugal is a racist country, I am not saying this against the Portuguese. I say and take in myself, I repeat, in myself, the interiorization of this racism, from the moment of my birth, as it is evident, as I have internalized sexism, as I have internalized homophobia. I grew up with those factors that were identified in society and I fought to get rid of them. So we all have that. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u307	under Article 76 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take advantage of this end of the session to bring about a problem that concerns me. There is a widespread feeling of revolt in the face of unequal treatment that is given to non-compliances in our country. The punishment is maximum for the small and soft or nonexistent for the great. See the case of the New Bank. It inherited from BES huge inequalities in its balance sheet—parity is obviously an euphemism for « holes», that is what the people call them. Much of these inequalities are the responsibility of the BES (Banco Espírito Santo) and of those who directed it. BES was one of the great real estate owners of Portugal, who had land and real estate with excellent locations but had, as it is usually said, « more eyes than belly», overrated what he had. I know this leverage phenomenon well. I know that it is through the architects and the autarchs that manufactures what I have long called 'new coin' : square meters of construction. It is about multiplying, through successive urban decisions, the value of the property. It is not necessary to execute the work, it is sufficient to obtain approval of the projects with the changes of use and of the building space that are intended. The New Bank's breakdown is now under way. In the cleaning of the balance sheet you have been making, non-strategic real estate assets are being sold, to waste and with large losses, to the first one that appears. In general, a hedge fund, another euphemism for abutre background. Last December, the promise contract of the New Bank's Viriato Project was consumed. The real estate portfolio, with an accounting value of EUR 717 million, consisted of 8726 properties with different uses — residential, industrial, commercial and land — was sold to Anchorage Capital Group, which paid only EUR 389 million. A bell. On the way, the corresponding impartiality was cleared from the balance sheet and the loss adds to the others that the results of the New Bank reflect. Of course, it is true that the hole will once again be covered by the Resolution Fund with the aid of a millionaire loan from the State. Could it be otherwise? It could, but the path chosen was this complex contingent capitalization mechanism, also known by Mrs Catarina Martins, by « Maria Albertina », which is no longer a posthumous attempt to control damage through the rest of the bank and the state. I admit that the simple nationalization of the New Bank, which is defended by some benches in this House, could have higher costs, as the Prime Minister has already said. But there is already a few billion euros and the process has not yet been completed. I do not even know the exact dimension of the New Bank's inequalities, in particular those resulting from real estate assets, but, as we have seen, it will be colossal. The question I bring to you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple: since, directly or indirectly, we are all called upon to pay to maintain the trust of depositors and the stability of the financial system, since the nationalisation of the New Bank, which some here defend, has been discarded, because there is no such thing as the non-strategic real estate of the New Bank in the possession of the State? Why is it passively accepted that it is sold to waste, even above when the market is overheated, when after all we need 'as bread for mouth' from public real estate to housing? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the future housing law is under discussion. We know that in Portugal, unlike most of Europe, only 2 % of the country's housing resources are public and the remaining 98 % are private. Let me make a point: 2 % public is divided into 0, 2 % of the state and 1, 8 % of the municipalities. I repeat, 0, 2 % of the state. It is impossible, in my view, to guarantee the constitutional right to housing, which is the responsibility of the State, from such a small capacity, so ridiculous even. What to do, then? From that point on, the State must move forward whenever large real estate portfolios are traded at a balance price, as is happening. The Viriato Project is not the only child. Not long ago, Fidelity sold close to 2500 buildings for 425 million euros, of which it also received only one part. It was another missed opportunity. But the New Bank case has an aggravating. It is that the State is required to help bear the losses to the bank becoming desirable for the resale, yes, certainly profitable, for whom nothing paid for the acquisition. There are more buildings in the street to succeed the Viriato Project. In my opinion, it is more than the time of the state to open the radar. I don't know exactly, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am not a specialist in these matters, which will be the best technical solution. I do not know whether it is a right of preference of the State, if it is a greater requirement of control, if it is any other solution. What I know is that the current road is disproportionate and unfair, and ultimately we are without anything: neither bank nor real estate. They will tell me that the state is not always a good real estate manager. That is true, but call cooperatives, call the new modalities of collaborative housing, call the innovation capacity of the young generation, so qualified and so mistreated in their right to housing. There's so much way to go! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring this case for the misunderstanding and fair revolt that he is generating. Incomprehension and revolt that are so much greater how unequal is the treatment given to the ordinary citizen who asks for a loan for home purchase. Also in this area, in many banks and not only the New Bank, they overvalued the assets on which they constituted mortgages and somewhat overvalued the ability of families to comply with the low average incomes that are ours. When the crisis occurred and many families stopped paying, much of the bank was inexorable: people lost their homes, lost their money and often still lost their debts, because the real value of the asset is much lower than the value of the loan. The process is unfair and disproportionate, again, and has very serious social consequences. That is why they are making their way through this Europe as measures such as the extension of mortgage debt with delivery of the good when the family address is concerned, such measures that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block propose in their draft laws of basic housing and which, I believe, should not be ruled out. It is an appeal to the Socialist Party. I really suggest you go further. The immeasurability of the house of residence, which is already legally recognised in Portugal today, in the case of tax or tax debt, should be extended the mortgage debt incurred for the acquisition of own housing if there is unnecessary and justified economic deficiency. And there must be ways, without new jaws, to restructure mortgage debt in the light of the real conditions of the family or at least the possibility of exchanging the house for another cheaper one. It is the right to housing that is at stake. I also defend greater caution in credit for housing. There have been several appeals, and I make them, too. Interests will be able to rise from one moment to the next. Both families and banks must have the exact notion of the risks involved. The housing crisis is worsening in our country. There is a need for preventive measures, a more proactive approach to public policies, but it is, above all, necessary, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members, that citizens feel that the financial system has to stop being a kind of network of fishermen on the contrary, which holds the small and lets the big. The treatment given to the small family debt cannot be so violent in view of the complacency that we witness successive financial holes that cannot be indefinitely hidden or postponed. There will be no greater confidence in the banking system without this rebalancing between small and large. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also the confidence in democracy that is at stake. We all need to be more demanding with the seriousness and decency of those who make decisions about our lives. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u309	Two honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mrs Helena Roseta how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u310	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u311	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u312	Mr President, Mrs. Helena Roseta, I can only begin by thanking the fact that I have brought the issue of housing, mainly housing financing, a subject which has been under the carpet and which, in fact, has to be on the table. There is an emergency that has not found in the Socialist Party the hostel of the measures decided to deal with the lack of housing accessible to a large part of the population in Portugal. Even earlier, SIC did a report on the difficulty of finding a house to rent or even to buy in the city of Porto. We have recently achieved some amendments to the law of the hiring of Assumption Christians, these changes that have brought more protection to tenants, but in fact is clearly insufficient. Just talk to D. Nazaré here, in the Marquis de Pombal, or with D. Maria Augusta, in Miragaia, to realize that even people over 65 are unprotected. However, and as mentioned here, the financing of housing is growing and the certainty that foreign investment in real estate has deregulated and made the right to housing inaccessible. at the same time, real estate and banks have more and more real estate and massive operations such as fidelity and the New Bank, gain followers in Portugal. Probably the so famous SIGI (investment companies and real estate management) come to help this party. A measure so simple and fair that the Left Block has entered into the basic law as the guarantee that no one is in debt in the delivery of his home, which guarantees a sharing of the risk between people and the bank—which, it is said, is the one who makes the evaluation that guarantees subsequently to raise debts— finds obstacles within the Socialist Party itself, in this legislature. Where, then, do we have the priorities? In the fight against the speculation and artificial inflation of banking and finance and in the measures decided to deal with the thousands of vacant houses and delivered to the bank in recent years? Yes, the question we have raised is that, and I am glad that the honourable Member has also brought it here today: will the Socialist Party be able, in fact, to stop the fight against financial, banking speculation and investment funds? Will they recognize the landing as an activity contrary to the social function of the dwelling? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I can only tell you that we expect, in fact, that the Socialist Party has heard it well this afternoon, because what I said about the minimum we have to achieve in the basic housing law is on the right path and the Left Block can only applaud your intervention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u313	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helena Roseta, I would also like to begin by greeting her on the matter which she brought up in the statement she has just made, which actually addresses substantive issues. I am sure that it was not by chance that you tried to address the problem that you brought here in the way you did it, especially by asking questions that are fundamental, from the point of view of the political options, of social organization, of recognition of the social value that has a certain good, which therefore cannot be referred only to private management based on particular options, but that you have to take into account the social function, the social need to which you respond. And the situation of housing is precisely that. When we discuss housing policies, we are discussing options that society should make as such, in relation to the conditions of use of a good that cannot be subject only to the private or private options of those who hold it, because this good satisfies a social need, it has to fulfil a social function and it has to be determined by the political lines that are defined by those who have the competence to do so. With regard to the references you made to the New Bank, I would say that the honourable Member, perhaps not so clearly, has raised a question which we, the CFP, have stressed over time. The fact that the State has to benefit from the property resulting from BES, the Group of the Holy Spirit, in particular from some heritage which assumes special characteristics, is placed as a necessity not only in relation to the state's recovery plan for the public money that was used in the Resolution of the Bank and in the constitution of the New Bank, but also for another reason, and I would risk-CL - to say that this is the main reason - for destination, for the use that can be given to all that heritage if it is in the hands of the State and therefore available to solve social problems. This is one of the issues raised since the beginning of this whole process, because by privatizing the Bank after its Resolution, this meant that the estate was not available to the State to solve social problems, it remained in the hands of the new owners and, in particular, considering who was left with the New Bank, to the credit of those who intend to get profit quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u315	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u316	I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to the issue of the impermenability of the household, I would like to make it clear that the CFP did not introduce this element in its draft basic housing law because since 2016 it has submitted its own project — which, moreover, is in the Committee on Budgets and Finance for discussion in the specialty — which establishes the regime of impermenability of permanent housing itself precisely in the cases in which Mr Deputy referred. We have proposed this matter in an ordinary law and we understand that the basic law of housing was not the proper space for solving this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u317	Mr. João Oliveira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u318	I conclude, Mr. President. Mrs. Helena Roseta, wanted to leave the following challenge: she convinced the Socialist Party to change its position either with regard to the destination of the New Bank's assets, or with regard to this option of the impermissibility of the home of the family. I know that Mrs. Helena Roseta gave an individual opinion, but now she is converging with the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u319	Mr. João Oliveira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u320	...in this effort to convince the Socialist Party, and I must thank Mr President for his tolerance to the extent of my question. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u321	I hardly understand the comment, Mr. João Oliveira. He had 2 minutes and used 3 minutes and 25 seconds. I can't see anything extraordinary! In reply, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u322	Mr President, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have been raised. There's one thing that has to be very clear, gentlemen. Members: I have used my right to speak for 10 minutes in a legislative session, a right of all Members. Members individually. I used that right. The gentlemen. Members know that I belong to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, but I am not from the Socialist Party, nor do I have any competence or leadership in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. I have the greatest pleasure in sharing the concerns expressed here. I know that there are many of my colleagues who share them, I know that perhaps the positions will not be unanimous within the Parliamentary Group, but the questions that Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has asked me will have to ask the Socialist Party. I can't answer on behalf of a party I don't belong to. I am very pleased to be in this Parliament, at the invitation of Antonio Costa, as independent in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, but acknowledge my limitations. Many times, I am in absolute minority, which is not serious and which I take with some irony because, in fact, I have already been in other conditions in this Parliament and, probably, this intervention will be the last one I do in this House of the Republic. Whatever it is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue the struggle, let's fight for the law of bases. We are still waiting for the right's contributions to the basic law. They have already criticized our solutions very much, but they have not yet presented those of them. Let's try to find as broad a convergence as possible. I am available for these convergences and I hope that my colleagues in the Parliamentary Group will also be there. Let's get to work! I just want to remember the following: when I called attention to the possibility of the state getting ahead to buy these real estate portfolios, it is because I understand that it is not late, Mr. João Oliveira. Those that have already been sold can no longer be purchased, but for those who have not yet been, there can be solutions. That's my call. I'll just give you a number. The New Bank sold almost 9000 buildings. The buildings which the IRHU ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) holds on behalf of the State for social housing are 11 000. Only the wallet of the New Bank of the Viriato Project is almost as much as the entire public housing of the Portuguese State. This is inconceivable! So we have to do something. This is my call: we have to do something! [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-13.u323	With Mrs Helena Roseta's reply, and before we finish the work, I would like to remind you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a plenary meeting tomorrow beginning at 3 p.m. The agenda is exclusively occupied by a CDS-PP marking, in which the Draft Law No 1144 / XIII / 4 will be discussed in general. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities. This is an agenda of this kind, and I am alert to the honourable Members. Members for the fact that there can be a vote at the end of the debate. Thank you very much. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 27 minutes.]]
