ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We will start our work with a debate required by the PSD on European solidarity and civil protection. You have the floor to start the debate, Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2017 was a horrible year for Portugal and for Portuguese. We had two big fires. On June 17, a great forest fire broke out in Pedrogon City Hall, having spread to neighboring municipalities. And we almost thought this was a timely situation when we were surprised by the tragedy of October 15, 2017. The official balance sheet accounted for 111 dead and 324 wounded. More than 1300 houses have been accounted for partially or totally destroyed by fire and more than 500 companies have been destroyed. It was a tragic year. Already this morning, we heard that SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal) threatens to turn off satellites if the government does not pay the debt to the company. That is how this government finds itself to solve such serious issues, investments that had been crucial at the time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of these tragic scenarios, we can conclude that the State has failed. The State has not been able to prevent, much less to guarantee, the safety of Portuguese. Today, we also know that the government has failed. There is no doubt! In the fight, the lack of articulation between the actors and the lack of means was decisive for the tragedies we live in. In the context of the tragedy of Pedrogão, Mr. Prime Minister left the Portuguese. He escaped the responsibility he should have assumed, respecting the Portuguese who suffered so much. The government has no excuses! It was in this context that a number of European PSD Members activated the Solidarity Fund to help Portugal. Euro MP José Manuel Fernandes of the PSD, was the rapporteur in the European Parliament of the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund for the populations affected by fires in Portugal. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u3	With the Solidarity Fund, it was possible to ensure that Portugal receives more than EUR 50 million, which includes nearly EUR 1. 5 million, advanced by Brussels, to help the populations and areas affected by forest fires. Most of the resources of this Fund should be allocated to the authorities, for the replacement of municipal infrastructures, rural and agricultural roads, and to the local civil protection system. That's not what's happening! It is not fair that more than half of the amount of the Solidarity Fund has been applied to expenditure that should have been incurred by the State. This attitude of the Government is shameful, selfish and disrespectful by the people and the Portuguese. What the government has done is immoral! And then what about the rest of the Fund, which should be in the hands of the authorities, institutions and people? Oh, my God! It's not executed! Apologies and more apologies from the Socialist Government: now the regulations are the procedures. They're always sorry! People are not responsible for the incompetence of the government. It is noted that the deadline for payment of the Fund is 18 months and ends on 6 January 2020, when all projects have to be fully paid. Ask yourself, when will people actually benefit from this support? Incompetence is huge, by this socialist government. It's too bad to be true, but it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u4	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u5	Every Portuguese must know about this, to realize what the socialist government is doing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unacceptable that, in the face of the trauma of fires, the government is not an open book! As if that were not enough, see the chaos, the lack of transparency, the incompetence and widespread suspicion affecting recovery, reconstruction and even compensation of certain types of damage. These are, in fact, the journalistic investigations carried out by the Public, one behind the other, and by other newspapers, which raise the veil of abuses: lack of transparency, deviations, sympathy and complaining things. Anyway! And what does the government do? It does not even respond to what the court recommends. What does the government do? Pretend nothing's going on! How is it possible that this traumatic burden that we are living in can be borne by the government? What security, what confidence can the Portuguese, the citizens have in relation to such a government? Oh, my God! Socialists prove, once again, that they are good in propaganda, in the art of illusion, theatre, farce, but they are very bad at building progress. The PSD did housework in the European Parliament. PSD Members in the European Parliament presented an initiative to help resolve the problem. And what does the Socialist Party do? Nothing! It only lives with the confusion of the work being done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u6	Mr. Deputies, two Mrs have signed up. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u7	I shall reply together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u8	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa Silva, this debate, based on the title given to us, ends up being a bit strange, has several very different themes and can sin because there is a sort of "Mixórdia de Tematicas" here, as was seen in his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u10	It's the tone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u11	And when we talk about European solidarity, there are a number of issues on which we have to talk and which the PSD has some clarifications to give. Indeed, when we talk about European solidarity, we also talk about Community funds, because that dimension should be part of them. As has been seen with the recent change of priorities of the European Union itself, solidarity is certainly not part of this Union's thinking for the investments of the next multiannual financial framework. Despite this, the Socialist Party and the PSD agreed on this issue in April 2018, as all of us are well remembered. They agreed, the two parties, principles for negotiating the next multiannual financial framework, and they all knew what was on the table: cuts to cohesion, priority to militarization and not solidarity. And now this kind of priorities have a lot of influence on what you have been talking about here. The question is: Are the PSD and Rui Rio now ashamed of the agreement they made in April 2018, and hence bring this debate to plenary? Are you now trying to make a mistake with regard to European priorities? Or do you want to try to do this European campaign here, when it is clearly not the place to do it? We recall that also in February 2019, the PSD came to vote on a draft resolution so that the Government would comply with what had been agreed between the two parties on Community funds. It does not seem logical, because the principles that PSD and PS defend, at European level in general, are very similar and have been side by side with European policy and its priorities. We know that for the PSD, as for the PS and the CDS, European dictates are absolutely untouchable, and they are always untouchable, so at the moment they bring up the debate a European issue, namely European solidarity, which is very concerned about this, when, in fact, they have never distanced themselves from European choices, it allows us to conclude that it is only an attempt to get out of this debate by trying to go unnoticed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD, what do they really want when they speak in European solidarity? They intend to block the path of militarization, to the detriment of cohesion funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u13	...and true bets on the solidarity mechanism? Is that what we're discussing here or not? On the increase in expenditure for military purposes, I remember that the PSD, at the time of the agreement in 2018, advocated that in order to meet these costs, resources from the European Central Bank should be mobilised. On mechanisms of solidarity, nothing has said and, indeed, nothing continues to say where it is that, after all, the words for this solidarity will be sought. He has expressed a number of concerns here, but the PSD continues not to say where he's going to get the money for solidarity. We conclude that he does not really want to know about this European pillar, as he never wanted to know. When there is a major attack in recent years on the pillar of European solidarity, PSD remains with European decision-makers on this issue. So we ask: what is the real objective of this debate in terms of European solidarity, since no one understands it, considering the choices made by the PSD? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u14	After all, Mr António Costa Silva, four Mrs have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u15	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u16	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Costa Silva recalled, and well, the tragic events of 2017, recalled how the State failed — and completely failed — in helping defenseless populations, he recalled what has been the repeated and constant incompetence of this government in this matter, he recalled, and well, the lack of compensation, the lack of assistance to the populations, the lack of reconstruction of the houses that have burned and also alerted, and well, for an answer that must be not only national but global, in particular at the level of the European Union. We agree with this view, given the serious consequences and even immediate consequences that climate change will have. It is a global challenge, a European challenge and that only a global and European response, particularly through the European solidarity mechanism, can and must combat it and, now, what is very important, prevent it. Now, Mr President, this has been said, and we agree with this view, I believe that you will also agree with me that this European solidarity presupposes national competence. We can only be in a position at European level to demand this solidarity, to demand that strengthening if we do our work internally. And what have we seen? To a total disorientation of the Government in this area. What did we find out today? We learned that there is a state debt to SIRESP, S.A. a year ago, which resulted from investments imposed by the Government, by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, which could lead to possible insolvency of the company, and that the Court of Auditors has already doubled the attempt at public capital injection, in addition, so that the Government can fulfil its most left-wing commitments of such nationalisation of the SIRESP, which has not yet emerged from the role and words of Minister Eduardo Cabrite. The fact is that the government has been alerted two months ago to the danger of disconnecting satellite connections and, with that, to cut off communications between security and emergency forces and services. And what did the government do? Nothing! One more total government blackout in civil protection. That, Mr President, is serious, it is irresponsible, and we hope that it will not be the Portuguese, once again, to pay dearly. The question I had to ask you has to do with the following: the CDS, a month ago — to be more concrete, one month and two days ago — also, by force of this news concerning the failure of SIRESP and the failure of the Government in relation to SIRESP, called, with an urgent nature, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, for clarification to 1. the Commission. This request, which was approved by the PSD, which was approved by the PS, which was approved unanimously, was supposed to be urgent. The truth is that one month and two days have passed, Mr Minister has not yet come to the Commission. In fact, what seems urgent for this government is the elections and for this it is worth everything: it is worth lying, it is farce, it is worth confusing people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u18	It was also for the CDS a few weeks ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u19	So what about the motion of censure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u20	It is only not urgent to pay the SIRESP, it is only not urgent to appoint administrators, which, moreover, announced, it is only not urgent to have an effective civil protection system. This is not urgent and that is what I would like to hear from you. We understand priorities: Dr. António Costa prefers the political farce, prefers party interests,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u21	And the government must have fallen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u22	... forgetting what is essential, which is the protection of populations, civil protection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u23	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u24	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Nuno Magalhães for their questions. With regard to the issue raised by the honourable Member, I do not understand where is the « Mixory of Themes », we are talking about the Solidarity Fund and its application. Better: Mrs. Deputy is that you are very much at stake. You know why? Because we would like to see the Left Block criticising the government — and that would be most natural — about the misimplementation, misapplication, the shameful application of the European Union Solidarity Fund ( EUSF ). That would be the role of an opposition party. But you're not! You are a party to government. Now, until they are moderate, even they are called Europeanists — see there! The Left Block, a radical party, from the radical left, has become—see there! — a European party! That's nice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u26	Madam Member, you and your party should be concerned about the implementation, application, possibility of the support given by the Fund to people, which is not happening. Mr. Nuno Magalhães, you are right in full! In fact, we are facing a problem here, which is the fact that the European Commission is making funds available and Portugal, which can receive these funds, does not use them properly. Somehow, when the State uses part of this money, it may even be doing so legally, but it is immoral. Money does not reach people, does not reach institutions, does not reach authorities for what it has been destined for and according to the regulation, is totally immoral. On SIRESP, the reality is this: what Mr. Minister of Internal Administration prefers is propaganda, which is what the socialist government does well. For example, even yesterday, you were in Parliament announcing the electronic vote when you could be answering these questions, and you didn't. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u27	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u28	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, the PSD today brings the debate to European solidarity. First of all, it must be clarified that it concerns the solidarity of the European Union! Yes, because the European Union and Europe are not the same! Europe and the European Union are certainly not the same. But let us talk about the solidarity of the European Union, in the case of agriculture and forests, the size for which you have not even mentioned much. It was the solidarity of the European Union: it led to the abandonment of family agriculture; it distributed 80 % of all support to only 7% of farmers; it ended with milk quotas; it closed more than 400 000 agricultural holdings; it liquidated more than 550 000 jobs; it deteriorated the state structures; it created infindable monoculture stains; and it promoted forest disorder. It has done all this the solidarity of the European Union! Finally, as a result of the great solidarity of the European Union, we have a country through tragic fires! ...Yes, it is important to reflect on the fires and causes that are at its origin. Fires are an indissociable reality of the impact of European Union policies, which promote the failure of thousands of farms in Portugal and the abandonment of the rural world. Fires are also inseparable from the absence of forest planning policies and the territory. Mr President, I ask you now whether this is the solidarity of the European Union, whether you accept and agree with the destructive solidarity of national and country agriculture, which I greatly appreciate and which stands for. The truth is that, in the face of the serious demands of the European Union and the consequences of the solidarity of the European Union, the PSD approves taxes there in the European Union and we, the Portuguese, pay them here! This is not the way! It's another way we need to go. That is why it is necessary to break the path we have gone! What is needed is to move forward with another policy, which promotes national production and guarantees the food sovereignty of the country, another policy in defense of family agriculture. Another common agricultural policy must be called for, with support for production. A policy that meets the demands of the European Union and its treaties and the interests of the great capital, a policy that defends the people and the country and ensures that it is moving forward and not moving backwards! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u29	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u30	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, if we wanted to make a summary of your intervention, we would say that she was proxious in adjectives against the government — nothing more! He didn't bring us anything more rigorously! He said that the European Union's Solidarity Fund was not being implemented well. But it's good to remember what this fund is for. This Fund serves to: the restoration of infrastructure; the temporary accommodation; the creation of infrastructure security conditions; and the cleaning of areas affected. And the government, after the damage caused by the serious fires that took place in June and October 2017, immediately put the European Union in a position to act on the European Union Solidarity Fund — that is what it did. Therefore, the PSD cannot now want to draw dividends from something that it has not organised and from a request that it has not made to drive the European Union Solidarity Fund. This is the truth. But this support is not exhausted from the European Union Solidarity Fund, which only brought EUR 50, EUR 7 million, against the EUR 600 million that the government has already invested in compensation to victims,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u32	... in the rehabilitation of housing, structures and equipment and also on the roads. And when the European Commission approved the European Union Solidarity Fund on 20 June 2018, and it is necessary to retain this date, the Government immediately published the national regulations for the allocation of the Solidarity Fund's funds. Did - it on August 31, 2018... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u33	... and defined support for municipalities of EUR 24, EUR 1 million and support for civil protection and forests of EUR 26, EUR 5 million. This means that all the mechanisms were immediately activated and on the same day the competitions opened. The funds of the Solidarity Fund are being made available. Mr President, there is a lack of transparency in the application of these funds. It is worth noting that the REVITA ( Population Support Fund and the Revitalization of the Areas Affected by Fires in June 2017 ) has regulations and that not only manages public funds, it also manages private donations that have been made available to the State. Therefore, the first question I ask you, honourable Member, is whether any permanent housing is to be rehabilitated either with the REVITA Fund, which includes public and private donations, or with private donations. In short, I ask you whether any permanent housing remains to be rehabilitated, whether any compensation is to be granted, whether any person no longer has support for social security, health care, or any other. These are the questions that we should ask, because you are making accusations of lack of transparency, but you are not setting a single example.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u34	There are several! Many!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u35	And it is good to remember that the situations mentioned are reconstructions of private entities. Those who emerged in the social communication were immediately supported by the REVITA Fund, which has an obligation to do so. Therefore, this situation is being well managed, transparently. There are reports that are published regularly...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u37	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, the question I put to you, Mr President, is whether there is any permanent housing that has not been recovered, whether there is any victim of the fire tragedy that has not been supported, and whether this information can be brought here for the sake of democracy, for the benefit of the public interest, for the sake of transparency. It is that this attitude of "passing mud" on what is being done only degrades credibility in public institutions—in fact, until we saw in the social communication people complain that they had not been compensated when their home had not even burned down.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u38	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u39	Therefore, we must restore the truth, and that is what I ask you, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u40	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u41	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies João Dias and Odete João. Mr John Dias, I would like to tell you something very simple: you have been here all the time to « kick to the corner », in fact, talking about the « solidarity fund » of the Communist Party to the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u42	It is about what is the concrete theme of the European Union Solidarity Fund and civil protection that you said zero, that you did not talk about it. So I have nothing to answer. Mrs. Odete João, I have to tell you the following: the lady, in fact, was chosen in the sense of sacrifice, was chosen by the Socialist Party to excuse the disaster, to excuse what former Minister Pedro Marques did to the country, what chaos generated everywhere... [[Protests by PS Member Odete João.]] But don't worry, Mrs. Member, it was in the most biblical sense of the term, because many are the elected and few are the chosen ones. [[PSD laughter.]] Don't worry, it was certainly a good choice. But the honourable Member, when she spoke about transparency, forgot something that the PSD was very careful not to bring here, which was the cover of yesterday's morning mail, we could be here to show it, but it makes no sense, it does not give dignity to this debate, where the 'houses of shame' are. That was transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u43	Tell the truth about public funds!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u44	And the honourable Member has been running away all the time on the subject, which was on the implementation of the European Union Solidarity Fund. And he did not speak because he was made for people, for institutions, for authorities, and not to pay for state expenses — do not confuse things! — this is the responsibility of the State. That's right. [[Protests by PS Member Odete João.]] Finally, you have to justify why the remaining EUR 25 million are not executed — zero! — when they have to be executed until January of next year. It's as simple as that! That is the justification that you have to give to Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u45	Mr Margarida Marques, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings to the plenary the theme of « European solidarity and civil protection ». European solidarity is a fundamental value enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union, but it is also a practice, a form of the Member States interacting with each other. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a clear deficit in European solidarity. First of all, a lack of solidarity that occurred soon after the 2008 financial crisis, a deficit that we see still latent in the position that some Member States are defending in relation to the construction and completion of economic and monetary union. Secondly, there is also a lack of solidarity in migration and asylum policies. During the peak of the refugee crisis, when some countries in the front of the illegal and inhuman routes of the Mediterranean, such as Greece and Italy, carried the burden of welcoming thousands of people, other Member States simply refused to share the responsibility and international obligation to host refugees. This was not the case with Portugal. It is therefore urgent that solidarity be effectively at the heart of European policies. Helena F. = One of the areas where European solidarity is most needed is in response to and support for natural disasters that are increasingly affecting Europe. The impacts of climate change are serious and real. According to the World Economic Forum, of the five main global risks with greater impact since 2017, four are related to the environment and climate. We must be prepared to face these risks, but to do so we need to have the necessary resources. In fact, natural disasters are considered to be one of the main risks to international security. Unfortunately, the PSD today brings this essential issue of European policy to instrumentalise it as a political strike, in the context of an election campaign for the European elections. They use a very serious issue and should convene a national consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD, by the voice of your list head, with the support of Mr. Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group have created in this field two myths about European solidarity and civil protection. First of all, the idea that the "European Civil Protection Force" proposal, which is part of its electoral manifesto, does not exist and is a novelty. Secondly, the idea that it was for the work of your Euro MPs that the European Solidarity Fund was set up. That is why we are having this debate here today. As for the first myth, it is false that the proposal of a European civil protection force is a new idea. It's not! The Civil Protection Mechanism was proposed in 2006, in a report by Michel Barnier, who had already provided for the creation of a European force of this kind. What was missing was indeed to move forward with the creation of this European civil protection force. This was exactly what was done three months ago when the European Parliament approved RescEU in February. With this new step in the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, there will be a reserve of assets at European level to help the most needy Member States, complementing national capacities including: forest fire fighting aircraft, special water pumps, search and rescue teams in urban areas, campaign hospitals and emergency medical teams. These means will complement national resources and be managed at European Union level. This new generation of the Civil Protection Mechanism, which the PSD claims to be an innovative proposal for the next five years, but which has already been adopted in the Council of Ministers and in the European Parliament, has responded precisely to the need to renew the Civil Protection Mechanism of the European Union, which already existed and of which Portugal has benefited, but which has proved insufficient in response to simultaneous disasters. In addition, the new rules simplify administrative procedures so as to reduce the time required to mobilize immediate assistance. With regard to the second myth, Rangel says and also tells Mr Costa Silva that it was the work of the PSD Members who due to the activation of the European Union Solidarity Fund for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u47	On the initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u48	Mr President, we all know that the request for aid comes from the Government and only from the Government. That's the procedure! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The European Union Solidarity Fund is now providing financial assistance to countries that have suffered natural disasters. To access the European Union Solidarity Fund, the Member State shall apply. In the above case, it is good to remember that this candidacy was the responsibility of then Minister Pedro Marques. The European Commission assesses and, if it approves, makes a proposal for the amount to be allocated, a value that is voted on by the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. José Manuel Fernandes, as rapporteur, is merely proposing the validation of the European Commission proposal as a non-binding resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what the Euro MP of the PPE ( European People's Party ) did. in this case, Pedro Marques managed to mobilise an amount of EUR 50, EUR 6 million for Portugal, in three axes :...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u49	We'll be right back!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u50	... 15 million for civil protection, 10 million for the replacement of rural roads and 25 million for the replacement of equipment for the authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u51	And where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u52	The final text was adopted in plenary by the vast majority of European Members and with the support of all Portuguese Euro MPs. In addition, it should be remembered that the references and criticisms made by Mr Rangel in the European Parliament to the Portuguese Government have undermined this approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u53	That's an ardrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u54	PSD claims merit in the case of civil protection, but the proposal was advanced by Commissioner Stylianides...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u55	We'll be back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u56	... and the Socialist Euro MPs supported the main measures under discussion, including the establishment of a permanent force, the RescEU. The PSD wants to make use of an instrument that already exists and for which other parties have also contributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u57	Taking advantage is a candidate being up there in the rostrum! That's exploitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u58	You guys did exactly the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u59	But it is no longer the first time that it seeks to bring about new measures that already exist. It is the case of the DiscoverEU or the European Solidarity Body — Paul Rangel also speaks of the latter as if it were a drastic innovation. Before finishing, I would like to recall the importance of the integration of these objectives into the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... point contained in the proposal from the European Commission, whose rapporteur — yes! — it has been, and we hope that it will continue to be, Mr Zorrinho, and where the consensus of all the Portuguese Euro MPs is expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u60	Will it be elected by the citizens? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u61	To play with the ignorance of citizens and objectively deceive voters is not the fairest way to debate these issues or the future of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u62	The Bureau shall record two entries for requests for clarification. Mrs Margarida Marques, how would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u63	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u64	All right. You have the floor, then, to request clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Margarida Marques, it is not surprising that the Member, who is a candidate for the European Parliament, has accused the Democratic Social Party of wanting to use this issue as a political weapon. What the honourable Member did in that pulpit, in the rostrum, before this House and before the country was, no less, an election campaign speech from whom she is a candidate for the European Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] I do not fail to note the numerous times he has made accusations — and direct accusations! — candidates from PSD Paulo Rangel and José Manuel Fernandes. [[Protests by PS Members Joana Lima and Odete João.]] But let's go to the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u66	That's it! Let's go to the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u67	Mrs. Margarida Marques, when we talk about civil protection, we talk about fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u68	But not only!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u69	And, inevitably, we remember the fires that devastated the country in 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u70	In your area, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u71	...of the death of more than one hundred of our citizens, of the use made by the government of 15 million euros of donations from private and business to deal with that calamity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u72	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u73	We are reminded, Mrs Margarida Marques, of the dark process that has been the reconstruction of the houses in Pedrogão Grande, which is already known as the process of « the houses of shame».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u74	Report! Maybe don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u75	The honourable Member did not mention these matters, but I have the right to question them. I will not ask you directly about fires, but it will allow me that the issue about fire prevention issues. As Mrs Margarida Marques knows, the government has announced, with a pump and circumstances, the creation of two lines of credit for cleaning forests. One of these lines, EUR 50 million, was for the municipal chambers of the country; a second line of credit, totalling EUR 40 million, was for the companies and private owners. Well, ma'am, what is the result of these two lines of credit? What is the success of these two credit lines?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u76	Mr. Deputies, you have to finish, you have two minutes to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u77	I'm going to speed up, Mr. President. in a universe of 278 municipalities, only 18 submitted applications and, of these 18, only 11 applications were considered eligible, but the money, Mrs. Deputée, only arrived in two houses. As for the other line of credit, as far as we know, there was no application. Madam Member, are you able to give a plausible explanation to the country for this monumental failure? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u78	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members, the objectives of the European Union's Civil Protection Mechanism, i.e. strengthening cooperation between the Union and the Member States and coordination in the field of civil protection, seek to improve the Union's response to natural and human disasters, strengthening the collective capacity to respond to these problems and to assist Member States. They are, without a surprise, objectives that bring consensus and which, as such, have been adopted by a large majority in the European Parliament. This concern which the PSD has shown — and also the PS now, with the intervention of Mrs Margarida Marques — with the capacity to respond to natural disasters and Community funds, when they are so little concerned about the fight against causes, the causes of these disasters. This, yes, Mr António Costa Silva, that is 'to kick'! It is that the fight against natural disasters, such as fires or floods, is not done without a comprehensive and effective response to the causes of climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u80	But I agree with that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u81	We know how natural disasters are increasingly frequent, more complex and more fierce. It's not by chance! Today, no one is doubting — or almost no doubt, if we count on President Trump — that the climate emergency is one of the biggest crises humanity has ever faced. Young people from all over the world have already come to realize this and have made themselves heard. The climate strikes that have occurred in recent times, a little around the world, show precisely this and alert to something that, although so simple, the PSD and PS have not yet been able to understand, judging by their positions in the European Parliament. I am referring to the need to change the model of operation and organization of societies on a global scale;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u83	... I am referring to the need to ensure coordination, regulation and monitoring of policies to combat climate change, and it is for all;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u84	We did not do the intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u85	This one's for everyone, don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u86	... I am referring to the need to ensure compliance with the rules on greenhouse gas emissions provided for in the Paris Agreement; I am referring to the emerging need to change those which are the European policies for financing fossil energy. The European institutions continue to finance fossil energy investment projects, including the 90 gas, port and transport infrastructure projects, which were still recently considered projects of Community interest and which the PSD and PS supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u88	The Left Block maintains that all funding for fossil fuels — oil, gas and coal — from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development — is cancelled. What about the PSD? Is that a PS? How do you stand in this regard?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u89	Please!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u90	We are here to defend mechanisms for cooperation and support for States to deal with natural disasters, but at the same time to support policies that put profit and exploitation in the face of environmental sustainability and, precisely, in the face of the prevention of these same disasters, or to support policies that seek public investment in environmental and quality collective transport systems or in the development of rail networks, only shows that it does not really matter to the PSD or the PS to combat the causes of these disasters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u91	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u92	I will now finish, Mr President. The recent changes in the European Union's Civil Protection Mechanism, which strengthens the allocation, really show that there was consensus. But what is not consensual in this case is the fact that the armaments industry, the choices by the militaristic option and the choice of armaments diverted precisely the funds from what was necessary for European solidarity. The armaments industry means a fairly clear option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u93	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u94	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. It means the choice to favour, as a European pillar, the arms industry; it means not to choose solidarity and respect among peoples; it means to favour German, French or other companies in the sale of weapons and ammunition; it means regions devastated by war and conflict; it means the increase in the gap of inequalities; it means the increase in the ranks of refugees. The question I want to ask the Socialist Party is whether the PS chooses to follow this militaristic campaign and leave Portugal — and now so many other countries — behind, with regard to solidarity funding funds, or whether the PS will clearly say that it is against this path and that in Europe it will vote against the European budget. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u95	Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I wanted to apologize to you, because I had just sat here to preside over the work, had not changed the chip yet, and I forgot that, not being a normal legislative initiative but a positive marking, the time available for double questions, being 4 minutes and not 2 minutes. That is why I am sorry that I gave you this warning and that I would probably have withdrawn the possibility of making the intervention I had planned. Mrs. Sandra Cunha, 4 minutes is 4 minutes, not 5 minutes and 30 seconds. In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u96	Mr President, quickly I would like to say this: firstly, I would like to recall the Regulation of the European Solidarity Fund. This fund aims to cover a part of its public expenditure to help the State. I think we need to remember this, so we can't take illusions where we can't take them. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] The European Solidarity Fund for Portugal has 15 million for civil protection, 10 million for rural roads — one and the other — and 25 million for restoring equipment from the authorities. Of these 25 million, the competition has been opened and they are contracted. Mrs Cunha, Mrs Sandra Cunha, wanted to say that the issue of climate is indeed of interest to the Socialist Party, being one of the central themes, for example, in the programme and manifesto for the European elections. It was with satisfaction that the Socialist Party saw that the issue of climate is a cross-cutting element in the management of the multi-annual financial framework for 2021 - 2027. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u97	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the PSD has scheduled a debate that speaks of solidarity, more precisely, of the solidarity of the European Union. With regard to this debate, it is important to remember that in 2016, at a time when in our country, with decisive action and intervention from the CFP, a path of defence and replacement of rights and income was taken, at the expense of the will of the European Union, the PSD provided cover to the threat of sanctions to Portugal. After PSD and CDS had been removed from government in 2015, after persistent PCP intervention, if they had taken measures that would have restored income and rights that had been cut by PSD and CDS in government, aligned with the foreign troika, the European Union, disturbed by this path, announced the imposition of sanctions on Portugal, in a process of pressure and blackmail on our country and in an unacceptable behaviour of conditioning of our sovereignty. Furthermore, at that time in 2016, there were those who urged the European Commission to use maximum force in the application of sanctions to Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u100	...person, indeed, supported by PSD and CDS. It is also important to say that the risk and threat of sanctions to Portugal exist only because there is a legislative framework for them to take place, which was, in fact, approved and voted favourably by the PSD, the CDS and also the PS. The PSD, which dealt with this debate, thus defends solidarity, with the possibility of sanctions and punishments which severely harmed the Portuguese people, which, indeed, is not surprising, because the action of the PSD when it is in government — and when it has been up to very recently with the CDS — demonstrates well what the PSD understands for solidarity. They cut wages, cut pensions, cut social benefits, wanted, in fact, together with the CDS, to make permanent the cuts that they announced as temporary, in a blind obedience to the dictates of the European Union and to impose, in Portugal, a reality of minimum social protection and assistanceist. This is the solidarity of the PSD! But there is, indeed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, someone you are supportive of. You are in solidarity with the great capital, with the bank, with the large economic and financial groups to whom are given the millions that are drawn to the Portuguese workers and people, the millions that are drawn to civil protection, which are drawn to the public services and social functions of the State. The commitment made by the CFP is with the workers and the Portuguese people, with the defence of their rights and interests. The proposals we have and we have tabled allow us to advance these rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u101	Mrs Diana Ferreira has a request for clarification of the PSD. Mr António Lima Costa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this debate, we also want to see that the tragedies of 2017, which, by surprise of the state, killed more than 100 people, do not fall into the background. Towards half a million hectares of devastated forest and hundreds of our countrymen in great suffering, the European Union knew how to be supportive. It was EUR 50 million to replenish fire-fighting infrastructure and equipment, roads, rural and agricultural roads, water supply networks, municipal equipment, forest cleaning and water lines, to be distributed fairly to the affected regions. of EUR 50 million, the government diverted about half to finance central government bodies based in Lisbon and, in the other half, red tape charges and time limits incompatible with municipal chambers in order to be able to take advantage of the part which they are not able to implement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u103	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u104	Without shame, the government takes advantage of the misfortune of others to finance public services that are at risk, as a result of the de-investment of the past four years. In view of this opportunistic attitude of the Government so obvious, Mrs Diana Ferreira makes a fundamental intervention to attack the PSD, a party which is only responsible for one thing in this regard: she is responsible, through the committed and decisive work of her Euro MPs, for the allocation of EUR 50 million to Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Mrs. Deputy, don't run away from this. She's on the table and it's obvious to everyone. The question is — and it responds without politicism, clearly, to the populations of the affected areas — whether or not the Portuguese Communist Party agrees that the funds allocated to Portugal through the European Union Solidarity Fund can be diverted to other purposes than that for which it was destined, that is, to the populations that were affected by the disasters of two years ago. Give a clear answer to that! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u105	Yes, to answer that, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we understand the PSD's intervention in this area. Yes, they intend to de-responsibility of deep responsibilities they have had over the years in which they have been government because of the situation that has come to our forest! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is important to remember that, when the PSD was in the government with the CDS, it also created a law allowing the liberalisation of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u107	Answer the question
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u108	The PSD did not intervene in the necessary planning of the territory, but the CFP did not lack proposals in this House. With regard to the forest, I presented proposals on substantive issues that effectively allow disaster prevention and also presented concrete proposals so that it could respond to the affected populations. It is not because of lack of proposal, it is not because of the lack of intervention of the CFP that the problems we have had and the problems we have have have have have no solution. We can no longer say the same about PSD and CDS because they created and aggravated a set of problems we have. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u109	Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate takes place three years after the tragic fires of 2017 and about nine months after the devastating fires in Monchique. The year 2017 will be recorded in our history as the worst ever in loss of human lives — more than 115 — and also the worst in a burned area — more than 500 000 ha, as it will forever remain in our memory one of the most serious and flagrant failures of a state in fulfilling its most basic and primitive functions: the protection of people and the defense of their territory. We do not forget the inoperative action and the insensitive and foolish statements of government members who would send the Portuguese to their lot. We do not forget the disappointment of a government and an inability never before seen to face a crisis situation. There's no way to get away with it. What has happened in Portugal in recent years is a tragic example of the need and importance of strengthening the European Union's Civil Protection Mechanism in a speedy and effective aid that prevents the repetition of a tragedy with the dramatic consequences that we all remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u112	There was this mechanism to operate, and perhaps the failures that happened could have been overcome. The incuria of the Socialist Party's government could have been corrected in the fight against fires, thereby saving villages, villages, companies, forests, but above all human lives. In Portugal we do not forget, we do not even forget, the impact that this has had on many families and on a lot of our economy. A government that has failed, I repeat, has failed in the fight and is now failing in repairing these Portuguese. Today, we are confronted with news that the government has not been able to respond to the victims of Monchique's fires. Yesterday, we were told that Portugal wasted about three quarters of the Community funds that it had in relation to civil protection for the reception of refugees. We therefore have a government that cannot react to a crisis and for which to rule, by the way, it is to create crises, even if they are artificial. We have a Prime Minister who did not resign when 116 Portuguese died, who does not resign when the State is not able to repair the damage to so many victims throughout the country—either in Monchique, whether in Pedrogão Grande, whether in Hospital Oliveira, or in so many other lands in the country—but which is very fast to create an artificial crisis, it is very fast to try to resign because of a crisis itself created. It's very little, very little! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the problem of climate change will have a huge impact on civil protection. All studies indicate this, starting with the latest United Nations study on 2030, which states that Portugal, together with Spain, will be one of the most affected countries in the European Union. The expected decrease in rain in spring and summer, alongside an increase of about 20 % of precipitation during winter time, the extension of heat waves, associated with fire risks, the rise of the average seawater level, the risk of erosion of the Portuguese coast, all these reasons have to lead us to faster intervention and aid in situations of vulnerability. We know that, alone with the Budget of the Portuguese State, it is very difficult to react to this same dimension. That is why the CDS has come to say that, in this area, as in others, it is appropriate for the Government to be faster to negotiate the multiannual financial framework...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u114	...and, above all, have much more ambition. The position with which this Government is negotiating, in the next multiannual financial framework, the Brussels budget for Portugal, in this sense, does not satisfy us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u116	It is important to remember that those who have already failed in the past, such as Minister Pedro Marques, who was in charge of negotiating with the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) and operators, in relation to the failures that existed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u117	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u118	...is, again, clearly, failing. Civil protection is one of the areas in which the Union must intervene, and should intervene quickly, helping in prevention, but also in the fight. We remember that Article 6. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union confers a specific competence on the Union ‘to develop actions aimed at supporting, coordinating or supplementing the action of the Member States’ in the field of civil protection. The CDS has intransigently fought in the European Parliament for the strengthening of the European civil protection mechanism, for its allocation of additional resources that are complementary to national resources and which, in this sense, can be used to help countries affected by these phenomena, be it floods, be it forest fires, be it earthquakes or be epidemics. It is, as we understand it, to strengthen the European reaction capacity and to support, in a solidarity way, the Member States which are facing disasters and whose national capacities are insufficient. in this sense, European solidarity is always very welcome. However, we need to go further. One of the improvements this Mechanism introduced was the creation of a new European Civil Protection Reserve. We defend that the means and operational firefighting equipment can be placed in the countries and regions most affected. Thus, these means could and should have been placed on the Iberian Peninsula and, preferably, in Portugal, which is one of the countries most suffering from these same phenomena. Other countries in central or northern Europe do not suffer as much as we do, although, of course, they have a number of other civil protection phenomena. We know, and do not hide, that such phenomena as fires, earthquakes or floods are and will always be inevitable. The difference lies in the way we can predict them, the way we can avoid them and, when they happen, the way we can deal with them, fight and repair. And that is where the Government of Portugal is failing! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u119	Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares, the Bureau does not record any requests for clarification. Therefore, Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brought up the debate on European solidarity, especially with regard to the management of the European Solidarity Fund. It should be remembered that after the Pedrogon fires, the Portuguese Government submitted a candidature to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund. It is also true, and it must be remembered - today - that this candidacy was about to be plunged by the European Commission, because the losses of Pedrogan were not enough to activate the Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u122	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u123	The PSD was recommended to the Government, and the Government accepted to extend Portugal's candidacy, including the fires that took place in July and August. Later, when the October fires took place, the government changed the candidature again, and that is how Portugal managed to mobilise EUR 50, EUR 6 million to help the fire-affected municipalities. This is the truth! The PSD even congratulated the government for hearing the opposition. Now, these EUR 50, EUR 6 million for Portugal should have been handed over to the municipalities. I recall that it was Portuguese Members who helped to activate this Fund in the European Parliament, and in fact Mr. José Manuel Fernandes included a rule that the Government tried to forget to redistribute this money to the councils whose losses had been recorded for this Fund. [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]] But the government said no! The government decided that more than half of this money, EUR 26 million, was not for the municipalities, it was for the forests and for civil protection, says Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u124	For the infrastructures!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u125	But it's not true! It was for the public institutions of the State, such as Civil Protection, the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and das Florestas) and even the Portuguese Navy, where the money that was for the municipalities affected goes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u126	It wasn't! It wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u127	This isn't illegal, but it's deeply immoral! [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] Then the government said: « No, there are councils that will receive from the Union Solidarity Fund, others receive from the Municipal Emergency Fund and others also receive from PT 2020. And each one receives from his background, as if it were the same. Do not keep on seeking. ” What the government did not tell people was that the Municipal Emergency Fund paid 60 % and the municipalities, in order to receive government assistance, in order to receive what is their right, must be indebted. In other words, to receive EUR 1 million, you have to ask the bank for EUR 400 000, while those who receive the Solidarity Fund do not have to be indebted and have direct aid. And then there are still those of PT 2020. What the government said was that they didn't accumulate funds. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have with me a decision by the Leiria court which proves that the Government has denied any support to some councils and, to others, has given the Emergency Fund, the Solidarity Fund and the PT 2020. This is a shame to the state and it is a shame to the government! [[PSD applause.]] And there are many mayors and council members who are not being helped who sit on the socialist bench and do not raise their voice against the government because they have taken money from the municipalities to pay for the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u128	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u129	I say more: those councils that have access to the Solidarity Fund cannot use it, because the government launched the programmes in October last year, it is true, but only in April this year did it approve the candidatures. Then it is not transparent, it is not coherent, nor is it even effective and still requires that the cameras use this money until October 31. It's impossible, with applications only now approved! What the government wants, we know: it is, once again, to keep the money that was from the people and the municipalities to pay the state expenditure. This is shameful and unworthy, especially in a government that has promised to help the Portuguese and has so many causes in the tragedies that have happened, as evidenced by the various reports already approved by the independent committees. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say that the way in which the government has acted in this matter is a heavy inheritance of Pedro Marques, who has left a confusion behind him. The money is not clear, it is not transparent, it is poorly executed or not executed, and again we see that the government is playing with the funds that should be for the Portuguese. In this regard, I must say that also Minister Eduardo Cabrita is guilty of the cartel. I speak not only of the lack of transparency and incompetence in the area of SIRESP, but also of the fact that I look at the Independent Observatory, an observatory created by the Assembly of the Republic, and not know what « independent » means. [[Protests from PS deputy Susana Amador.]] It is that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration does not leave public institutions, such as GNR ( Republican National Guard ), to respond to the Observatory without going through it. And this is a person who defends the values of April! Open... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the way in which the government has dealt with this matter is irresponsible and it deals differently with what is equal, but above all — do not forget! — it is a constant violation of a law adopted by the honourable Member. Members of the Assembly of the Republic, which obliges the Government to treat in the same manner a set of councils, and violates this law every day, before your silence and before your convivence! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u130	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The great adversities, extreme atmospheric phenomena and climate change catastrophes, such as major fires, are increasingly present in our daily lives, threatening the safety of the population and the potential for economic and social development of the country and challenging the capacity of States to respond. The challenges ahead require us to think in a way that is integrated in so many areas. We must have a more resilient and more cohesive territory, we must be at the forefront of the energy transition to renewable energy sources and therefore we are fulfilling the promotion of environmental sustainability, linking Portugal to the demanding Paris Agreement, increasing the installed power to renewable energy, including the Industrial Strategy for Ocean Renewable Energy. Urban mobility standards need to be modified, with the improvement of public transport supply and the shared electric mobility decisive bets. This has been our bet, with a policy of incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles and with an ambitious programme for the renewal of public urban transport fleets, to which the new social passes are added, with a very positive impact on sustainable mobility and on the lives of Portuguese families. The Government's programme has prioritized the development of the preventive level of the civil protection system, the creation of risk-resistant communities and the improvement of operational response. Risk prevention is an essential dimension for the promotion of territorial resilience, so important steps have been taken by this government and the PS to strengthen it, notably through the reform of the civil protection model, based on: the strengthening of the existing structure; the increase in the link between prevention and combating rural fires, strengthening the principles of professionalization and specialization; and the training of the system; scientific knowledge to improve planning, anticipation and risk management; and the strengthening of the operational structure, with the increased training of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Command. Do not come the PSD and the right with the statement that this government only announces, which is totally false,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u132	Yeah, it's...!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u133	... because we are investing—and much, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! — in three fronts: in prevention, in surveillance and in supervision; in awareness, in self-protection and in warning to the population; in investment and in strengthening combat. It is pointed out that in 2018 fewer than 44 % of rural fires and less than 68 % of burning area were recorded in relation to the annual average of the period and it was also the year in which more fuel and cleaning management actions took place. No government has ever been so effective in this matter! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Professionalization was strengthened, with 141 new permanent intervention teams in volunteer firefighters, and 711 jobs were created. I point out that only this Government has generated 46 % of all permanent intervention teams. These numbers say everything about the difference between what the PSD and the right talk about and what reality is. The reality is investment and the structure is reinforced! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In 2018, Mrs. Members, investments in individual protective equipment and operational cars for GNR, for the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANCC ) and for firefighters were around EUR 24 million in total.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u134	So why don't you pay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u135	Then pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u136	As for SIRESP, it was strengthened with four new mobile stations, with 451 base stations. There is no debt to SIRESP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u137	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u138	...there are contractual situations that the finances are dealing with. It maintains the PSD and CDS when they refer to these weaknesses that no longer exist in a SIRESP that has been strengthened and strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u140	It was also executed a relevant set of tax and social benefits in the fire department, which rejected justice in the same, the injustice that you provoked and that we, Mr. Members, we reject the exemption from moderate rates for firefighters in the SNS ( National Health Service ), with the exemption from vehicle tax on the purchase of operational vehicles for the transport of patients. In 2019, because we have to talk about the present moment and the planning, we will expect an increase in the prevention and combat device with more than 150 GNR intervention groups, plus 200 forest guards, plus 150 elements of the Special Fire Force and 41 permanent intervention teams, together with a strengthening of air resources. The firefighting device for 2019, Mrs. Members, you will have the greatest number of means always involved in all phases of the commitment, with emphasis on strengthening the effectiveness of vehicles and air resources in the months of May and October: 11,492 elements, 2653 teams, 2500 cars. For surveillance, monitoring and detection only, we will have 930 elements of the GNR, 330 elements of the PSP and 912 elements in the monitoring stations. In the meantime, Mr. Members, the Emergency Protection and Relief Unit of the GNR has already been established, the lifeguard career and published the new model of training in Civil Protection and established the National System for Monitoring and Communication of Risk, Special Alert and Warning to Population. Why has the PSD not advanced in all these areas, in these reforms? Why didn't you do anything in this area? With the right, where's the forest defense? Where were they when these reforms were made? Where were the human and material resources in the GNR, firefighters and ANPC, which are now required in force and that the government has been strengthening? Where and how was the National Surveillance Network? We thought they were somewhere lost and forgotten on the terraces of St. Benedict’s indifference when the right was ruling! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Yesterday, two more relevant diplomas were approved at the Council of Ministers which harmonize the municipal firefighters' regime with that of the firefighters. Structural changes in Civil Protection have been designed, which we hope may change the paradigm when they come into force. The investment in ANPC, already implemented and translated in the acquisition of 20 light and forest combat vehicles, was more than EUR 1.3 million. Within the framework of the European Solidarity Fund, EUR 9, EUR 5 million was approved for this area, following fires, and EUR 9 million was paid. It maintains the PSD when it says that the Solidarity Fund is not being properly implemented. It is being well executed in the forest, in the civil protection and also with regard to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u141	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u142	They lie, they lie and insist, but a lie does not become true by saying it insistently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] For GNR there were also EUR 5, EUR 7 million for firefighting cars. The Socialist Party therefore pursues its efforts to provide the country with a more effective civil protection system, served by qualified and motivated professionals for support to citizens, for modernization of the system and for cooperation between institutions. in this debate, we talked about the European scale, but we cannot ignore the municipal scale, on a path to strengthening competences also in civil protection. We have many challenges ahead. The strengthened European civil protection mechanism, with the support and follow-up of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Prime Minister, was fundamental, because in Europe we have audible voice, where we not only strengthened the European mechanism, but also were decisive in supporting the European Solidarity Fund. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Portugal better and safer depends on everyone. The government and the PS are doing their part. That we can all fulfil our part, in order to be a cohesive, silosless whole, without excessive corporateism, without easy demagogy and political exploitation in human dramas, recognizing that we always have to improve responses, but affirming prevention and combat as two pillars integrated into a wider value chain, in which the best skills and knowledge must be fully exploited for the benefit of the community, for the benefit of Portuguese, for the good of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u143	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, responding directly to the Socialist Party's accusations about what the PSD was doing when I wanted to propose these reforms, I'm going back to Dad: I was dealing with your bankruptcy! We must remember you every day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u145	Now, if you have any doubts, ask your colleagues who are in the government at the moment. But there is one question that I have to ask you: then, the Socialist Party is the target of an accusation, of several accusations, so serious that we have made, on the subject of the management of the Solidarity Fund and do not challenge a single criticism? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u146	They've fucked up the whole hat! [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u147	Madam Member, I ask you: when will the PS stop reading the speeches that Minister Eduardo Cabrita sends ready, why does he not have a clear notion of what is really going on? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u148	It's just that the PS doesn't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u149	Respect yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u150	The respect you ask is for people, it is for the truth, I repeat, for the truth! [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] The independent observatory reports reject all these reforms, criticize all these reforms and the PS continues to talk about them as if they were true. Between the reality of the discourse of the Government and the Socialist Party and what is reality on the ground, there is a great difference, and the consecutive reports of the various entities confirm this. Just look, for example, at what recently emerged from the independent observatory on fire in Monchique, which says that the problem is not to have more means, is the lack of management capacity, operationalization, coordination, capacity and transparency. The example we have of today's SIRESP is another case in which Minister Eduardo Cabrita has deceived Parliament and deceived the Portuguese. And the PS continues to say "amen" to that, without any critical capacity! Do you need to ask the Socialist Party the following: are you concerned about propaganda or are you concerned about people? Are you worried about theater scenes or are you worried about protecting Portuguese? Answer these questions, Your Honor! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u151	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Susana Amador, asking her to pay attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u152	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, first of all, wanted to tell you that this bench has its own thoughts and that it does not read speeches from anyone. Speak for yourself, Mr Commissioner, about your speeches, not about ours! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would like to say again that the Solidarity Fund is good and I would ask the Bureau, through an interpellation, to distribute the Fund's Regulation to the PSD bench, because it seems they do not know it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u153	We know, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u154	... and that they have not heard the previous interventions of the Socialist Party on the content of it. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u155	As I said, applications are taking place both for the forest, for civil protection, and for the Portuguese municipalities. It is more than EUR 50 million from this Fund, but this government has already invested EUR 600 million in fires. They are values that say everything about our determination and commitment. Once again, I would like to say to Mr Duarte Marques that it is not by speaking louder or by causing some kind of use or demagogy that can be more effective in his speech. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u156	The Portuguese are listening to us and understanding who has a sense of state and responsibility and who uses demagogy and populism to assert himself. It's not like that and that's not where we're going! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u157	Before giving the next speaker the floor, I would just like to draw the House's attention to the following: Mr. Jorge Machado will now speak and, with no further inscriptions, he will then speak, end the debate, the PSD Parliamentary Group, and then we will proceed to the vote. Mr. Jorge Machado, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In today's debate, the PSD focused its intervention on the Solidarity Fund and its implementation. As our people say, “preventing is the best remedy”. In addition to the structural measures to prevent and combat fires and civil protection, which my comrade João Dias has already mentioned, it is important to point out that there is much to be done to improve our civil protection mechanisms. First of all, I would like to note one fact: we have talked about European Union mechanisms of solidarity, but there is the European civil protection mechanism that is not out of the question. We are in favour of developing mechanisms for cooperation between States in response to disasters, especially large disasters, and we believe that there is much to be done in this area. However, it was clear, in particular during the last fires in Portugal, that the heavy means of fighting fires from Morocco and Russia came more quickly than those announced eternally by the European Union. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u159	It is noted here that the European Union spends much more quickly and in a much more effective way money on militarism than on civil protection mechanisms complementary to nationals. I also wanted to say that it is important to improve civil protection in our country. The PSD has done little or nothing to improve it; on the contrary, it has participated in the privatization of air means to combat fires, leaving the State hostage to privates, which blackmail the price and the means made available. The PSD and CDS also contributed to the degradation of the fireman profession...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u160	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u161	... and cut the exemption from moderate rates for firefighters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u162	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u163	...a thing so small, but so symbolic, of the contempt that the PSD and the CDS-PP have for the firefighters of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u165	For the CFP, it matters—and our proposals are aimed at improving civil protection mechanisms—, it is essential to establish a risk card. We need to assess in our country what the risks from the point of view of civil protection, adjust the means and then define an organic structure. It is necessary to strengthen the means, of course. With firefighters in particular, it is necessary to improve funding mechanisms, as proposed by the CFP. And the State must have its own means of combating fires, including heavy aircraft and helicopters, so that we do not become dependent on private persons. Just as it is fundamental, with regard to SIRESP, a topic addressed by almost all the banks in this debate, that the State builds a public network for emergency communications. Dependency, PPP (public-private partnership) SIRESP has proved disastrous for public and operationally disastrous. The responsibility of maintaining a PPP that favours private and impairs the public record must be harassed both the PS, the PSD, and the CDS, who continue to bet on this model which is expired and broken. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u166	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u167	Finally, Mr President, I just want to focus on one point: for the CFP, education in civil protection is fundamental. We need to improve the capacity, knowledge, training of Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u168	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u169	...from school to old age, with regard to training in civil protection, because these are effectively the first civil protection agents in a disaster situation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u170	Mr Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: The disturbing question we have raised to the plenary was this: has the government dealt more fully, more transparently, with European solidarity as a result of the fires in Portugal? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it may not have been illegal, but it is certainly immoral. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, the arguments listed herein by the parties that support the Executive do not even explain the government's wrong options in defining the rules for implementing and implementing the European Union Solidarity Fund. Your interventions, those of the PS bank, the Left Block, the PCP, only show that they are the political laundry of the socialist government. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] They prefer to whiten the government rather than demand greater transparency and better implementation of these funds, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. They only show that they are the government's political laundromat! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members, the allocation of more than 50 % of the Fund's funds for central ministry services, rather than using State budgets, is a new form of captivating, this time on European solidarity. This option naturally decreases the funds available for applications by authorities for essential functions of the affected populations and the implementation of the Fund's candidatures so far anticipates a high risk of loss of Community funds. Mrs. Members, if there is any doubt, just consult the Portugal 2020 website — open applications, compensation for fire damage in 2017 — and we see 'no results'. That is how it is described, in a synthetic way, another chapter on the governance and action of the Socialist Government in this matter: no results! The PSD is deeply concerned about the enormous recovery work it is still about to do. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to remember one more chapter. In August 2016, Madeira experienced genuine moments of distress and pain with fires, in several fronts and in several municipalities, causing fatal victims and widespread damage both human and material. Following this disaster, the Government of the Republic has assumed a strengthening of the European Cohesion Fund's funds to recover the losses of the population, and in view of the imperative need to ensure the safety of stems and surrogate slopes, whose stability has been at grave risk. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about the safety of our population. Support was quantified at EUR 30, EUR 5 million. The Government of the Republic withdrew in support, in total disrespect for Madeira and the Madeirans. The Madeirans want to know the truth! Why did the then Minister of Infrastructure, and now head of socialist list, Pedro Marques, block what he promised Madeira? Even with regard to these fires, it is incomprehensible that the European Union can act faster, acting soon as the Solidarity Fund for Madeira, faster than the Republic itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate serves to evaluate the past and the present, but also to look to the future. All the recent tragedies that have plagued our country and our population have made it clear that national responses to these disasters are insufficient. The PSD is not content with the status quo and, instead of a utopian manifesto with unrealistic measures, as the PS does with its mirage of the social contract, it presents concrete and realistic measures that meet the needs of our population in the European elections. This is why the PSD includes a proposal for a mechanism that evolves into a genuine European civil protection force on a permanent basis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u174	It already exists! It already exists! It was approved in February!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u175	... based on a mixed and decentralized system, which enables each Member State to specialize and be co-financed according to its needs and the disasters to which it is most exposed. [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]] I am telling Mrs Margarida Marques to read the manifesto, because it may serve as an inspiration for you instead of just doing unrealistic things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u176	I read!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u177	Mrs. Members, the Portuguese have seen the devastation of the fires of June and October 2017 and the fires in Madeira in 2016. Today, there is another form of stupefaction, as the Government is managing Community support.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u178	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Portuguese will not realize that the Community aid achieved by the exceptional nature of the disaster does not have the best use, application and full use of the financial amount. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. It is on our agenda today, but without time for debate, the motion for a resolution No 88/ XIII/4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016. We can then turn to the regimental votes, to what I ask the services to start the electronic quorum verification system. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report on the file you entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Draft Resolution Nos 2152 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Sao Tome and Principe, 2153 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Allocation of a state property to the municipality of Ribeira Grande and 2154 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines and approve its own legislation with a view to recognizing the existence of a working link with family workers working in IPSS and in the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The electronic system still doesn't allow registration, so we'll wait a little longer. I would ask the services to proceed more quickly. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in a position to check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic framework records 204 meetings, to which 5 are added — of the Members of the PS Elza Pais and Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PSD Members Hugo Lopes Soares and Fernando Virgílio Macedo and of the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto — making a total of 209 Members and Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin by voting vote No 825 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Carlos Justino Cordeiro, who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 4th Carlos Justino Cordeiro. Since very young Carlos Cordeiro participated actively in the social life of Alenquer, already integrating, at the age of 16, social bodies of collectivities that he has always served throughout life and where early performed functions, guessing to him a life of sharing and dedication to the common good. Even during the dictatorship, he was a delegate of the list of General Humberto Delgado, at the table in Alenquer, where he was born, and he was recognized as a long-standing republican and resistance to the New State, and was also a member of the CDE ( Democratic Electoral Commission ), a member of the 1969 elections. Following 25 April, he took an active part in local policy, involving himself in the partisan intervention that led to the formation of the Administrative Commission, which took over the offices of the council and was responsible for ensuring the first electoral procedures. Autar elect, its verticality and its ethical sense of politics have brought him respect and esteem from all, including from his political opponents. during his civic intervention, he also incorporated the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group into the Assembly of the Republic into three legislatures. In his last term, he chaired the subcommittee responsible for evaluating the creation of municipalities, parishes and cities. the personality of Carlos Justino Cordeiro highlights his humanism, his persistence in the struggle for freedom and his superior ability to transmit to younger generations the fundamental principles and values of democracy and the example in the exercise of citizenship. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Carlos Cordeiro and presents its heartfelt condolences to his family and friends and to the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u184	Thank you very much, Secretary Sandra Pontedeira. The family of Carlos Justino Cordeiro is present and I also join this vote. Let us then vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now pass to Vote No 826 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Sidonio Manuel Vieira Fernandes. Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, would like to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u185	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On May 4th, Sidonio Manuel Vieira Fernandes died, an unmistakable figure of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, leaving a feeling of dismay and sorrow. Born on 20 April 1953, Sidonio Manuel Vieira Fernandes took on prominent roles throughout his life in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, particularly in sport and in the Public Administration. Graduated in Finance by the Higher Institute of Economics, he was Regional Director of Human Resources, Director of Studies and Planning Services and Coordinator of Higher Education, Deputy Regional Director of the Regional Secretariat of Parliamentary Affairs and Communication and also President of the Madeira Employment Institute. In the sports world, it is inevitably associated with basketball, one of its great passions, having founded and led the Club Friends of Basketball (CAB). from the personality of Sidonio Manuel Vieira Fernandes we highlight his humanism, his enormous sense of civic responsibility, his dedication to the public cause, education and culture and his commitment to the construction of a better society. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest regret to the family and friends of Sidonio Manuel Vieira Fernandes. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u186	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1499 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Construction of road linkage in motorway profile between Viseu and Coimbra, ensuring an open solution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 7 PS (Christina Jesus, Elza Pais, João Gouveia, José Rui Cruz, Marisabel Moutela, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques and Pedro Coimbra).]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution we just voted down to 6. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution No 1486 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends re-qualification of IP3, maintenance without tolls and in safety conditions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution also goes down to 6. the Commission. We now vote in general on draft resolution No 1663 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the main route No 3 ( IP3 ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] the same way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. Still on the IP3, we proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1634 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Urgent requalification of IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, and its maintenance without tolls. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and PS abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u187	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u188	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u189	Mr. President, it is to announce to the House that, on behalf of the Members elected by the electoral circle of Coimbra, I myself, Elza Pais, João Gouveia and Cristina Jesus will present a declaration of vote on these four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u190	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u191	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Members elected by the Viseu electoral circle will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u192	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 188 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the law of military infrastructure. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This bill goes down to 3. the Commission. We are now voting in general on the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PS were adopted against the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1769 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent re-qualification of Horta Airport. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. I also note that there is object identity with Resolution Projects Nos 1752 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 1762 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ), 1765 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) e 1766 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ), which are pending for assessment in the specialty, for the purposes of Article 150. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Information shall be given to the Commission thereof. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The viability of the company, the safeguarding of all jobs and the fulfilment of the rights of workers of DURA Automotive Portuguesa, Lda. ( Watch ) [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also voted for draft resolution No 2135 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) - Recommends that the Government develop the site management plan and PEP covering the territories of the municipalities of Moura, Mourão, Barrancos and Serpa, that the Tourism Strategy 2027 consecrate nature as a strategic asset and contain mechanisms to combat seasonality and create special measures to support agriculture and agro-industries. We begin by voting on points 1 and 2 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions by the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u193	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u194	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u195	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the vote on point 3 of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u196	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2103 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government that the value corresponding to the revenue of value added tax charged on solidarity fund raising campaigns for the recent tragedy in Mozambique by telephone be reverted directly to the very cause that ends the campaign. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] Mr Duarte Marques, I know you signaled the Bureau to use the floor, but you cannot interrupt the votes. If you want, now that the vote is over, you can say what effect you intend to use the word for.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u197	Mr President, I am sorry, but I wanted to point to a conflict of personal interests in this matter and I wanted to have done so before Mr President put the vote into effect. I tried to interrupt the vote, but as I could not, I do it now. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u198	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u199	Mr President, I would like to point out that with regard to the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), the PSD Parliamentary Group abstained. The PSD vote was announced as in favour, but no, Mr President, we abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u200	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In any case, the vote should be clearly signalled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u201	But we signaled!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u202	in this case, Mr President, our vote was wrong, right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u203	Mrs. Members, the proposal remains approved, but in any event I will announce again the result of the vote on the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u204	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u205	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u206	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CDS bench will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 2103 / XIII / 4. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u207	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote on draft resolution No 1672 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government remove administrative obstacles to the enforcement of the right to family reunification of immigrants and applicants for international protection in Portugal. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote in general on draft resolution No 1875 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to guarantee the right to a decent housing for refugees in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This draft resolution is down to 1. the Commission. We also vote in general on the draft resolution No 1877 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) - Recommends that the Government review the admission criteria to the programme « Portuguese for all ». [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 796 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable works to be carried out at the André de Gouveia School in Évora. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Norberto Patinho and PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This draft resolution goes down to 8. We now vote, also in general, on Resolution Project No 2096 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work at the André de Gouveia High School in Évora and removes all existing fibrosis in its construction. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS Member Norberto Patinho and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We also vote in general on the draft resolution No 2150 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By the urgent requalification of the André de Gouveia High School in Évora. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Norberto Patinho and PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u208	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u209	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u210	Mr President, I would just like to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2065 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government make available and disclose regularly the information related to the responses created in the context of prevention, contingency, regulation and support to farmers and livestock producers in drought situations. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PAN, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote in general on draft resolution No 2111 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate the effects of drought. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2132 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government exceptional measures to support farmers affected by drought. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the Drafts of Law Nos 929 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — eliminates the deadline for dismantling end-of-life vehicles in slaughter centres ( amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) and 1075 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — End of one year to dismantle vehicles in certified centres. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u213	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u214	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will make a written statement of vote on this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bills Nos 1026 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns the collection of samples of water and biofilms in situations of clustering or outbreak to environmental health technicians (first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ), 1068 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Allocation to environmental health technicians of public health units the collection of water samples in the context of environmental research in the identification of sources of contamination and dissemination of Legionella ( makes the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease ), and 1084 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August, in order to confer on environmental health technicians competences for the collection of samples of water and biofilms in the field of epidemiological research ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on the Proposal for a Law No 184 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the overall review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolutions Nos 1976 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1998 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase measures to improve the capacity to respond to situations of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Education and Science Committee, on draft Law No 1117 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Determines as the only consequence of failure to comply with the payment of propines the non-recognition of the academic act. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, regarding the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science, on Parliamentary Assessments No 126 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 127 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, which mitigates the effects of the freezing that took place between 2011 and 2017 in the teaching career, we now have to vote for two requests submitted by the CDS-PP and the PSD, respectively, of a vote for plenary in the speciality of the proposed amendment to Article 2 ( 1 ). the -A of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, as set out in Article 3. the final text and the proposed amendments to Articles 1. o is 2. the -A of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019, of 15 March, contained in Articles 2. o is 3. that of the same final text. What has been common practice is that when lawyers are approved, there is only time for discussion. There is no time to present the lawyers and another time for discussion. However, if the parliamentary groups understand that there must be a time for presentation and another time for discussion, there will be time for everything, because today we have time for everything. [[Pause.]] So let's give Mrs Ana Rita Bessa two minutes to submit the CDS-PP requirement. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The request that the CDS submits is that this plenary vote on the proposal that we have been repeating almost two years ago, which we presented during the discussion of the State budget for 2019 and which we have resubmitted in the parliamentary assessments of the Government's diploma. The proposal is this: Recognizing a principle, there were two periods of freezing the career of teachers, both determined by José Socrates, in a total of 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, that the terms of the implementation of this principle are negotiated from 2020, considering: the country's economic and financial conditions, the revision of the Statute of the Teaching Career, the use of this time for retirement purposes. This is the only way for a fair solution for teachers, but also for the remaining Public Administration and for taxpayers in general, sustainable, because it assumes the career review and evaluation of teachers, and stable so that students and their families can have the tranquillity in public school for a consolidated and quality learning. That was always what we said and for the CDS it couldn't be any other way. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u217	To submit the request of the PSD, Mr Pedro Pimpão, who has two minutes, has the floor. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is also required to advocate by the plenary of the proposed amendments, in order to ensure the accounting of service time which should be considered as proportional to the growth of the economy and which will be observed in compliance with the rule contained in the Stability and Growth Pact, so that the increase in staff spending in the budgetary area of basic and secondary education and school action cannot mean that the annual limit of expenditure growth should be exceeded, so as to ensure the sustainability and accounting with the available resources, as we advocate, and also that the recovery of service time, with effect from 2020 and subsequent years, the terms and how this realization of consideration of the remaining time must meet the criteria of commitment of society with the resources available to the country's economic and financial situation and the future sustainability of the public education system, in particular at the level of the need for rejuvenation of the teaching staff, career reviews, the pace of appointments and future needs of our educational system, as it presents as an initial proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u219	Mrs. Members, let us then vote together on the request submitted by the CDS-PP for the full vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 2 ( 1 ). the -A of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, as set out in Article 3. that of the final text mentioned above, as well as the request submitted by the PSD, for the full vote in the speciality of the proposals for amendments to Articles 1. o is 2. the -A of the same Decree-Law, contained, respectively, in Articles 2. o is 3. that of the final text. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the debate. Each parliamentary group has 3 minutes. [[Pause.]] If the Bureau does not register any requests for intervention, we shall immediately proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs Margarida Mano, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u220	Mr. President, dear colleagues... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u221	I would ask you to remain silent and respectful so that your colleague can intervene. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have stated here, in the plenary, less than a month ago, that the PSD proposal reflected a firm commitment of responsibility and confidence from the country to education. Last week, we made the fair recovery of the time of service for teachers, at the centre of social consultation, repulsable for special careers. We have seen some of the principles we stand for, but not all. The safeguards clauses of the Stability and Growth Pact and the compromise criteria with the society we advocate have led by the parties that support the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u224	We did not abdicate these principles, we never did. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] We are a party to rights and duties, we are not just a party to rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u225	In the PSD, we look at people, students and teachers with a sense of responsibility. We look at the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u226	Exchange is what you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u227	You son of a bitch! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u228	I ask the benches to maintain the calm possible and demanding! [[Continued PSD protests.]] I would ask you to remain silent, because Mrs Margarida Mano has no way of continuing until they make silence and time will be discounted, as is obvious. Mrs Margarida Mano, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are here because of the sole responsibility of the Socialist Party,... [[PSD applause.]] ...the same party that froze, in 2007, the races, froze them in 2009 before the elections, and froze them after the elections. [[PSD applause.]] The PS, who considers to play people a gift worthy of praise! In the Government, Dr. Mário Centeno estimates oscillating impacts with margins of error of 30 %; the Prime Minister installs chaos and hides behind a surplus; here in Parliament, the Socialist Party Members who promised in 2017 to consider all the time of service to teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u230	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u231	... are the same ones that dropped last week the financial safeguard clauses that we advocate today. [[PSD applause.]] That is, they were in favour of counting all the time without conditions, but now they are against counting all the time with conditions. [[PSD applause.]] After all, where is seriousness, credibility and rigor? Today is the day to vote. The Socialist Party, which supports this government's announced resignation, has an obligation today to safeguard the concerns of financial balance that has been manifested. You can only vote in favour of articles avoked by the PSD. It's in your hands! The PSD will vote in consistency the final diploma... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u232	...and will look, in coherence, at the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua spoke by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is the day the masks fall. Everything indicates that the Socialist Party will vote against the budgetary brakes it says are necessary and that the PSD and the CDS will vote against the time counting of the teachers, who said they were of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u236	With government numbers unmasked by UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) there is, after all, no risk of financial instability for the country. [[PS protests.]] The parties were held hostage by their tactics. Things have been again what they have always been: for the Socialist Party, an electoral campaign maneuver at the expense of the teachers, which lets us think how far the PS will be able to go, by the unmeasured ambition of an absolute majority. [[PS protests.]] [[PSD laughter.]] For the PSD and CDS, things have become what they have always been, an artisan to get the vote from the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u238	As a result, the Socialist Party did not hesitate to leave the conclusion of this legislation in the right hands. He blackmailed, made an ultimatum to the right and PS, PSD and CDS retreated. They knew exactly what they were voting for. They can now find the scapegoats they understand, but Assumption Christians and Rui Rio knew exactly what they were voting for. What they didn't know was that the government was going to blackmail and, when the government did blackmail, PSD and CDS went back and wanted to hide that retreat back from a left visa for the review of the Statute of the Teaching Career and for the introduction of criteria that would prevent the future negotiation of the full counting of teachers' time of service. They wanted to hide their retreat behind a visa on the left to bring the troika back through the horse door.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u239	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u240	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the teachers are ill and the country is ill when the parties are not faithful to their votes. The Left Block will be faithful to what it voted for: the full recognition of teachers' career, the immediate recognition of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days and the subsequent recognition by negotiation of the remaining service time. Without pirouettes or troikas, teachers and workers in this country know that they count on the Block of the Left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP will vote in favour of the text which came out of the Committee on Education and Science and will vote against the proposals of the PSD and the CDS which annul the same text. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u243	The CFP proposals that have fully responded to teachers' demands are no longer under discussion today. What is now under discussion is the text resulting from the votes in the Commission which realises the full counting of the time of service and which results not only from proposals from the CFP, but from the various parliamentary groups, where it is admired also whether PSD and CDS are included.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u245	A text that, despite leaving the recovery calendar indefinite, reaffirms the full counting of service time, prevents overruns and that, from Thursday to Saturday, was defended by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u246	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u247	It is also worth recalling the phrase given by Mrs Margarida Mano at the end of the Thursday meeting, which considered that the fundamental thing had been set out in the Commission text and that Parliament then defended the State as a good person.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u248	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u249	The proposals of the PSD and the CDS which have been piped in the Commission are not, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, just financial safeguards. We cannot vote in favour of proposals which, on the pretext of financial and budgetary aspects, in practice, is to nullify the full counting of the time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u251	Mrs. Members, subjecting the recovery to the rate of GDP growth, to the evolution of public debt, to compliance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact would result in what? A zero rotundo!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u252	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u253	More serious, even, are proposals that contain a very violent attack on workers' rights, imposing revisions of careers, plural: it is not only that of teachers. But specifically, it is true, they attack precisely the Statute of the Teaching Career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u254	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u255	Make this work, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it would be to pass a blank check for the destruction of careers won by the determination and strength of workers' struggle. The PCP will not pass that check.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u256	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u257	PSD and CDS still have an opportunity to demonstrate that the PS did not stick them in the pocket and that of them made the mule I needed. [[Four Budgets! Four!]] [[Four Budgets! Four!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u258	Don't stand up, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u259	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u260	I conclude, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is enough that, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the avocados, PSD and CDS-PP will vote in favour of the text they have approved and also defended until last weekend! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u261	For an intervention, you have the floor by Parliamentary Group The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps we should remember what we were doing in the Education Commission when we adopted a text that determined the counting of all time of service for the purpose of advancing the career of teachers, without any further impact on the State budget for 2019 — it is important that this also be explicit — and with a planned later negotiation process, particularly between the government and the trade unions. This was essentially approved by the Commission. The PSD and the CDS voted in favour of this text in the Commission and, Mrs Margarida Mano, will excuse me, but their statements at the end of the meeting also made the same reading as the PSD position. The honourable Member cannot simply make a blackout on her statements, as the Government intends to make a blackout on teachers' time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u264	What the honourable Member said, in addition to other things which have already been mentioned here, was the following: « Our vote will allow the government to go to negotiations with all degrees of freedom to decide». Therefore, the process was determined and, including, the honourable Member determined what the Government should do later on to what you had voted on in the Commission. So everything was settled. What happened? We all know and everything is well known to the public: Mr. Prime Minister makes a threat, a blackmail and determines that it will be dismissed, if that text is approved. We all recognize that you did it by electoral strategy, and that's not fair, it's not right. But what was the response of PSD and CDS? It was "turning the kiss to the nail" and saying, "So, okay! If so, we simply change our position and that will not happen. And they did so, in a way that was absolutely shaken. They have set a pretext for making the text which they had agreed and voted on in the Commission impossible. That's not right! That's not loyal! How does the honourable Member get to the plenary today to say that they have made a firm commitment to the teachers? No, Madam Member, your firmest commitment to the PSD, the CDS, and the PS, is always with the same : with the great economic and financial interests. For those never fails, Mrs. Deputy! Never, never fails!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u266	They made no firm commitment to the teachers. Moreover, what is announced here today to happen is a betrayal to teachers and also to other special bodies. An absolute betrayal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u267	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u268	On the Green side, we are fighting for great coherence and loyalty, and that is exactly why we are going to vote on the Commission text. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u269	For an intervention, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the recovery of the teaching career, we already know that Rui Rio did not make the accounts, because he himself said, publicly, it is impossible to make the accounts. But even without the accounts made, at the end of the vote, in the speciality in the Commission, the Vice-President of the bench, in permanent telephone consultation with Rui Rio, proclaimed a process where the PSD was proud to have been the fundamental party to a responsible and correct solution. Without making the accounts and without the clauses it now presents, it now falls, the PSD found it responsible and correct a measure which, if it respected the equity between careers and adding to the thawing, would cost, at cruise speed, EUR 800 million per year of permanent expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We all understand what these clauses are for: if Rui Rio were government, they would be an excuse for the bad payer to dishonor what they voted for here! Being the PS Government, they will serve to Rui Rio to continue to feed labour tension in public school. After the country realized what Dr. Rui Rio was doing, they return the clauses, but we don't feed chimeras, we don't have a time machine to change the past, but we take care of the future. Therefore, we underline the guarantee of Mário Centeno, telling the teachers to serve the diploma: this career does not stop again! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our sustainability clauses are the right accounts, the right accounts of a whole legislature! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right accounts that allowed the recovery of income and rights, controlling the deficit, beginning to reduce public debt and avoiding the devil that you called. [[PSD protests.]] We do not approve the right-wing clauses that only serve to try to deceive everyone at the same time, telling some that they pay everything and tell others that it costs nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u271	It does not go back to the preterit time before the great worldwide recession that you think only happened here, do not recover the suffering of the unemployed, do not recover those who have been pushed into emigration, do not recover those who have lost their family home and do not recover the time of service of the tens of thousands of teachers who have been thrown into unemployment by the gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u272	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u273	I will finish, Mr. President. One thing is certain: it is not the PS who is trying to leave the photograph of the « last supper» of the negative coalition! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u274	For the last intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS proposal has been known for two years. It was presented on all public occasions: it was presented at all meetings with the unions, it was presented in the State Budget of 2019 and was presented again in parliamentary assessments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u276	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u277	After all the interventions and all the data that are now known, the scenario announced is that of rejection of the proposal, responsible, of the CDS. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to choose between two irresponsibilities: or the demagogy of the Bloc and the PCP, which they think it is possible to promise everything to all public officials, without condition not to be that of illusion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u278	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u279	... or the hypocrisy of the PS, which, knowing that special careers are not sustainable for the country's accounts, did not have the political courage to negotiate its review during four years of governance. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u280	It's democracy, you have to listen! They don't like it, but that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u281	Rejecting the CDS proposal is closing the door to a responsible and balanced path,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... in which the future would not be the greatest tax burden ever, nor a cyclical and repeated freezing, but rather the inevitability of the review of Public Administration careers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party thus leave the country to vote against the CDS proposal, with another missed opportunity, for four years of governance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u282	In February, they censor; in May, they save!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u283	We shall proceed to the vote, in the speciality, whose proposals for amendments have been the subject of requests for legal aid. Let us first vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PSD to add Article 1 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 Subject and scope 1 — [...] 2 — [...] 3 — The accounting of the time set out in paragraph 1 tendentially, should be considered proportional to the growth of the economy, compliance with the rule contained in the Stability and Growth Pact will be observed, so that increased expenditure on staff in the budgetary area of basic and secondary education and school administration cannot mean exceeding the annual ceiling on expenditure growth in order to ensure sustainability and compatibility with available resources.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u284	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 1 ). the -A of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, as set out in Article 3. that of the final text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 - Accounting and recovery of service time 1 — [...]: a) [...]. (b).... (c) With effect from 2020 and subsequent years, the remaining period of service and not considered in the previous articles shall be the subject of negotiation as regards the terms of its recovery, considering: a. The country's economic and financial conditions, in particular according to the rate of GDP growth; b. The possibility of revision of the Statute of the Teaching Career; c. E, in the case of teachers positioned on the 9th and 10th steps, and at the request of the teacher, the use of this remaining time for retirement purposes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u285	We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 1 ). the -A of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, as set out in Article 3. that of the final text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Recovery of Service Time 1 — With effect from 2020, and subsequent years, the terms and methods of implementing the consideration of the remaining time for full recovery of unaccounted time for career progression or other purposes are established by the Government, in a negotiation process, taking into account the company's commitment criteria with: i. the resources available in relation to the country's economic and financial situation, taking into account in particular the rate of GDP growth and the evolution of public debt; ii. the future sustainability of the public education system, including the need for rejuvenation of teaching staff, career reviews, the pace of retirements and future needs of the education system. 2 —...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u286	We shall move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on Parliamentary Assessments Nos 126 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 127 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 36 / 2019, of 15 March, which mitigates the effects of the freezing between 2011 and 2017 on the teaching career. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u287	It's a little bit of an exchange!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u288	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u289	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u290	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u291	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u292	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u293	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u294	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP intends to make an oral vote on this vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u295	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u296	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u297	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u298	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u299	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u300	Mr President, it is to announce that MEPs Carla Barros, Maria das Mercês Borges and Pedro Roque, of the PSD, who are also national leaders of the Social Democrats ( TSD ), will present a declaration of vote. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u301	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u302	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make a personal statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u304	I would like to announce, Mr President, that I shall make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u305	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u306	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u307	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u308	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u309	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u310	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the Left Block will make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u311	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on draft resolutions Nos 824 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Continental Platform and 907 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the enhancement of the extension of the Continental Platform. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then move on to the oral voting statements that have been announced, each having the time of 2 minutes. To that end, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has always happened, PSD and CDS have been the PS crutch in everything that is negative. [[PSD protests.]] In all decisions that affect workers' rights, there is the convergence between PS, PSD and CDS, as it has again happened today. The CFP set out for the parliamentary assessment of service time with a serious, constructive and coherent stance. [[And four State budgets!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u313	Despite the proposals of the CFP have not been fully approved — in particular, the seven-year phase-out of the full accounting of service time, the consideration of this year's 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, on 1 January 2019, eliminating surpluses, and the use of time for retirement or access to 5. a is 7. the steps— was reached a final text, for which PSD and CDS have even contributed, but now shamefully renounced. The PSD and the CDS formally « turned the kiss to the nail » and betrayed the teachers. The PSD and the CDS validated the final results of the votes, in committee, on Thursday night, and during Friday day, boasting until the solution that had been reached.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u314	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u315	In the face of the threat of resignation of the PS government, dictated by mere electoralist calculation, the PSD and the CDS yielded to blackmail, retreated to the position they had assumed and again undermined the rights of workers, maintaining convergence with the PS, in submission to the European Union's taxes. Workers have once again confirmed that they cannot count on the PSD and the CDS to defend their rights. At the time of truth, PSD and CDS support PS,... [[PSD laughter.]] [[Four Budgets!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u316	... giving the strength that the Socialist Party alone did not have in the Assembly of the Republic to deny the real and effective recovery of the time of service to the workers of the special careers of the Public Administration. We need to move on! The CFP will not give up and will continue the struggle for the full realization of the rights of all workers and for the full counting of the time of service. The 9 years, 4 months and 2 days are a right that must be fulfilled and that must be realized through the struggle of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u317	For a statement of vote, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u318	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, we do not support the PS! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u319	They're done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u320	Mr President, the process that culminated in today's vote on counting the time of service of the teachers, dropped the mask to Prime Minister Antonio Costa, in management,... [[PSD applause.]] ...who wants to be, at all costs and in all haste, Prime Minister, without management,... [[PSD applause.]] ... thus revealing their lack of sense of state and responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u321	A Prime Minister who forges, sets up and dramatizes a political crisis, with the sole aim of trying to divert attention from the real problems of the Portuguese, is never to become a statesman. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u322	A Prime Minister who, in the heat of the tragedies of the 2017 fires, said that he would not resign if similar tragedies were repeated but who now does so because of a law that might hypothetically be passed in Parliament, is neither and could never become a statesman. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u323	the PS was given the opportunity by the PSD to vote in favour of a standard that ensured the balance of public accounts. What did the Socialist Party do? He voted against! And why? Because to trust the PS the guarantee of good accounts is like to trust the fox the guard of the chicken. [[PSD applause.]] That is why the speech of responsibility in the mouth of a socialist government does not work. It didn't hit right when you drove the country to bankruptcy, and it doesn't work right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u324	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u325	The PSD has in its DNA the struggle for conditions of economic and financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u326	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u327	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the PS spends and ruins; the PSD saves and composes the country's accounts. This has always been the case! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u328	Not even Rio trusts you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u329	For a statement of vote, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For moments, I thought I was hearing bad Mr Fernando Negrão, when he said periodically « we do not support the PS ». [[PSD protests.]] Let's go! Yes, sir! It is that what happened here, now, was not an optical illusion, was a decision with concrete impact on the lives of thousands of professionals, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u331	They're kneeling!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u332	It was a decision that had a concrete impact on the lives of these professionals. Well, I don't think it's worth playing like you did.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u333	They're kneeling!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u334	What happened here was absolutely embarrassing and clearly demonstrated that the PSD and CDS, as the PS had already done in this matter, have no word, are not reliable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens, we did everything within our reach, in particular with the contribution to the introduction of a clear standard, regarding the counting of service time, in the State budgets for 2018 and for 2019, through the presentation of a draft resolution to the Assembly of the Republic, which was approved with the favourable votes of the PS, which determined the counting of all time of service in black and white, and which, having been approved, resulted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] We did everything that was within our reach, we were responsible, we were serious, we were consistent, we were loyal and consistent and permanently pro-active.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u335	They've been tricked by the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u336	But in this matter everything was worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS. at the point of government simulate negotiations with unions, empollising numbers and accounts, to dramatize the issue, to get better in photography. It was worth the threat of resignation, by absolutely electoralist logic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u337	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mrs Deputies, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u338	I will finish, Mr. President. And the PSD and the CDS then did everything they could to support the government, completely nullifying their vote in committee. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u339	For a statement of vote, you have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u340	Mr President, it does not take much to explain the vote of the Socialist Party in this vote, because we have always said the same from the beginning and have always voted the same from the beginning. [[PSD member Pedro Pimpão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u341	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u342	We always said that it was necessary to try the recovery of service time, we always said that this had to be done in negotiation between government and trade unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u344	... and we always appealed to the government and the unions to do this negotiation. Those who encouraged the unions to take the government as an enemy, instead of taking the government as a partner, have helped to harm this whole process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what is most shocking in this case is that Mr. Fernando Negrão does not know how to respect the honour not only of his parliamentary group but also of this Parliament. As his predecessor apparently said, the former parliamentary leader of the PSD, « Rui Rio, whenever he has an affliction, blames the parliamentary group ». And the parliamentary group, or its leader, comes here to defend those who humiliate the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u345	Get in your life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u346	It is that we do not make hate statements to the other parliamentary groups, as you did recently,... [[PSD protests.]] ...because, for us, all here represent the people, this part or that part, this opinion or that opinion. We don't hate anyone, we argue. This statement of hatred is antidemocratic, it is anti-parliamentary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But the PS never deluded with the PSD and CDS maneuver. We well knew what the PSD and CDS wanted to do. They wanted to fool the teachers and the Portuguese at the same time. So we voted the same thing from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u347	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u348	Who has gone to "change the hat" that is understood, because it is not our case. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u349	Finally, you have the floor for a statement of vote by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u350	Mr. President, today, the mask has fallen to the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u351	Yours is down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u352	The Left Block will not give up fighting for the full recovery of the time of service of the teachers' career, on equal with the teachers of the Azores and Madeira. And we will not give up fighting for the full recovery of service time of special careers, on equal terms with general careers. Teachers, civil servants and workers count on the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-10.u353	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Monday 13 at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the fiftieth anniversary debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 47 minutes.]]
