ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. First of all, Secretary Pedro Alves will take note of an opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees is on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Manuel Caldeira Cabral ( PS ), Braga electoral circle, and its replacement by Palmira Maciel Fernandes of the Costa, with effect from 17 June, including the opinion in the sense of resignation and the replacement concerned are to be admitted, since legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will enter the first item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on environmental policies and enhancement of the territory. To give the initial intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Climate change is the most important political, social and economic challenge of the 21st century. Limiting global warming to 1, 5 °C, in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, requires an unprecedented transformation of our societies. We are well aware that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which will be most affected by the effects of climate change on coastal erosion, the risks of rising seawater levels, desertification, forest fires. So we wanted to set the example and we were the first country in the world, in 2016, to assume that we would be carbon neutral in the year 2050 and last June 6 in a Council of Ministers especially devoted to the environment, we were also the first country to conclude and approve the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality. To achieve neutrality in 2050, Portugal will have to reduce its emissions by 85 % and increase its carbon slurry capacity by 25 %. All sectors will have to contribute to this goal, in industry, in construction, in agriculture, in transport and in energy production. To achieve this goal successfully will be the most important mission of our own and of the next generations. We have heard the appeals of the thousands of young people who have mobilized for the student climate strike. in this 30-year journey, we have to make the next decade the most demanding in combating climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal will reach 2030 without coal plants with half of the emissions compared to 2005, with 80 % of the electricity consumed from renewable sources and one third of the mobility of electricity passengers. This is our commitment to the Portuguese, but it is also Portugal's commitment to the world. To achieve carbonic neutrality, it is necessary to act on three fronts. First, reducing emissions and seeking energy independence. Portugal imports today 70 million barrels of oil per year. In 2050, this figure will be less than 10 million, representing an annual saving of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion in our imports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, it is necessary to act by strengthening our capacity for sewerage, which is essentially assured by the forest in Portugal. To achieve our goals, the burning area in rural fires will have to be reduced to half. This need reinforces this government's commitment to prevention and combat and assures us that in 10 years we will have to have a new rural landscape, with mosaics adapted to the natural conditions and forest species resistant to fire. Thirdly, it is necessary to invest in research and development, either with collaborative laboratories, which contribute to the enhancement of the endogenous resources of our rural area, or with the creation, in the Azores, of a large international research centre focused on space, in the study of the deep sea and climate change, thus valuing the role of oceans as climate regulators. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Reaching carbon neutrality is even a great project for the development of Portugal. We are not talking about costs, but about investment, the creation of new qualified jobs, new business models, new materials, new services and a more circular economy. To speak of carbon neutrality, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not, however, just talking about the future, it is also, and of course, talking about the present. in mobility, the tariff reduction plan in public transport has generated a remarkable demand growth and consequently a reduction in emissions in a sector which by 2030 will have an obligation to emit less than 40 % greenhouse gases. The reduction in prices of social passes is earned by families and is financed with a unique origin in the carbon rates, which are charged to those who are most polluting. This is an excellent example of positive internalization of the negative externalities of a mobility model that we have to overcome. I also refer to the acquisition of more than 700 high environmental-performance buses, of which 100 are already circulating in the country, and the rest will be in circulation by the end of next year, accompanying the investment in rail, the Mondego Mobility System and the expansion of networks or the acquisition of new compositions for the meters of Lisbon and Porto. in energy, the end of the exemption of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) in the production of electricity from coal, already in progress since last year, has contributed decisively to the reduction of emissions in its first year of operation. And, in renewables, the reinforcement of electricity production from the solar source, in two years, will increase the current capacity in 2 GW, contributing to the closure of the coal plants. There are no doubts: the cheapest way to produce electricity in Portugal is from renewable sources, and in the solar source this is unequivocal evidence. Therefore, the current model of auctions, which will set prices below the market price, is the one that best defends consumers and benefits businesses and families. Talking about climate change is actually talking about the present. Therefore, the Council of Ministers, on the same day that it approved the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, also approved the Programme of Action for the Adaptation to Climate Change, with an investment of more than EUR 700 million in the adaptation of the territory, the prevention of rural fires, the hydrographic network, the improvement of soil fertility and also in our cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Decarbonization must play hand in hand the value of the territory and the consolidation of a circular economy model. Valuing the territory means managing protected areas together with authorities, non-governmental organizations in the environmental area and higher education institutions, as human activities can also be generating biodiversity. We will be the first government in Portugal to pay the services of the ecosystems in order to withstand the necessary changes in the landscape. Valuing the territory also means fulfilling the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme ( PNPOT ), recently approved in the Assembly of the Republic, which considers natural capital a tangible asset and a set of resources that must be placed at the disposal of the common good. Valuing the territory translates into a concrete policy for low-density territories. To generate well-being, the economy has to grow; it has to grow in Portugal and it has to grow around the world. But it cannot grow, neither in Portugal nor in the world, going beyond the natural limits. Our economy must therefore change to find a rational model of adequacy. Portugal has already exhausted its resources on this date for 2019 and more developed countries that ours, such as Norway or Sweden, have exceeded these annual limits even sooner than we have. in this specific context, we are not a developed country, we are a developing country, because what is requested corresponds to an enormous effort and no less ambition. Portugal has been an example of this transformation and the public sector has been a leader. For months we have banned the use of disposable plastics in the state and we are going to anticipate in one year the directive banning them for the market in general. At present, 50 % of the cars purchased for the State or for public undertakings must be electric. We are fulfilling and distinguishing ourselves by the work done. Compared to 2005, we reduced our emissions by 22 % and increased the incorporation of renewable energy by 26 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u5	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. In 2018, we reduced the triple emissions compared with the European Union average, but this can only impose on us the responsibility and determination to go even further, incorporating renewable energy by 32 % in 2020, and 47 % in 2030. Finally, Mr President, allow me to regain the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres : in the fight against climate change, there is nothing to lose in action, there is everything to be won. That's what we're doing, that's what we need to keep on doing, with more and more determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Question Time. First of all, Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I begin by referring to the tragedy of Pedrógão Grande, since two years of its occurrence were marked yesterday. It was a tragedy that stole the lives of tens of people, mortgaged hundreds of families and reduced the aspirations of thousands of people to dust. The state has failed all along in protecting and helping these people and continues to fail in rebuilding their lives. Four months later, the tragedy repeated, the failures repeated, and the number of victims increased. in one year, 116 people lost their lives victims of fires in Portugal. On October 15 and 16, approximately 1500 homes in 36 municipalities are estimated to have suffered damage — 1500 homes! The then Minister Pedro Marques, now a socialist Euro MP, presided over the successive house construction ceremony, announcing the completion of the entire reconstruction of the houses by the end of 2018. Again, the government lied to the Portuguese! contrary to what has been said, there are not six or seven houses that are about to be built. in the last balance sheet that the CCDR-Centre ( Centre Regional Coordination and Development Commission ) made, in April 2019 there was still a 30 % percentage of houses to rebuild only in the Centre Region — 30 % of families remain unresponsive of the state. The worst thing is that we do not know the official balance sheet of all the burned houses, of all the houses that the State is supporting and those that will not be recovered. There is no transparency in the support granted to the recovery of burned houses between the fires of June and October. Mr Prime Minister, two years ago, what is the real situation, what is the real point of the situation, about the destruction of houses and their recovery? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u10	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, even yesterday this point was made at the meeting I had with the seven camera presidents and the situation was checked on a case-by-case basis. With regard to the Pedrogon fire, 90 % of the houses have already been rebuilt, with 15 houses whose payments are suspended - although five of them have already been completed - due to a set of investigations under the Public Prosecutor's Office or the suspension ordered by the Revita Fund Management Council. In conclusion, and in implementation, there are now 10 houses, having assured us that the President of the City Council of Castanheira de Pera which, by the end of this month, four will also be completed, which will go down to eight houses to conclude. There is one for which, although it is still marked as not completed, Mr. President of the Papilhosa de Serra Municipal Chamber assured us that it is already completed. We are therefore talking about seven, and these seven are in progress with the prospect of conclusion shortly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u11	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, in April 2019, CCDR-Centre said that 30% of the houses were about to be built. This is the most reliable fact that we have of the institutions that deal with this matter. And, moreover, Prime Minister, we also know from public statements by CCDR-Centre officials that more than 500 requests for support resulted in negative responses because— and I quote the information of CCDR : « Families were not eligible for the support programme and many ‘no’ had to do with urban ownership and legality ». This is the cold truth of situations. But, Prime Minister, these people need to be supported. And I ask: what does the state do to these people? Do you say no, turn your back and close your eyes? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u13	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u14	Mr President, honourable Member, the data I also quoted were the data from the CCDR yesterday. Data changes every day, because every day there are evolutions. What you have read explains everything: there are cases in which the support could not actually be granted, because the houses were built in places where, for the safety of their own or because of the rules governing the land, they cannot be rebuilt and therefore cannot be supported. That is why the support mechanisms provide for the relocation of people to or outside the same municipality, when the house cannot be built on the same site, because it does not meet the legal rules for this purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u15	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is therefore clear that these people will not cease to have State support. It is that the complaints are many, the complaints are numerous regarding the lack of support from the State in these situations. But Mr. Prime Minister has just clearly stated that these people will have effective support from the State. It is good that this is the case and that your word is fulfilled. Mr Prime Minister, on the Fridão dam, you said here, in a fortnight debate, that the Government and EDP agree on the "unnecessity of the Fridão dam" — that was the expression used. in a more recent hearing, following these statements, EDP President Antonio Mexia textually said the following about the construction of the Fridão dam: « EDP has always been available and has never considered it not to be built without being resorbed ». The formulation is complex, but the idea is very simple: either build or, not building, or compensation. You and your Environment Minister have been publicly denied. After all, Prime Minister, who speaks the truth? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u17	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u18	Mr President, Mr President, I know that you have explained several times that you do not trust my word, so it is not worth asking me any more questions, particularly on the matter of houses. As I certainly believe in the word of the camera presidents, particularly those of the PSD, I suggest that, with regard to the numerous complaints that you are talking about and that some televisions report regularly weekly, talk to the PPD/PSD camera presidents of the Central Region, and they can inform you about the reasons why there has been or has not been support in each of the specific cases. I believe that it will be very useful for your general culture and will thus verify that I do not lie and that I tell the truth when I speak. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for Fridão's dam, I'm almost moved by the concern how it exercises pro bono advocacy to protect EDP. I am touched, but EDP was very clear in expressing in writing that it had no interest to continue with the construction of the Fridão dam. from this point of view, the State should withdraw the necessary consequences and, having a coincidence of disinterest in this dam, it will not be built. If the EDP is not satisfied, it has the legal means to act in relation to the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u19	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to leave two notes: the first to say that you, Prime Minister, have nothing to do with whom I speak. And if I talk to PSD camera presidents, you only talk to PS camera presidents, and there's a problem here. [[PS protests.]] I would also like to say the following: I speak to everyone, and all the people who help the PSD Parliamentary Group are attended either by the PS or by the PSD, or by the PCP. We are not interested in party affiliation of people, we have no interest in that. [[PSD applause.]] Another thing, Prime Minister : I am a lawyer, but I am a lawyer as a member of the people. [[The laughter of Prime Minister Antonio Costa.]] Don't laugh. You are laughing because you are not Prime Minister for the people, because you do not understand the importance of being a lawyer of the people. And you get very bad, again, those insinuations you came back to. That's what you're good at insinuating. As regards the Fridão dam, EUR 218 million is concerned to be paid by EDP, as opposed to the 75-year operation, which the « electric » considers should be returned to it. Mr Prime Minister, can you guarantee that the Portuguese will not have to pay these EUR 218 million? Or will this be more of those irresponsible heritages that socialist governments are used to leaving? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u21	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u22	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, you have such prejudice in the way you ask questions that you can even hear what I do not say. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Mr. Deputy, I didn't tell you to talk to the presidents of the PSD because I'm talking to the PS. I'm talking to all the autarchs. I suggested that you talk to the PPD/PSD camera presidents because I assume that at least they can trust you. Even yesterday, I met with the seven camera presidents with whom I have regularly met since 18 June 2017. on 18 June morning I was already in the Municipal Chamber of Pedrogão Grande meeting with all the presidents of the chamber, and only the President of the Municipal Chamber of Castanheira de Pera was not present because he was still fighting the flames and had a telephone network that did not work, having not been able to contact him. I only got to talk to him that afternoon, because I went in person looking for him and if he got in touch with me it was because I lent him a cell phone from my office so he could get back in touch with the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I've been talking to everyone, and from the beginning. Mr President, I am assuming that you are reasonably familiar with the electoral geography, so I want to tell you that, at the meeting yesterday of the seven chamber presidents, at least four chamber presidents who are not of the PS were present: the President of the Municipal Chamber of the Sertã is not of the PS, the President of the Municipal Chamber of Castanheira de Pera is not of the PS, the President of the Municipal Chamber of the Pampilhosa da Serra is not of the PS, the President of the Municipal Chamber of Penela is not of the PS. Or at least they weren't even listening to you a little while ago. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr. Member, as far as EDP is concerned, the payment by EDP of more money to the State is not concerned. What EDP intends is to recover from the State what it paid, on account of a concession, in which however it expressed interest not to continue. And what the State believes is that, since EDP expressed its disinterest in continuing, there is no reason for the return of what it paid as a signal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u23	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have just insulted four very illustrious camera presidents, saying that they wander from party to party, to the taste of what they hear. [[PS laughter and protests.]] No, Mr. Prime Minister, not everyone is like you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u25	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u26	Mr. Prime Minister, in the context of the theme that brought him here in 2009 it was established that it was illegal to remove particulate filters from cars because his inhalation caused and worsened respiratory or cardiovascular diseases. Since 2017 there has been legislation for these situations, but it has not been properly regulated and, as it has not been, inspections have no capacity to detect these situations. When and what are you going to do to fix this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u28	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I did not insult any chamber president. [[Insulted, insulted!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u29	If someone disagreed with them was you, for after I had mentioned that I had met with seven chamber presidents of the territories most affected by the fires of June 17, he said they were all from the PS. I don't think that's an insult, but it's natural that having been elected by another party doesn't like the way you disagreed with them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I should like to say to you that I do not yet judge anyone, much less you, for the political developments that each of us has. The last 40 years of Portuguese political life have been excessively intense in order to demand consistency for everyone or for someone to be deprived of the right to change their views and their vision of the world. I'll never censor anyone for that and be quiet because I won't censor. But, honourable Member, there is one thing that will have difficulty, which is to tell who is militant of the same party since the 14 years that has changed to the taste of the winds. I have not, in fact, changed that, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u30	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u31	Mr President, I have a huge temptation to protest at the Bureau because Mr Prime Minister does not answer a single question. He is limited to insulting his interlocutors, whom he does not like. [[PS protests.]] That's what Mr. Prime Minister does. He's done nothing more. It doesn't answer a single question. It is a lack of respect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u32	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u33	As for the increases in public service, I am going to do a little memory exercise here, which I think will be very useful. This is because you normally have rich mouths and leave poor algebraic PSD to solve the problems. In October 2008, in the forefront of bankruptcy, the socialist government, led by the Eng.o José Socrates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u34	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u35	... announced in 2009 the largest increase in recent years in public service, which was 2, 9 %. at that time, the Minister of Finance, Teixeira dos Santos, said that this proposal for salary increase in the year of elections was in the words of Teixeira dos Santos, « a mere coincidence, which has nothing to do with the fact that it is one year with three electoral acts ». Mr. Prime Minister, see the coincidence: we are in 2019, Mr. Prime Minister announces a significant increase in salaries for public service, do so in an election year, and in an election year where there are three electoral acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u36	One has passed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u37	Mr. Prime Minister, is this just a coincidence? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u38	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u39	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, first of all, throughout this Parliament, we have scrupulously fulfilled all that we had committed to the Government Programme, with regard to the Public Administration : to restore the salary that had been cut; to restore the subsidies that had been cut; and to restore the working time that the State had unilaterally changed. And we also fulfill the wish of this year to give a sign that we could resume normalcy in the lives of all workers with an annual update of their salaries. That is why, despite having a very limited amount of nearly EUR 50 million, we have decided — rather than making an equal increase for all public officials, from the lower maturity to the maturity of the President of the Republic — to concentrate on an increase that was significant in the lives of people, that is, we have concentrated on the universe of lower incomes within the framework of the Public Administration. Thus, we ensured that the lowest income in the framework of the Public Administration over the next four years could have an increase of 25, 7 %. And this is a very important sign also for the private sector, to stimulate and encourage the private sector to have a fairer remuneration policy and to be able to increase the maturity. This has, in fact, been translated not only in the increase in the national minimum wage, but in the collective contract, where many contracts have been fortunately closed above 600 € of the national minimum wage. And this is an important sign for Portuguese society, because Portuguese society needs to significantly increase the level of income of all workers in Portugal, as well as in the Public Administration. In answer to a journalist's question...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u40	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. In response to a journalist, I had the opportunity to point out that it is essential for the State to make a significant increase in the remuneration of its superior technicians, on the ground that it is not able to compete with the private sector in the procurement of the most qualified human resources. This is a state problem that we have to assume and that needs to be resolved. No, it's not for the elections now, but it has to be resolved during the next legislature, because otherwise the state is disqualifying... [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] ... and a disqualified state is a weak state that then...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u42	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u43	...it has no ability to face and manage the strong powers with which it has to deal and which it has to know regularly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u44	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, Miguel Duarte was a volunteer of a ship that saves lives in the Mediterranean and his action was worth a process of the Italian State which does not pass a political farce of the extreme right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u47	The Block met this morning with Miguel Duarte, who told us that civilian rescue missions disappeared because of this persecution and threats of processes and of arrest to activists. It is good to note that civilians who, in the Mediterranean, save lives in an altruistic manner always do so in conjunction with official entities, particularly Italian ones. In fact, the rescue mission is for States, in the first instance, and civilians only assume it because the European Union has failed. Mr. Prime Minister, Miguel Duarte and his colleagues do not deserve judicial proceedings but, yes, our thanks, and it is important that the Portuguese State lend him all the support he deserves. We also believe that this is the time to refer to the Italian State the formal expression of our repudiation for this persecution to all who put humanity first. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u48	Mr Prime Minister, you have chosen the environment as the theme of this debate and I greet you for that. Parliament recently adopted a Block initiative, recommending to the Government the declaration of the climate emergency. This is not a symbolic issue, because recognizing the climate emergency is a national and international commitment, with concrete, faster steps, to carbon neutrality. I would therefore like to ask you whether the Government will comply with the Assembly's recommendation and declare the climate emergency and whether it has the courage to speed up the process of closure of coal plants. Our country can and should replace coal plants with solar energy and the objective should be the closure of the Sines and Pego plants by 2023, to achieve the carbon neutrality objective by 2030. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u49	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u50	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Government has never been contacted by Miguel Duarte. We have heard of the case by the social communication and, of course, we will ensure all support, diplomatic and consular, as is due to any Portuguese citizen, under any circumstances. On the other hand, we do not know the case, because we have never been given any information by that citizen. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] On the climate issue, only two countries have so far made this declaration, Ireland and the United Kingdom. They are two countries in a situation quite different from ours, since they are clearly behind the levels and commitments we have already achieved. Our commitments, and the results we have achieved and which are planned, far exceed those resulting from the declaration of the climate emergency. in our concrete case, it would not have a real consequence, it would have a purely rhetorical consequence. Now, we must focus on what is real and pursue what we have been doing. at this moment, we already have a 26 % incorporation of renewable energies in what we consume, we have a clear target for 2020, we have a clear goal for 2040, we are the first country to assume carbon neutrality in 2050, we are the first country to have a roadmap for carbon neutrality, and this is, yes, to act urgently on the need to deal with climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u51	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, scientific data tell us that the climate chaos process is accelerating and therefore it is urgent to anticipate the goals. With the climate we cannot negotiate and therefore we must act, and now. For this reason, the Bloc will propose to Parliament that it declare the climate emergency autonomously and we hope that this declaration will be an action compromise. It is not enough to appeal to individual conscious behaviors, the courage of energy conversion is needed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u53	Mr. Prime Minister, the Socialist Party announced the intention to increase wages in the upper levels of public service. The Left Block understands the concern. Skilled workers with leadership roles in the State earn less than in private and it is in fact necessary for the State to be able to keep its professionals more qualified. But that's just one of the problems we have. There are many skilled workers in the state who earn little, so little that emigration has been the way for many. Consider what happens to nurses, for example. And there are many workers who, not having very large qualifications, have too many responsibilities and wages too low. This is the case with the security forces, for example. The wage problem is therefore not only among the most qualified but also not only among the State workers. in the private sector, in Portugal, the generality of skilled workers earns very little. The increase in the minimum wage — which, in good time, remained in the agreement that we both subscribed four years ago — was widespread, but it is not difficult to find engineers and architects winning well below 1000 €. The wages in Portugal are very low. The average wage is getting closer to the minimum wage and, therefore, today, I wanted to talk to you about the private workers. Mr. Prime Minister, workers deserve more wages and more security and only this can guarantee a future project in Portugal so that emigration will no longer be a forced destination. The first step can be taken now, without waiting for the elections. The amendments to the Labour Code are being voted on at the specialist level. In order to value the work in the private sector it is necessary to end the unilateral expiry of collective contracts and restore the most favourable treatment principle, it is necessary to approve the Block proposals so that private workers have the same right to food allowance as those of the public and end the perversion, introduced in 2012, of extra hours are cheaper than hours in normal working time. Don't wait for the next legislature, do the law of work with the left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u54	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said recently, we have not only approved the roadmap for carbon neutrality, but we have also approved the action programme for adaptation to climate change, which has a set of concrete measures that are properly programmed and with a clear funding framework. That's what we're gonna do, just like we've been doing. It was not by chance that at the beginning of this government we assigned to the Ministry of the Environment competence in urban transport and it was not by chance that we now extended the competence of the Ministry of the Environment to also take up the energy area for the first time. These are two fundamental components for the conduct of environmental policy, mobility and energy, and that is why they are in the Ministry of the Environment. It is this trajectory that we must continue firmly, understanding that the measure of passes is a socially very important but environmentally essential measure to have a new paradigm of mobility. I share the view that wages are a key issue in Portugal and I have said, moreover, repeatedly, that companies have to understand that, if they want to be competitive to export, they must start by being competitive to recruit. We cannot continue to have such a significant wage level in relation to other European economies with which we are competing, on the penalty that, no matter how jobs are created, no matter how much better conditions of life in Portugal, we will not fail to suffer bleeding from our frameworks. unlike those who thought it was a good solution for the country that had this emigration, we understand that it is a good solution for the country to attract investment and fix the best human resources we have to help develop the country, helping even those who have left and want to get back to better conditions to be able to return. So it will not be in this government that you will ever find any restrictions — on the contrary! — to which we are moving forward in a wage policy of greater ambition. And I also think that perhaps this is the time, in addition to talking about minimum wages, we will start talking about other levels of remuneration, especially for qualified resources. We cannot continue to give a negative message to the young people who are in our universities about their future. The continuation of the practice of internships is not acceptable, in particular, followed by large companies. The remuneration levels which are paid by these large companies are not eligible. The gross wage disparity that exists in some of these large companies is not admissible. What I am saying here has already said in public, and I have already been very attacked by the right and by this chorus of professional commentators who exhaust and neutralize the pluralism of social communication in Portugal, saying that it was not for the government to have to think about the pay issue in private companies. But, yes, we really have to think, for the main reason that what happens in private companies is not something that happens outside our society and everything that concerns society concerns the government, it concerns politics and we need policies that respond to this reality. It is that what is at stake is not just these companies, it is not just these people, it is even the development of the country's future and the human resources that the country has invested in its formation, which cannot afford to lose because companies do not understand the essentiality of preserving the best human capital they can have at their service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u56	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not enough to appeal to companies, we have to have labour legislation that pushes the rights and wages up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u58	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u59	It is a mistake to diminish rights with the increase in short-term employment contracts and the experimental period as employers want and as the Government is proposing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u61	It is a mistake to end the legislature without taking away the troika of labour legislation and it is a mistake that this legislation ends with the government approving a law of armwork given with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u62	All right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u63	Mr Prime Minister, soon will be voted on in the Health Bases Act. The PS has always known that it will not have the help of the Left Block for a law that authorizes the logic of the privatization of the SNS through the management of public hospitals by private financial groups. The PS has already told us that it refuses to guarantee in the new Basics Law the public management of public hospitals, but, Mr. Prime Minister, it cannot impose the acceptance of PPPs as a condition of approval of the new law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u65	The Left Block has already proposed a solution to this impasse: let us repeal the current law and let the next legislature decide whether this door should be left open to the private. That is our proposal shortly in the working group. You told me here, 15 days ago, that the PPP business is little. I don't agree, but if you think so, don't let that little thing drop your job this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u67	To adopt a basic law that protects the National Health Service and access to health care is more important than imposing, in this law, the will of the Mello Group. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u69	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, if we want new labour legislation, then do not hesitate to vote on the Government's bill, which definitely restricts access to precariousness in the working relationship,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that it ceases to allow young people to seek the first job to be a factor of term contract, reduce the number of renewals, reduce the number of years in term contract and place companies who abuse the term contract. Once and for all, Madam Member, be consistent. If you want to combat precariousness, you agree with the Government's bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, on the Health Bases Act, it is also not worth confusing the essentials with the accessory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u70	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u71	The essential thing is very simple: to repeal the 1990 law, which assigns the State the duty to promote the private sector to be a competitor of the State. If you want to end this today you will pass a basic health law! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u72	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u73	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if a company can have, for an increasingly long trial period, a young person who is fired at the end without compensation, even then putting another one, there is more precarious. Young people are not disposable and the vote of the Left Block is in a law that will be more precarious. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On health, let me tell you one thing: the essential thing is in the legacy that they left us Antonio Arnaut and John Semedo, universality. We have taken the step in moderating rates and at the end of promiscuity with the private sector, and that is why the decision on PPPs is important. If we do not agree, let us stay for the next legislature, but now we defend a basic health law that takes steps. And we'll be here till the last day to give them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u74	It costs you! It's natural! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u75	It is the Socialist Party that, at this time, has to make choices that define the future that you want. Do you want to pass a law on the right and not on the left? Do you want to put down the work of a basic law to maintain the law of base of right health and we do not have a basic law that saves the National Health Service? These are the questions that are put to the Socialist Party and are the ones that will be answered at this end of the legislature. from the Left Block everyone knows: we are here until the last day, until the last moment, for the best possible solution, to improve, in concrete, the lives of people. We'll never do the opposite of what we said we would. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u77	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is very simple: it will keep in force the law of bases which the right passed in 1990 who, in a comprehensive final vote, the law of bases which will be voted on in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u78	Exactly! That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u79	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u80	There is one thing I am sure: the government has submitted a proposal for a basic law which repeals the 1990 Basic Law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u81	The Left Block too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u82	... and I hope that all parties that have made it possible for the current political solution will continue to contribute to the adoption of a basic health law which repeals the 1990s. It is not worth wishing to empty the proposal on a single basis, it is not worth pretending that this basic law says what the Basic Law of 1990 said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u83	That's what you guys are doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u84	... because the one in 1990 didn't even talk about PPP, which at that date had not even been invented. What you do not want to vote for is a wording which reads as follows:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u85	Now let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u86	... « The management of the establishments of the National Health Service is public, and may, exceptionally, be supplementary and temporary, be subject to public law contracts». This is what you don't want to vote for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u87	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u88	And it is because you do not want to vote on this rule, which clearly states the public nature of the management of the National Health Service, that the honourable Member wants to put it at risk to keep it in force where not only does this not say as the contrary says, that it is the function of the State to promote the private and promote competition between the private and the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u89	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u90	That is what the honourable Member is preparing to do and, if the law of basechumbar, responsibility is exclusively for her and her parliamentary group. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u91	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u92	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has brought us, and indeed, the issue of the environment and climate change and to talk about climate change in Portugal, means to speak in a particularly demanding way as regards its adaptation, because we know that our country is one of the most exposed, at the global and European level, of course, to climate change. Yesterday, the Day of Combating Dryness and Desertification was marked and the two themes are deeply linked. Where there is drought the territory deteriorates and people leave, looking for other spaces. However, contrary to desertification involves many articulated public policies, of course, and particularly two focus: first, it is necessary to take care of the territory, find ways to retain and supply water, so that it is not voted for abandonment, as it is necessary to value the people who remain in that territory, who take care of it, or who want to come back and settle down to it. in the first case, we are talking about supporting agriculture, supporting forest, paying ecosystem services. In fact, I have taken good note of what you have said and now I ask you whether or not the government is available for a part of the carbon rate to finance the forest as a great amount of carbon dioxide that it is. It also involves supporting agriculture and I ask you whether or not you are available to increase national co-financing to the maximum permitted by the Community regulations in the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) and in the following funds, but it also implies ensuring a policy of investments in water, which goes from dams to dams, finally, a policy designed for this area, and also to the study of desalination. What does the government have to say about this? in the second case, it implies looking at the people who fix themselves and take care of the territory and those who can go to the territory. We understand that we need to be disruptive in tax matters. in the CDS, we defend — we already defend it here and we will continue to defend — that those who live within the country must pay half the rate of IRS, must have a discount on the tolls and other transport costs, as companies must pay only 10 % of IRC and have increases in all investment support. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether or not you are available to negotiate in Brussels the creation of a true tax benefit status for the interior. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u94	Mr President, Mrs Assunção Cristas, so far, we have adopted a set of measures for the exception and attractiveness of investment to low-density areas, which is, in fact, the essential way of creating jobs and thus attracting and fixing the population. Thus, as part of the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, of the new EUR 5000 million in support of entrepreneurship, EUR 1700 million was reserved for low-density territories. In the first tender which was launched under this scheme, 43 % of the investment support was precisely for the low-density territories, which shows that this is the right way we are going. It will also have noticed that in the last two budgets of the State we have introduced a set of positive discrimination measures within IRC for reinvestment, precisely in the interior areas. On the issue of drought, we have sought to adopt substantive measures and therefore approved a National Regadium Programme, we have negotiated with the European Investment Bank the creation of a line of own funding to allow not only the area of Alqueva, by more than 50 000 hectares, but also to extend to the rest of the country, with the creation of more than 40 000 hectares of irrigation area. And we were also concerned about limiting the expansion zone of the eucalyptus, which, as you know, has a quite desertification effect and the legislation that previously liberalized its planting had a particularly negative effect. Fortunately, this legislation is repealed today, its planting is controlled and access to water and the promotion of irrigation is facilitated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u95	Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that you began your mandate to talk about the expansion of Alqueva in 50 000 hectares, ends up talking about the expansion of Alqueva in 50 000 hectares and did not make a single hectare of irrigation. That's why I'm worried, because I hear about plans and projects but I don't see anything, actually, concrete. Mr. Prime Minister, what little you did about the irrigation was planned from behind and I still don't see the plans from here forward! But I would like to tell you that it is not only the question of efficient recreation that concerns us, but also, for example, the question of water supply to populations, it is the multi-purpose ventures. last year, Mr. Prime Minister, in Portugal, Viseu ran out of water and had to be supplied by tank trucks; at the same time, Cape Town, in South Africa, had a completely dry situation. This is what I am talking about, a serious planning to think about the various dimensions, assuming that the climate has changed and that, as far as we should and can do, we already have these consequences today and, therefore, we have to adapt to this climate, in particular by looking at topics such as dams, docks, multiple-purpose ventures, irrigation, and also desalination. That's what I'd like to see action, more action—and on the side of the CDS will certainly have that impulse. On the other hand, with regard to tax questions, I take good note that it is the answer that has always given in the discussions of the State budgets, but which is short for the needs. So we in the CDS will continue to beat ourselves for a true tax benefit status for the interior, with half the IRS rate, 10% in IRC, discount on tolls and other types of transport, increases for investments, among other things, because we think that the way will certainly be there. But, Prime Minister, moving on to another topic, because time is decreasing, I must say that we have been watching for quite a short time now — in fact, I have had the opportunity to signal here — to a clear violation of the constitutional principle of proportionality in the work of the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ). The principle of proportionality is laid down in the Constitution, it is provided for in the law, but the CDS believes that it must be densified in the law itself, to ensure that there will be no situations like those we have unfortunately had the opportunity to watch. Mr Prime Minister, we have a number of proposals in this area. My question is whether it agrees with the need to strengthen and lay down the guarantees of taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u97	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u98	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I admit that there was a lot of planning, but the fact is that there were no resources to do whatever it was. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u99	That is why we needed to establish a negotiation with the European Investment Bank ( EIB ) and to overcome the European Investment Bank's resistance to the financing of irrigation mechanisms because there were very specific environmental doubts in northern Europe about the importance of irrigation. Fortunately, it was possible to raise awareness and convince the EIB and sign a contract with the EIB which will allow 90 000 new hectares of irrigation area to be financed. Regarding Alqueva, there are several blocks that are already open and in operation, since we started our duties. But I draw your attention that, 15 days ago, in meeting with the camera presidents of the Portalegre district, we reached agreement to move forward with a project that, decades ago, was discussed — 63 years ago that was discussed — for which it was finally found a model of sustainability, which was to allow the construction of the Fridão dam, in order to ensure... I am sorry, I meant the Pisão dam, but it was for sympathy with Mr Fernando Negro who made this confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u100	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u101	He ran away from her mouth to the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u102	As I said, it was possible to move forward with the Pisão dam, which will allow, in relation to the north of Alentejo, to have a similar impact as Alqueva had in Lower Alentejo. And it's with these measures that we can make the transformation. As for the disproportionate actions of the Tax and Customs Authority, we fully agree, either with regard to casuistic actions such as this, which had the due response, and on the very day, by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, or from a legislative point of view. That is why one of our priorities in this Parliament was to put an end to this disproportionate measure for taxpayers who were the worst house in the household for tax debts. It was unfortunate that Mrs Deputy, while having the furrow of the house, had not had the affection to ensure that these families were not also victims of the disproportionate performance of the tax, which, in order to charge a tax debt, would withdraw their own household. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u103	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u104	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note that for the fourth time it announces the construction of the Pisão dam. Here we are to see if she'll be...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u105	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u106	Yeah, yeah! It's the fourth time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u107	It is indeed the fourth time that the government announces the construction of the Pission dam. And it has also been announcing, for four years, systematically, more 50 000 ha watered by Alqueva. Look, in four years I was able to make 70,000 ha in Alqueva — I did not, the government I was part of — and it was done, it was not announced! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u108	This government didn't make a charca!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u109	But, Prime Minister, I hope that it will also be possible to build the Alvito dam, which is another very much needed dam not only for agriculture but also for multiple purposes. With regard to the taxpayers' assurances, Prime Minister, I hope that the various proposals that the CDS will come forward in this House will then have the genuine and enthusiastic favourable vote and support by the Socialist Party. Mr Prime Minister, let me finish with another question about something that concerns us and has to do with the data on the Portuguese economy. We keep looking at signs that are worrying. What is ahead of the most advanced and sophisticated indicator in OECD is that the Portuguese economy has a growth below the register in the European Union itself. It is our understanding that we urgently need to lower taxes. Mr. Prime Minister, we have a maximum tax burden, we need to lower taxes on people and businesses. We need to stimulate investment. By the way, I can even suggest specific areas in which this can and should happen. For example, the area of the environment and adaptation to climate change is one of them; the area of the blue economy is certainly another; and the area related to digital transition is still another. If we want to retain people, attract others and capture investment, we need to lower taxes, Prime Minister! My question is very simple: will you, or will you not, lower taxes? Whether or not it is committed to this objective, what is essential in the CDS vision, so that we can have an economy working?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u110	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u111	Now, Prime Minister, since you like to discuss with the Left Block the issues of the Health Bases Act, I would like to ask you if you have thought more about the proposal that the CDS presented here in the last 15-year debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u112	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u113	... to solve the specific problem of people who have been waiting for years for the first expert consultation and to be able to do in good time, if not in the SNS, in the private or social sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u114	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u115	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristos, as regards recreation, what we hired with the EIB was a loan of EUR 540 million, which fortunately had an excellent demand. There are 200 applications under review, which will allow more than 90 000 ha of irrigation in Portugal, part, in Alqueva, and 40 000 ha, in the rest of the country. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] And you're wrong, Mrs. Member, we haven't announced anything for the fourth time about the Pission dam. It is true that over these decades there have been many governments making this announcement. We only did it when we were sure that this investment was sustainable. And it is sustainable, precisely because what we can obtain, through the water, it is possible to obtain, at a price similar to what is practised by EDIA (the Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company ) in the Alqueva, through not the production of hydraulic energy, but the production of solar energy. This is how we can find the financial balance that allows us to say that this is a sustainable investment and can make a very important contribution to the High Alentejo. With regard to the future of the Portuguese economy, I believe, frankly, that we have good reasons to be confident in its trajectory. It was not only in 2017 and 2018 that we grew up again above the European average, as had not happened since we joined the euro; in 2019, we continued to grow above the European average, and still today I have seen, with satisfaction, that I assume that I also share a study by an international consultant in this case by Ernst & Young on the international attractiveness of different countries in relation to foreign direct investment, which signals Portugal as one of the countries which in the European Union continues to be more attractive to investment. And investment is the key to modernising the economy, creating jobs and creating more and better jobs and our economic growth. That's where we have to go and that's where we're going to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u116	It is now up to the CFP Parliamentary Group to put questions to Mr Prime Minister. To that end, Mr Jerome de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is the last 15-year debate of the legislature, we will not waste this opportunity so that new positive measures for workers and the people can emerge from this debate. Therefore, before entering the subject chosen for the debate, I would like to ask you about something that continues to mark the concerns of the Portuguese people. I am referring, in the specific case, to health. The CFP has stressed that, beyond the discussion of the Health Bases Act, there is a set of measures to strengthen the National Health Service (SNS) that must be taken and that are not dependent on that discussion. We maintain the view that it is indispensable and imperative to change the Health Bases Act and clarify, without ambiguities, the separation between the public sector and the private sector. It is necessary to include in the Health Bases Act the principle of public management of the SNS, in order not to weaken the public response, in order to defend users, the good use of public money and the SNS itself, rather than favor the large monopolistic groups operating in the health sector. But while this discussion is still being held, urgent measures must be taken to respond to the problems that arise. Recently, we again had reports of maternity leave closed due to lack of doctors, especially in Beja and Algarve. The problem is not new and the State budget provides for a response by strengthening the number of vacancies for the establishment of doctors in areas lacking. What is lacking for the government to solve this problem, implementing what is envisaged in the State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u119	And we ask the same regarding the guarantee of a family doctor to all users, to the investment plan in hospitals, to the extension of the National Vaccination Programme, to the strengthening of INEM professionals, to the creation of the Community Mental Health Teams ( ESMC ) or to the hiring of health professionals to end the subcontracting of companies. All these measures are provided for in the State budget approved herein. We ask, Prime Minister : when will the government implement them? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u120	We often use the following expression: « Advance is necessary! Step back not». Don't come up with any argument that opposes you, because you're going back again, no, we don't agree. I believe that it is possible to move forward in this area, taking into account the State Budget Act itself which is in force. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u122	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, I agree 100% with you. First, regarding the Health Bases Act, it is fundamental to alter it and clearly affirm the separation between the public sector and the private sector. And this is done by repealing the law that says it is the function of the State to promote the private sector as a competitor of the public. This is how we also move forward, improving accessibility and restricting the collection of moderate rates. This is how we also do, creating better conditions for exclusivity in the National Health Service. And this is how we also move forward, clearly affirming the principle of public management in all institutions of the National Health Service. We agree on that. But we also agree on something else. More than changing the Basics Law, it is necessary to change the basis of everyday life of people and the functioning of the National Health Service. That is why, since the first day of the legislature, we have been working to recover the 1300 million euros that had been cut in the previous legislature and that we have managed to recover. This, for today, has more than 11 000 professionals in the National Health Service than we had at the beginning of this legislation. To implement Article 45. the law of the State Budget and the decree-law of budgetary execution, a recently published order will allow to strengthen the number of doctors specialists, the number of nurses, the number of superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, in order to reduce the external hiring. I can also tell you that, with the conclusion of the 400 vacancies for general and family medical doctors, if all candidates accept the positions in which they are left, we will be able to reach not 100 % but a number of 98 % Portuguese with a family doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means the greatest reduction of always Portuguese without a family doctor. It is in this sense that we must continue to work, because we are also aware that it is not enough to open vacancies; it is necessary for vacancies to be attractive enough to have enough candidates and they can be completely filled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u123	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u124	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you understand this as indeed a fundamental concern: there is money in the Budget to respond to the problems I mentioned here and the difficulty is in its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u126	Yeah, yeah! The budget is good, the government is bad! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u127	There are money to solve the problems of the users, of the people who are currently suffering from the difficulties of the National Health Service. Take this as a deep feeling of those who know reality, because, of course, the National Health Service defends itself, firstly, by responding to Portuguese, people and patients. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the issue of the environment and the planning of the territory is appropriate. in terms of environmental concerns, we insist on measures to implement and extend the reduction of transport transit costs. This is indeed the largest environmental impact measure taken in recent decades and must go as far as possible in its implementation and enlargement. This measure must be a reality throughout the national territory and the various solutions for price reduction and extension of supply must be implemented. Investment in rolling stock, rail infrastructure, ships and also in the hiring of workers in need in public transport undertakings is needed. We ask you: what is the point of the situation in this matter? As regards the planning of the territory, we want to leave here our concern about a central problem, that of the people who need to occupy and order the territory. Now that two years have passed from the fires of Pedrogon, it is crucial that the question of what has changed in this rural world, which has burned, above all, because it is abandoned and depopulated. What measures have been taken, what investment has been made by the government so that the villages and villages of our rural world will not remain uninhabited, so that the territories will not continue to abandon? Without people, without economic activity, without investment and without public services, there is no rural world that resists and there is no order of the territory worthy of that name.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u129	Finally, Mr Prime Minister, we would like to ask you about the Government's decision to purchase the SIRESP network ( Portugal's Integrated Emergency and Security Network System ) for EUR 7 million. The PCP defends the public control of SIRESP and the end of the public-private partnership ( PPP), but we have many doubts that this business that the government has found defends the public interest. The CFP has always argued that the emergency communications network should never be subjected to profit logic and delivered to economic groups. The security of Portuguese cannot be a business, it must be a responsibility assumed by the State and by which the State responds. The price that the country paid for this PPP is in view of the dramatic consequences of the failures of SIRESP in the 2017 fires, but it is also in view of the EUR 487 million paid by the State for a network that costs 85 million to mount. How does the government justify now buying the part of the economic groups in this PPP by giving them more EUR 7 million, after all they have already gained with a network that has left obsolete? Oh, my God! What responsibilities for the failures of SIRESP in the 2017 fire has the government asked economic groups to benefit from the bad business that was this PPP? Oh, my God! Who will assume the investment that is needed to make the emergency communications network work in conditions? These were the issues and concerns we wanted to leave him. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u130	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u131	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we share exactly the same health concerns, not only with regard to strengthening resources but also with regard to the results achieved. That is why we see with satisfaction that today we have more than 190 000 consultations in primary care, plus 140 000 consultations in hospital units and more surgeries than we had before, that is, we are able to recover the lost time. At the beginning of this year, we had some 100 000 consultations behind schedule. So far a significant part has been recovered and the goal we have is the total recovery by the end of the year. But, as you know, and in the transport sector this is particularly evident, the recovery of the degree of destruction suffered in many of these systems is a slow process. For at least two years, he asked me regularly about the hiring of new ships for Transtex and Soflusa and one day I could finally tell him « the competition is open ». [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We have all participated in the launch of the competition, but it has its time, it has its processing and we will not have the ships before the contractual deadline for the demonstration. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] in the same way, we are acquiring more buses, more compositions for the meters, more compositions for the CP. If all this had been done before, of course we would be in another situation today. But, as he says, well, the way is not to walk back, the way is to walk forward. In terms of human resources, 19 % of these resources have been lost in the four years preceding this legislation only in the transport sector. We have already recovered 4 % of human resources and there are a number of open competitions, but unfortunately, until they are completed, we will not be able to count on these human resources. So it is true that we are running after injury. Yes, we are running after the damage, but we must be aware that we can no longer run the risk of being harmed again, because then we will not only be running after the damage but, first, digging even further the damage. That's what we can't do. For SIRESP, what the State did was to acquire about 70 %, or 67 %, which was missing from the company for the value of the net assets on 31 December last year. This value already incorporates all the investment made by SIRESP since 2017, in particular all the investment that was necessary to ensure the levels of redundancy both of electricity and of the communication systems that the 2017 fires had made patent absolutely essential. It is that a communication network based exclusively on physical elements is, of course, subject to the same elements being destroyed by fire. What happened in these fires was that the cables, which, in fact, were suspended, were consumed by fire and the communication system ceased to work. The antennas themselves are obviously not free from being destroyed — nothing is! — but a mechanism based on a set of satellite antennas obviously increases the degree of redundancy and reliability of the network. This investment has been made and that is what justifies, in fact, the value of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u132	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u133	Mr. President, I'll be done. I believe that, in this way, we have completed a process, responsible the State, entirely and exclusively, for the management of this emergency network. A network that is not obsolete but, yes, functional, which is now strengthened in its redundancy capabilities and, therefore, as happened in 2018 — the year in which it worked without any incident — we are in a position to ensure that it can work without any incidents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u134	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u135	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in order to take seriously the issue of climate change mitigation and adaptation to climate change there are some abuses and errors in the country from which we have to definitely get rid. One of them is to act with a short-term vision, the other is to stop acting with an economical view of things. Mr Prime Minister, I will give you an example that will understand very well and that has to do with our forest, which is fundamental to the adaptation of the territory. What happens is that the country has been 'eucaliptizing'. And with what argument? With the argument that it generated a lot of jobs, that it created an enormous economic dynamics in the forest, which was very good. Therefore, there were only advantages and monocultures and eucalyptus monocultures were expanded. What has happened, Mr Prime Minister, is what we all know today: a barrier has been created for this country, with regard to forest fires, rightly calling into question the security of the people and the territory. We know the brutal error of the PSD/CDS government when it approved the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, encouraging more eucalyptus in our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u136	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u137	Now, in this legislature, what did we have to do? We didn't have to wait for the unfortunate tragedy of 2017! Right at the beginning of the Legislature, The Greens created a condition for signing the joint position with the PS, which was precisely to stagnate, decrease, the area of eucalyptus monocultures in Portugal and bet on native species to generate greater resistance in our forest. But I gave you this example why, Prime Minister? Because, now, you may also understand what the Greens have warned you about. Several studies have already pointed to the desertification of the soils of our territory, resulting from the phenomenon of climate change, and what is being done, at the moment, at this great risk, is to expand monocultures and monocultures, intensive and superintensive, especially olive. This government has a great responsibility in this area, but what is its big argument? It is what creates a lot of jobs and a very large economic dynamisation in the interior. Be careful, Prime Minister! We have to see if, a few years from now, we don't all walk in the head saying that we have saturated soils, that we have spent too much water and that, due to the intensive use of pesticides, we have contaminated soils and water. The alert is being made in good time, but the government is not connecting to this alert. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, there is one question I would like to ask you. While we are working to stagnate the monocultures of eucalyptus, so that this option is not made in productive terms, but if it bets, before, in the forest and in the native species, the truth is that they are taking off, naturally and intensively, eucalyptus by the burned areas outside, around the villages that have already suffered the scourge of forest fires. The question is: if the Government is observing this reality of abandoned forest areas, what are you doing? Careful with the short-term vision, because we are creating a new trail and new conditions for the fires to return in a few years, with great intensity and in the same areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u138	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u139	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I want to end with one last issue that has to do with the exploitation of lithium. The Government said there would be no exploitation of lithium in classified areas, but it happens that, in Montalegre, classified by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) as an agricultural heritage of humanity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u140	Madam Member, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u141	... there is a contract signed for exploration and exploitation, without even environmental impact assessment. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] These contradictions, Mr. Prime Minister, cannot be understood. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u142	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u143	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, was not only in the joint positions that we signed the repeal of the liberalisation of the "Cristan law" in the area of "eucaliptisation" of the country, as it was also agreed that we would set a maximum framework which would prevent the enlargement of the Eucalyptus areas. This amendment came into force and prevented the growth of the eucalyptus. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u144	It is very important that this is so because, if it is true that it has an important economic relevance, especially for owners, many of them small and medium-sized owners, being an important income for the local economy, it is also true that they have to have proper framework and proper discipline. The same is true of the olive tree. First of all, it must be borne in mind that, out of the 3 million hectares that make up the Alentejo region, the olive occupies only 170 000 ha... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] ... and, of these, only 50 000 ha, i.e. 1, 5 % of the total area, are subject to intensive planting or sebe. In any event, although studies by the Ministry of Agriculture have concluded that the intensive olive culture does not promote more environmental pressures than other crops with decisive expression in the Alentejo, the Minister of Agriculture ordered the National Institute of Agricultural and Veterinary Research to carry out a more in-depth study that allows the comparative assessment of the various types of olive exploitation. This study is commissioned. Let's see what your result is. Mrs Deputy, you have a lot of reason for the abandoned areas. Although the Government has already approved all regional forestry planning plans and, at the moment, municipalities are working in their transposition into their respective municipal directors plans, the truth is that nature does not follow the institutional rhythm and therefore grows itself. Even yesterday, I could see, with my own eyes, as in the burning area the eucalyptus spontaneously reborn, recreating the same situation experienced before. However, for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, we have to understand ourselves in this House of the Republic. It is either we want to intervene or we want to pretend that we intervened, because 90% of the forest in Portugal is private. It is an exception for Europe as a whole, but 90 % is private and we must have standards. First of all...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u145	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. once and for all, we have to have rules to know the property... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] ... and, Madam Member, so that it will not be long before it is essential that the Assembly of the Republic approve the extension to the entire national territory of the experience of the simplified registration, which has already been tested in seven councils, with great success,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...and that it will allow in four years to do what the country expects it to do from Maria da Fonte. The country cannot continue to stop,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u147	Mr Prime Minister, I ask you again to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u148	... you must, once and for all, register to have the owners identified, to force them to do what they have to do or to, when they do not have the conditions, the State can do so in their place. Madam Member, until we have the law of registration, it is not possible to move forward any further than we have already done. Therefore, Mrs. Member, I ask you a favour:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u149	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u150	...voting the law of registration so we can know who owns and we can move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u151	It is the time of Mr. André Silva, of the NAP. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u152	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. The NAP congratulates the Government on the dignity of environmental policies by bringing them to the fortnightly debate. We are concerned, however, at the insistent bipolarity with which the Government seeks to reconcile the commitment to decarbonise the economy with harmful practices for the environment. Let us see: are lines of action of the P-3AC — the National Action Programme for Climate Change Adaptation — the implementation of good water management practices in agriculture, the implementation of conservation and soil fertility improvement techniques and the increase of resilience of ecosystems, species and habitats to the effects of climate change. However, they proliferate practices of superintensive production in agriculture and livestock, practices that, according to scientists, in a scenario of increasing temperatures, extreme climate events and water scarcity—as, in fact, those who have come to land more frequently— accelerate degradation and even desertification of soils and call into question the resilience of ecosystems. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the measures adopted by the Government on adaptation to climate change effectively aim to make the territory more resilient or, on the contrary, merely to balance the scales, i.e. to pollute a little less in one sector to continue to pollute in others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u154	Mr President, Mr André Silva, either on the roadmap for decarbonisation or on the national climate change adaptation plan, what the Government is looking for — and I have also tried to translate it into my speech — is that there is a cross-cutting effort of society as a whole: of families, of each of us individually and of the economy. I say 'of the economy' in all its sectors: in services, in industry, in construction, in agriculture, in energy production, in energy use, in water use... In all sectors, we have to be able to compete in an integrated way to achieve this result. It is a result of a huge ambition that even requires everyone's commitment. It's not enough to decarbonize here to carbonize there. So, clearly answering your question, I will say no, we do not try to clean up the coastal carbonization to transfer it to the interior. We're looking for the country to be globally decarbonized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u155	Mr. André Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u156	Mr. Prime Minister, the prevention of rural fires is the first line of action identified in the P-3AC. However, eucalyptuses and acacias continue to be born uncontrolledly in the burned areas. We ask you why, after several resolutions have been adopted in Parliament in order to combat the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus and invasive species, there is still no action on the ground, and there is about 1 million new eucalyptus per hectare, and the territory is worse than it was two years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u157	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be rude, but to adopt a resolution is easy. however, how will we achieve it? How do we notify a owner, who we don't know who he is, that he can't let a new eucalyptus plant or let a new acacia grow? For a long time, with regard to urban soil, the separation between the right of ownership and the right to build on that property is clearly made. I may have a land, but the municipal director plan can only allow me to build a house, or a 12-storey building, or can simply say that it is an area of assignment to a green space. This is the same as what has to happen with regard to rural soil. That is why the regional forestry planning plans set out the rules for land use and which have to be transposed into the municipal management plan. But this will only be effective when we finally know who the owners are. Mr President, that is why we launched a pilot project, approved by this Assembly of the Republic, in 12 councils, throughout the country, among which the seven municipalities most affected by the fires of two years ago. The pilot project was developed and all camera presidents applaud this pilot project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u159	I ask you to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u160	The results are in sight and demonstrate that, contrary to what many people believe, there is no need for eternity to make the registration, there is no need for a fortune to make the registration...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u161	Come on! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u162	...and that the registration is possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u163	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u164	There is, in the Assembly of the Republic, a proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u165	It's not the PAN that's going to reject it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u166	I am not saying that you are guilty, but unfortunately you are not an absolute majority of this House of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u167	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u168	Unfortunately, there are several other Members who contribute to the existence of a majority or a minority. What is absolutely essential is that the honourable Member, such as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, Mrs Apolónia. Members of the Socialist Party, all of you. Members who are already convinced of the goodness of this measure, and also the Members. Members of the Left Block, who are equally convinced of the goodness of this measure, strive to have a majority in this House to effectively make the law that is necessary to implement the reform of the forest. I'm glad we have your support, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u169	I call on the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u170	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr. Prime Minister and all the ministers and congratulate Mr. Prime Minister on bringing the debate on environmental policies, which are so important to our country. Today, we are experiencing a serious environmental crisis with climate change, which is a reality in the present with devastating consequences in the future. So there are not many more opportunities left to reverse this situation. Its consequences are well-identified today. Dry cycles, heat and cold waves, floods and storms are increasingly short and severe. Water, which is an essential natural resource, is increasingly scarce. The amount of resupplied water is lower than used, the watercourses are drying up and the supply of water for human consumption is being compromised. It is therefore necessary to take steps to re-use, something the Government is already doing, and well, with the use of water from ETAR (residual water treatment station) and, above all, find efficient water use mechanisms and guarantee strategic water reserves for our country. The desertification and erosion of territories is galloping, causing the impoverishment of their communities, and will trigger, we are sure, the next global wave of migration, creating more inequalities in society and, above all, more inequalities between countries. It is not enough to hold world conferences, to approve documents or to subscribe to resolutions. More needs to be done, more ambition is needed to mobilize all political decision makers and citizens for this reality. from the climate point of view, temperatures should not and could no longer increase thermometers and could not rise more than 1, 5o, according to the Paris Agreement, but the clock pointers could no longer move forward with inactive political decision makers. unlike the environmental problems of 1. the generation, which shows immediate results in combating climate change, the positive effects will only feel in the long term, so it is urgent to act. We know that no country alone can solve the phenomenon of climate change alone. This must be a persistent and continuing struggle of all, globally, and of each of us individually. Portugal and the Government have been at the forefront in combating climate change. It has, with great ambition, set the goals to be achieved in Portugal, implemented and is implementing the measures to implement them and has always put climate change on the European political agenda as a central theme. Portugal also reduced emissions by 9 % when the European average dropped by 3 %, while we grew above the European average, which shows that the reduction of emissions is not incompatible with economic growth. Do we need to continue and accelerate this path? It is! And that is what the government is doing: to build a strategy that leads us to carbon neutrality in 2050, with the decarbonisation of the economy ; to plan the end of electricity from fossil fuels, betting on the production of energy from renewable sources; to support electric mobility; to implement greater energy efficiency; to realize the circular economy; to undertake the reorganization of the forest and the planning of the territory; to value the interior and its resources; to bet on the use of public transport, taking measures such as the new tariff with the cheapest passes, a measure of great social scope, but also a decisive contribution to combating climate change. This is the way of the future, the way we want to continue to travel, so as to ensure the sustainability of the planet and increase the quality of life of the Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you as a perspective for Portugal, for Europe and even for the world the deepening of the fight against climate change, in particular the requirement that we will have in the next decade in this fight. What is the importance of carbon neutrality, and what is the government's work in this area? I would also like to hear Mr Prime Minister on the subject of the auction of photovoltaics, with an impact on combating climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u171	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u172	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, Portugal has already been at the forefront of the transformation of the energy paradigm: it has been at the forefront of renewable energy, it has been at the forefront of electric mobility. Unfortunately, political diabolism has led to the interruption of a path that would have allowed Portugal to go further today with the change of government. But, fortunately, we have come to recover, we have to recover lost time and technological evolution helps us to do so. Today, fortunately, it is already possible to resort to the intensive use of solar energy without subsidisation and we have managed to license new solar energy projects without any kind of subsidisation. However, we must act in an integrated way and with this awareness we have designed an environment ministry since the beginning of the government with an extended competence to be able to intervene in areas which are fundamental to ensure the decarbonisation of the country. We started by transport, we now extended to energy and believe that, in this dimension, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Transition gives adequate institutional coherence to the ambition of a country, which was the first to assume, in Marrakesh, the objective of achieving carbonic neutrality in 2050 and that it has therefore worked for this to be also the first country to approve a roadmap for decarbonization in 2050. We must be the first and we must be quick, because unfortunately today we know that the goals set in the Paris Agreement are more difficult to achieve because some of the key partners, such as the United States, if they wanted to withdraw from it but we also know that those goals are already insufficient to achieve the objective that was planned there. That is why, when the objective of the Paris Agreement was to control between 1, 5oC and 2oC the increase in temperature, we know that today there is no alternative between 1, 5oC and 2oC; the only solution is even to set a goal of 1, 5oC, under the penalty of being absolutely irreversible the trajectory at world level. And we know this based on scientific evidence, because the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change told us, however, that the evolution that the world had demands a greater ambition in achieving this result. That is why, on this Route for Carbon Neutrality at the age of 30, we assumed the option of being more ambitious right now in the first decade. Why? Because the sooner we move forward, the less negative cumulative effects we will go. So in this roadmap we have the goal of reducing emissions in transport by 40% in this first decade, so in this first decade we are proposing to double electricity production from renewable energy. It is this effort, which we have to make in mind, that will enable us to have greater confidence that the final result will be achieved. For this we must work, from now on, following this roadmap, which we approved, we were the first to approve, and I hope that we will also be the first to be able to comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u173	Mr João Marques also spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the appreciation of the territory is one of the fundamental pillars for the development of the country. The balance between the coast and the interior is urgent. The territory needs a development model that responds to structural problems, that values natural capital and that promotes territorial cohesion. In this process of valuing the territory, the implementation of an agenda that combats desertification in the interior of the country, which promotes employment and access to public services, such as education and health, creates incentives for the establishment of young people and families in these regions. We will only have a more economically and socially more competitive territory externally, more resilient to climate change, when we have a more balanced territory, a more valued territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been done by this government, either in the definition or in the implementation of concrete measures to combat asymmetries between the coast and the interior, but much still needs to be done. Last week's approval of the National Plan of Territorial Planning Policy, PNPOT, was another fundamental step in this path of appreciation of the territory and appreciation of the interior. PNPOT is an important strategic instrument for territorial management that defines development options and establishes the national organization model, which breaks with the current logic of coastline / interior, which assumes territorial diversity as a fundamental asset. in its action programme, the PNPOT establishes 10 commitments that translate the political bet for the enhancement of the territory and for the strengthening of integrated territorial base approaches. With the approval of PNPOT, Portugal has come to have a strategic framework for territorial development, for the programming of Community funds and for the definition of large public investments. The PNOT commits itself to a country more environmentally valued, which respects the Paris Agreement and which assumes the goal of carbon neutrality. When we talk in the environment and when we talk about climate change, we speak in territorial management, so I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, the following: How is PNPOT an important tool for valuing the territory, capable of enabling the country to achieve greater territorial cohesion, i.e. to combat asymmetries between the coast and the interior? How does this PNPOT reflect the problem of climate change and the necessary adaptations of the territory? I would also like to leave a note on the Health Bases Act. Mr. Prime Minister, the PS has argued that it is the responsibility of the State to provide health care in cooperation with the private sector and with the social sector and not in competition, as the current law provides. The same orientation is what we defend in relation to the management of health units. This is a responsibility of the State which must exercise it directly, but, exceptionally, it can do so by contract with private entities or the social sector. The question is not whether or not the next government will make PPPs (public-private partnership), but whether or not a basic law may prohibit them. We understand you don't! Mr. Prime Minister, do you or do you not agree that this should be a solution to a sustainable law of bases? Do you or do you not agree that, in the future, whatever prohibition the basic law contains, a parliamentary majority can, with the greatest ease, change the basic law and conclude new PPP contracts? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u175	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u176	Mr President, honourable Member, a good national policy for spatial planning is the key to good management of our territory, to the exploitation of its resources and also to good management of the capacity we have to ensure carbon neutrality. We will only have a circular economy if we have an economy that is able to generate income in the place where resources exist and in the bet of its valorization. It is therefore very important that this PNPOT has been approved in this Assembly of the Republic, which can inform the national infrastructure programme, which should be a tool for the implementation of the National Territorial Planning Programme, and which can also inform a set of other public policies, from the outset in the field of public services and investment in Research & Development. One of the most important steps that have been taken in this legislature and perhaps less known was that, in the strategy of the creation of collaborative laboratories, there has been a very clear commitment by the Minister of Science to give priority to the location of those who work in valuing endogenous resources in low-density territories. It was like this with mountain culture, based in Bragança, it is like that with precision culture, based in Mininho, it is like that with the forest. This is important for valuing the endogenous resources of these regions. Only by doing so will we be able to reconcile, in a positive way, the ambition, which we have to have, to develop the country, to promote greater income for the populations, and at the same time the duty, which we have to have, to preserve the resources for future generations. This is the work we have to do, in an integrated way, in the management of the territory. Mr, I would like to comment on what you said about the Health Bases Act. The country has lived since 1990 with a Health Bases Act that was created to provoke an entorse in the National Health Service, which was created after the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the attempt to revoke the National Health Service. at that time, the PSD and the CDS, faced with the constitutional impossibility of revoking the law of the National Health Service, created a law of bases to seek to empty, contrary to the constitutional text. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is very clear: the State has the responsibility to ensure health for the Portuguese through the creation of a national health service. What the basic law has said is that it also affects the State to promote a private sector that works in competition with the National Health Service. The essential question that is under discussion in this basic law, which the Assembly of the Republic may or may not approve, is whether we have maintained this misconception that has been coming since 1990 or whether we clearly state responsibility is to promote and defend a national public health service, universally and tends to be free of charge. This does not mean to end private medicine or the role of the social sector, which must have a complementary or even supplementary nature. In fact, there is a rule, already voted on, I believe that proposed by the CFP, which is the basis of Thursday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u177	Base five!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u178	or base five, where it is left very clear, in fact, what is the public responsibility and what is the role of the social sector and the private sector. In my view, we cannot miss this opportunity to have as broad a political consensus as possible, to restore the Health Bases Act in line with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and with the National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free of charge. We must do so with the awareness of the following: a basic law has a reinforced value only if it has a strengthened political basis, because otherwise a basic law is a law equal to the other laws and any new majority will revoke what we adopt in this majority. Now, we do not want a basic law for campaigning elections, nor do we want a basic law for washing our conscience today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want a basic law that is durable in its principles! Therefore, as regards the political option of this government, we do not need a basic law to make any new PPP, because it is contained in the Government Programme, of this government, that there will be no new PPP ; we do not need any new basic law to renew no PPP, when the evaluation is negative ; we do not need any new basic law to not renew a PPP, even when the evaluation is positive but the dealer intends to change the contract. We've done it, and we've proven it. That which is an added value of this basic law is not for this government, it is for any other government to follow. For this to happen, it is necessary that this basic law not only has a broad enough political consensus to last with this majority and beyond this majority, but also gives definitive sustainability to our National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u179	Mr. Prime Minister, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u180	Just one last sentence, Mr. President. To begin by making this basic law an instrument of institutional combat with the President of the Republic or of creating artificial divisions in the Assembly of the Republic is simply to make beautiful today, condemning the law of basis to its right death on the first day when the parliamentary majority is different from what is today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda. Before we move on to the second point, Mrs Emília Santos will take account of legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u182	Mr. President and Mr. Members, they entered, and were admitted, the Bills No. 1231 / XIII / 4. a — Proceeds to 11. the amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November, which exempts chronic patients from the payment of moderate rates in primary health care and from the reference from such care ( PCP ), 1227 / XIII / 4. a — Reversion of privatisation of CTT ( CCP ) and 1232 / XIII / 4. a — Determines the amendment of the Legal Regime of Judicial Costs in order to ensure greater access to the courts by workers, precarious workers and the generality of citizens( 14 ). the amendment to the Rules of Procedure ) ( BE ). They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 2201 / XIII / 4. a — by the creation of a National Forage Plan ( PCP ), 2202 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends to the Government the development of an intensive and superintensive agricultural production system ( CFP ), 2203 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends to the Government the requalification of EN105 within the city of Alfena ( BE ), 2204 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends that the Government initiate retraining works and construct a sports pavilion at the Francisco Simões Basic and Secondary School ( BE ), 2205 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends to the Government the sustainability of the project « Orchestra Generation » ( BE), 2206 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends that the Government value the experience gained and the evaluation of PEPAC and PEPAL trainees in the context of open competitive procedures in public administration and local administration ( BE), 2207 / XIII / 4. a — Information campaign on the qualities of milk and its health benefits ( PS ) and 2208 / XIII / 4. a — Development of a system of data collection relating to the prices and market of the food chain ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u183	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the second item on our agenda, which consists of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May—the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, and together with the debate on the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union integrating the European Semester, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( d ). the one of the same Law. You have the floor, first of all, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this European Council will have three fundamental dimensions: one on the appointment by the Council of candidates for Presidents of the Commission, the European Council and high representatives of the European Union for external relations and security ; and two points of greatest importance, which are the approval of the European Union's Strategic Agenda 2019-2024 and the establishment of the budgetary mechanism for convergence and competitiveness. In short, on the Strategic Agenda, which is known to the honourable Members. Members, the positions of Portugal were aimed at strengthening the idea that it is necessary to step up the protection of human rights, particularly in the context of migration, creating channels of legal migration and having a holistic view of migration policy, within the framework of our relations with neighbouring regions, and on the other hand the need to emphasize the priority of the implementation of the European pillar of social rights and also to refuse a view of competitiveness based on the idea of the creation of large European champions, but on the contrary in encouraging entrepreneurship and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. with regard to the climate change objective, Portugal, together with 11 other Member States, argues that the European Union must take a more ambitious objective in order to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, in order to contribute to the climate not to have an increase in temperature above 1, 5°. Finally, with regard to foreign policy, we advocate the absolute priority of a strategic partnership with Africa for the twenty-first century, the deepening of relations with the United Nations and also the creation of a network of free trade agreements within the framework of the World Trade Organisation which helps to globalise the values of the European Union and not to weaken it. A particularly important moment in this Council is that we can finally receive the Eurogroup's proposal on the creation of the euro area's budgetary capacity. It was something we defined, from the beginning of this legislature as a priority and, in December last year, finally unanimously, the Council assigned a mandate to the Eurogroup to develop, and at the last meeting of the Eurogroup it was possible to move forward with a basic proposal, still incomplete, to be discussed in this European Council. On the basis of this proposal, a mechanism is set up to support the implementation of reforms and investments that increase the productive potential of each country, in line with the European Semester, and in agreement with what Portugal has been defending over the years, to allow, on a contractual basis, to finance the countries for whom the divergence in terms of GDP per capita is still marked and which has to, in accordance with the specific recommendations of each country, carry out a set of investments that can increase their growth potential. We are well aware that this mechanism, as proposed, is certainly not the one we all want, but it is an excellent basis for work, starting from then on with a budget allocation provided by the Commission of EUR 17 billion provided for in the old reform support mechanism and which can be increased with the appropriations of each State in order to gain a new dimension. Our conviction is that we cannot leave this opportunity to move forward already with what there is consensus, without prejudice to continuing to work so that we can do what is needed to do: on the one hand, to increase the allocation of this instrument and, on the other hand, to diversify its functions. This budget responds to something that we have always defined as priority: financing convergence, since convergence is the great stabilisation mechanism, but we do not ignore, nor can we forget, that, as in 2008 and 2011, the lack of a stabilisation mechanism in situation and crisis is something that weakens the whole euro area and creates asymmetric imbalances in different countries. It is therefore necessary to continue to work to ensure that, in addition to this budgetary instrument for competitiveness and convergence, there are also mechanisms for stabilising in a crisis situation that the most consensual appears to be the creation of a European unemployment insurance mechanism. Finally, it is necessary to move forward and complete the last phase of the banking union, by definitely setting up a European deposit guarantee mechanism, the backstop for the financing of the resolution funds and also the new step towards the establishment of an emergency financing mechanism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in short, are the positions that Portugal will defend in the European Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate stage. First of all, Mrs Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government present in this debate Mr Prime Minister brings here the debate on the issue of the Strategic Agenda for the next institutional cycle and how important it is for Portugal to be on the front line in responding to these challenges, but the success of this Agenda depends heavily on the protagonists themselves and on the balance to which it is reached in the distribution of these protagonists at the top positions. That is why the first item on the agenda of this next European Council is precisely the appointment for the next institutional cycle. The PSD has already had the opportunity to say here in plenary that this cannot only be a chair war between the party families, it is necessary to leave the trenches, because what is at stake is effectively the stability and vision for the future of the European Union, and that should also prevail in the negotiations. I would therefore like to underline the word 'institutional' from this agenda item. That is because the Minister for Foreign Affairs said yesterday that "we are all institutional". However, I ask: where is this supposed institutionalism of your Government when, seconds before, the Minister said that his greatest wish was — and I quote — a change in the political and institutional landscape of the European Union, alluding to a supposed monochromatism of the PPE (European People's Party )? In fact, Mr Prime Minister also, soon after the European elections, had already tested this great desire that the most important thing here is to remove the EPP from certain positions. Mr Prime Minister, it is important to recall a few facts : in the previous high-ranking exercise in 2014 there was no PPE monopoly: President of the Commission and President of the European Council, but at the time the President of the European Parliament, the High Representative for Foreign Policy and the President of the Eurogroup were all European Socialists. There was therefore diversity in the process of choosing Spitzenkandidad and, at this time, with an even more fragmented European Parliament, this diversity should be deeper. Today is not time for party obsessions; it is time for dialogue between all European political forces. Shortly after the start of these negotiations, on 28 May, the PSD had the opportunity to list here, in this Chamber, what is the schedule for these appointments in the perspective of the national interest, recalling that the head of the Portuguese Government represents precisely these interests, despite the PS, often only raising the role of Mr. Prime Minister as negotiator on behalf of the socialist family. That is why we remember that we want top leaders to be champions of cohesion policy, who fight against regional asymmetries in Europe, who do not accept the cut of 7% for a country like Portugal, while Spain would gain 5 %, Italy 6 % and Finland 5 %. What is the negotiation of funds in which cohesion policy benefits richer and more developed countries and penalises Portugal? We want top leaders who understand the nature of the application of the funds of the common agricultural policy in Portugal and, within the framework of the European Union's foreign policy, we want a Union that does not waver in the defence of democracy at international level and that does not hesitate in ashes. Mr Prime Minister, we also want top leaders who are proactively contributing to the European response to climate change that strikes our planet, and — let us not forget — who know how to defend the interests of citizens at the conclusion of the Brexit process. Tempus ran away, Prime Minister. With regard to Brexit, Prime Minister, we today call for Portugal to contribute proactively to the positive and speedy resolution of the negotiations in this European Council, because any negotiating impasse beyond July in the field of the Union, can be extremely detrimental to the positioning of the 27 block in the context of the imminent change of Prime Minister in the United Kingdom. It would also be disastrous for the 400 000 Portuguese who live in the United Kingdom. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, it is institutionalist, and this should be the primary interest of the Portuguese Government. Mr Prime Minister, another subject which brings us to this debate today is precisely that of the Commission's recommendations for Portugal. In February the Commission concluded that 13 Member States, including Portugal, had economic imbalances. in fact, the Portuguese also see, in these recommendations, when they experience first-hand chaos in public transport, when they live directly the consequences of the degradation of the SNS (National Health Service), when parts of the territory are forgotten by the central state. It seems that only the Government does not recognize these recommendations. And I would like to remind you of Mr Foreign Minister's presence at his last hearing when he classified these recommendations as — and I quote — 'a true lady', because then every year it would be the same thing, adding that the Commissioner himself had already said to — and I quote again — 'disvaluing his own recommendations'. He said that it is necessary to look at national reform programmes and to translate them into Community financial instruments. in this we agree, but we can never exclude the responsibility of national governance for the finding of these recommendations. That is why Mr Prime Minister has an opportunity here to answer clearly on his own recommendations. That, yes, is also an institutionalist. Finally, asking a question on the question of the budgetary instrument for the convergence and competitiveness of the euro area,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u187	Ah! Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u188	... which is indeed a very far from the budget for the euro area, which is, in fact, an appendix to the next multiannual financial framework, and lacks the essential Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u189	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u190	Mr Prime Minister, the essential thing is missing, which is a macroeconomic stabilisation plan. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] That is why I ask you, Prime Minister: when can we expect a break-in of certain brakes from other governments of various types of party colors to create a real budget for the euro area?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u191	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u192	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I leave a first note on the draft recommendations for Portugal prepared by the Commission, within the framework of the European Semester, to simply observe that it does not close any surprise. As has been customary, the Commission's forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the government and, as usual, they are likely not to materialize. Also unsurprising are the emphasis on public policies, from the continuation of the fiscal consolidation effort favourable to growth, to the fight against corruption, through the reduction of inequalities and poverty and investment in education and training. These and other policies and objectives have been pursued by the government, in many cases by reverting previous policies or withdrawing them from the manner of paralysis in which they were with the previous government. Comments on them can only be understood, therefore, as an encouragement for the Government to continue on its way forward. I leave a second note to point out a positive step, on which Mr Prime Minister spoke, given at the last meeting of the Eurogroup Finance Ministers: the creation of the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness, in implementation of the mandate of the euro summit in December. Certainly, as he also pointed out, relevant aspects remain open and are far from what the Portuguese Government is defending. These are aspects that relate to the size, the sources of financing and even the functions to be performed by this mechanism. But it is good that the resistance of the Member States that oppose such a mechanism has been overcome, and we wanted to highlight this here. Let us hope that the same will happen with regard to the missing pillars, such as the banking union, in particular the deposit guarantee mechanism. Mr Prime Minister, I am now thinking about the new institutional cycle, which is under pressure by the fact that at the beginning of next July there is a need to elect the new President of the European Parliament when it begins to function. The recomposition of the governance framework of the institutions has never been as complex as today after the elections to the European Parliament and taking into account the composition of the European Council. The elections showed the sharp trend of a decade or two ago: Europe is becoming politically diverse, multiplying the agendas with reasonable expectations of achievement. The traditional tension between a more permeable Europe to the strict logic of markets, more focused on the single market and on improving competitiveness, more open to the phenomenon of globalisation, and a more social Europe, more concerned with cohesion and internal solidarity — tension, so far, played by the two political groups that have dominated the European Council and the European Parliament since its existence, with greater or less intervention from the ALDE (Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe) now Renew Europe — was challenged by the outcome of the elections. It is inevitable that those two classic agendas must be complemented, articulated or even subordinated by other agendas, sometimes contradictory, with the power to impose themselves: criticisms of globalization, environmentalists, geared to trade agreements, revisionists of migration policies. On the other hand, the elections also showed the ability of a populist, Euro-Ceptic, nationalist sector, to root out the right extremism, to gain positions, although in a far lower way than they announced and ambitioned. It is still to be seen whether those who advocate a practice and a nationalist and isolationist discourse, curating their own interests and disregarding those of others, are effectively able to unite with coherence and cohesion. But if this union of actions is achieved by them, it is not necessarily negative. Before creating a pole against which the European political forces — whether socialist, conservative, liberal or green — will be called to join forces at times and on decisive issues. In view of this scenario, institutional reconstruction will be successful to ensure at least two objectives: firstly, the balance between the various bodies — President of Parliament, President of the Commission, President of the Council, High Representative for the CFSP (common foreign and security policy) and, secondly, President of the European Central Bank — that enables the virtuoso harmonisation of the various agendas in terms that are beneficial for the deepening and consolidation of the European project; secondly, the ability to combine efforts to defeat those who want to destroy the European project and to join in this project the electorate who voted in them. Many of us support the consolidation of the Spitzenkandidadeten model. It is not the only conceivable model in the context of representative democracy, but its application contributes to the consolidation of the democratic and representative institutions of the European Union. However, it must be admitted that, in a polarized, fractional and challenging situation, as is the present one, this model can prove to be inexhaustible. Many of the data that are decisive today were not known when the Spitzenkandidadetens were chosen from the various political groups, and their profile may not be consistent with current requirements. Therefore, choices may have to achieve balances that do not necessarily pass through the personalities presented before, nor through the delivery of presidencies and leadership places to whom you have the most elected, although not enough to guarantee a majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u193	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u194	I will finish, Mr. President. In 2015, Portugal showed the ability to build, internally, an innovative, imaginative and successful model of governance, which was able to cope with the conditions that were then placed. It can therefore be a relevant example for Europe. Mr President, the prominent role that has been given to you in this process of institutional reconstruction is to play a positive role and a role that will allow for a proper and appropriate solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u195	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the first European Council after the European elections one of the main issues on the agenda is climate change. Clearly, it is the most emerging issue in our society today and, as we had the opportunity to say in the last debate in March — before the previous European Council — it is really necessary to take effective action to combat the problem. However, the next Council agenda indicates that they will return to this debate, again, with nothing concrete. He said here that what is on the table is more ambition, go further on the issue of carbon neutrality for 2050. The truth is, over time, we continue to hear many statements of intent, many palliative measures, but few truly courageous steps that face the interests behind large pollutants. But more than that, we believe that we need to enter this debate in a more serious way. And for this, we must start from a basic principle: that without fundamental changes in the current production model we will not be able to cope with climate change and global warming with the tragic results that we are already beginning to feel. The truth is that we are talking about impacts and consequences that are already irreversible today if there is no courage and willingness to move from words to acts. We know that in practice what you have been doing is not far from keeping everything in it. Since the previous European Council came out of little more than declarations of intent. The urgency of the matter is not consistent with further declarations of intent. The urgency of the younger generations, who continue to leave the streets, is not compatible with this delay in acting for a real change. I imagine Mr. Prime Minister was proud to have a Portuguese on the cover of Time magazine this week. But if you don't just stand by admiration for the photograph of Antonio Guterres, you will easily realize that the message is a huge concern and a call to action.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u197	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u198	We are in fact facing an emergency. The question we put before the previous European Council remains: what concrete measures, which actually alter the current paradigm, are planned for debate in the European Council? What is different in this matter in the European Council than in the past? This debate of the European Council has to go to another issue, which is truly the one that has warmed up hearts and passions in the offices of Brussels in recent times. We know that we are in the process of distribution of seats in the European institutions, as a result of the new assembly of forces resulting from the last European elections. And it is public that Mr Prime Minister has been one of the high-level interlocutors, particularly with the new European Liberals. Even during election periods, Mr Prime Minister has grown these approaches, particularly with Emmanuel Macron, a political fact which, from our point of view, needs to be clarified. So there are three questions we would like to leave. The first is to know whether this new alignment in European power games means acceptance of the budget treaty and its rules. We know that Macron, because he rules against the social state and against labour rights, whether a Europe that has exactly the same policy and therefore wants to give more strength to the budget treaty, so being with Macron is to align this strategy. The second question we are asking is whether it does not consider, Prime Minister, that this path is the opposite of what we have followed in Portugal. It is that several Members of the Socialist Party voted against the inclusion of the budgetary treaty in the European legal system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u200	...because they considered him wrong and, we said, they did very well. His Government and the political solution we launched in 2015 made various choices against these rules and, therefore, at the time, we were threatened by the European Commission with sanctions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u201	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u202	The conclusion that the Government drew is that it was wrong when it made all these decisions, considering the proximity it has to Emmanuel Macron lately? The third question is about the next multiannual financial framework, in order to know whether Mr Prime Minister, now one of the strong names in the Brussels corridors, will effectively seek a solution that reverses the planned loss of funds. We have had several opportunities to talk about changing the priorities in the multiannual financial framework and therefore the question is whether, on behalf of the Brussels throne war and the arrangements between political families, Mr. Prime Minister will agree to divert the money from solidarity and cohesion into military policies and accept a bad agreement for Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u203	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u204	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : I have listened to it carefully and, although drawing on the so-called three dimensions that you considered to be the European Council, you have sought and made an effort — and I would stress — to go through some subjects which I consider important, not only from a national point of view, but also from the point of view of the European Union : the issue of climate change and how to give them a comprehensive response, which, and above all, the European Union can give; the question of migration, which I would say, is one of the greatest symbols of what has been the failure of the European Union as such, in particular, from the point of view of what is a structural principle of the European Union, the principle of solidarity. Now, and in part, it is necessary to distinguish — and I know that Mr. Prime Minister knows that, obviously, it is not a request for Mr. Prime Minister — refugees in situations of illegal immigration, support for refugees and what is, or is not, support for illegal immigration, and in this sense, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs does well to support under any circumstances any Portuguese citizen who is accused of justice. We have the notion that we are within the framework of the European Union and that this has rights but also has duties and Italy is, of course, a state of democratic law, a democracy, therefore a friendly country of Portugal, and surely we respect its judicial principle. This is a separate part to tell you, Prime Minister, that your reply just ago was convincing to us and seems to us - indeed, of the most elementary good-sense. Mr Prime Minister also spoke about other issues that I would even like to be the subject and object of this European Council, but let me - let me tell you that I fear that none of this will really be discussed. Allow me, perhaps, some excessive pessimism, some irritating pessimism, but I believe that the first, second and third dimensions will be institutional issues, not to say that it is no more than an euphemism for the question of chairs. Mr Prime Minister, I am saying this in some light, but, of course, with concern, because this is precisely why European citizens are moving away from Europe, that is precisely what makes us all regretting the high degree of abstention in many circumstances. My question about this is simple. Regardless of the greater or lesser sympathy we may have with the candidate, the greater or lesser recognition and even the greater or lesser reasons for complaint we may have with what your past has been in defense of some interests that are consistent or not with our interests, the truth is that there are treaties, standards — it would not call them traditions, because they are recent — but we are based on a logic in the light of election results. It is true that this is not binding, it is indicative, but it is no less true that this was a provision which was changed to bring the citizens of the European Union closer together, making when they were voting for the European Parliament they felt that in some way they were also voting for a European institution, in this case for the European Commission and for the President of the Commission. I do not want to fall into this mistake of the name war, but I just wanted to ask you a very specific question: does a candidate not accept a candidate outside the lists, therefore, a third candidate, and is that the position of the Portuguese Government, or rejects this view completely that, although without a majority, the candidate of the most voted political family is what should be indicated for that same place? Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, with regard to the Plurianual Financial Framework, we know that there may be a new timetable. If so, what will it be? We also know that Mr. Prime Minister, a little after some pressure from the CDS, came to say that that first proposal for this Plurianual Financial Framework could be changed. Finally, we are not going to go into the war of numbers — of possible 7% cuts in cohesion, of any 15 % cuts in the second pillar, which is fundamental to matters such as agriculture — but I ask you whether you hope to change this first proposal of funds and, if so, what you will do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : After the elections to the European Parliament, the social discourse and the fight against the extreme right has collapsed. At the negotiating table on the forthcoming positions in the Eurocracy nomenclature is the extreme right. Hypocrisy is the mark of a European Union which, by means of the new cycle, has nothing new to offer to the peoples of Europe. Moreover, the solutions that are known for the European Union's positions tell us that. The old and rotten consensus between right and social-democracy there is making its way, hugging and calling into the house some of those who were said to fight, particularly the liberals. The strategic agenda 2019 - 2024 which will be discussed at the European Council is the best evidence that the European Union has no answer to the problems that people are facing, on the contrary. It is with deep concern that we look at objectives such as the deepening of the European Union and the continuing idea of the budget for the euro area, that Minister Mário Centeno is so proud, the military and security drift, the deepening of the so-called migration policy, the deepening of the single market, aiming at more privatization and capital concentration, or the setting up of investment, directing it to multinationals. We recall Mr. Prime Minister's eloquent speeches in the election campaign on the social pact. Well, do you know how many times the word'social' appears on the strategic agenda that is under discussion? Two! What about work? None! What about labour rights? Zero! And combat precariousness? Zero! And we could continue out there. After the elections, it's all the same. To insist on this path has very high costs in the policy of impoverishment, of attack on rights, of creating injustices and inequalities in Europe-fortress. And you are responsible for its consequences. On the Plurianual Financial Framework, there is one question that is being asked: will the Government or not use its veto right to prevent a new cut, the third, in the budget of the European Union for Portugal? Will it or will it not prevent cuts in cohesion and in the common agricultural policy? Or is it going to shut down and sign below a budget that cuts into social policies but increases more than 1000 % in military spending? In view of the black scenario that is seen in this so-called new cycle, the European Union is now seeking to paint it green, to appear environmental concerns. from what is known of the European Union's environmental policy there is no intention to intervene on the structural causes of environmental degradation, particularly those that reside at the heart of the functioning of the capitalist economy. If we want to seriously discuss environmental protection, we begin by discussing the reversal of emissions trading policy and focusing attention on large international corporations, including the highly polluting military industrial sector; financing measures such as the extension of intermodal social pass and the promotion of public transport; public control of energy sector companies; encouraging research into the development of new cleaner technologies or supporting policies to support local production and consumption, combating intensive and superintensive production, responsible for increased emissions and the increased use of agrochemicals. Why is it not included in the Industrial Emissions Directive the pollutants which are on the carbon market and which are excluded from the scope of this Directive? Or why is there no strengthening of programmes intended to preserve nature, alongside the creation of a specific financial instrument to support the management of the areas of the Natura 2000 Network? In particular, the adoption of a regulatory approach to the climate change problem is discussed, to the detriment of the current commercialist approach. We are discussing the accountability of large producers and not consumers, taking into account the best available technologies and supporting the creation of conditions for their implementation and generalisation, with a view to reducing greenhouse gases. This could indeed pave the way for a serious approach to environmental and climate problems, not what is proposed for this European Council. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u207	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : This debate serves, above all, to enable the Assembly of the Republic to speak about European construction and the Greens believe that talking about the European construction process should imply that the European Council itself should regularly examine the ways of European Union policies and, above all, its results, because what we see is that the European Union continues to make a great effort to feed the markets and fatten the financial sectors, completely ignoring the European citizens and the peoples of Europe. Therefore, from the perspective of the Greens, the European Union must begin to look more at people, Europeans, and less at the bank. But, Prime Minister, on the agenda of this Council, the issue of climate change is again under discussion, this time in view of the United Nations climate summit. As we know, the European Union intends to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, but it happens that for many researchers this goal will be seriously compromised if the European Union maintains its carbon reduction target by 2030 at 30 %. For some researchers, in fact, the European Union will only achieve the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 if there is a carbon reduction by 2030 in the order of 65 %. But Mr Prime Minister, since this Council will certainly be debating the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for the European Union to be more ambitious in terms of carbon reduction targets by 2030, what I am asking is what position the Portuguese Government will take on this challenge made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who considers that the goal of carbon neutrality will only be possible by 2050 if the European Union changes its carbon reduction targets by 2030. In other words, the United Nations considers that carbon neutrality is only possible by 2050 if the European Union changes its carbon reduction target by 2030, leaving the current target of 30 % and setting a target of 55 % for carbon reduction by 2030. Therefore, basically, we wanted to know what position the Portuguese Government will take on this subject, in the face of the challenge launched by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, so that the European Union by 2030 will reduce carbon by 55 % and not by 30 %, as it is currently expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u209	To close the debate, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the first question, which was put by Mrs Rubina Berardo, I would like to say that it is clear that with the new results of the European Parliament today we have a much more fragmented Parliament, which requires an extended negotiation of different political families. Where it used to be enough two families to have a majority, it is now necessary at least three or four families to have a political majority. Secondly, this majority must also have a coincidence in the Council. For example, it is only necessary for the President of the Commission to have a majority in the Council, which proposes, which corresponds to a majority in Parliament, that it approves. That is why this majority has to be drawn taking into account the mathematical reality: the reproduction of the majority of parliament in the Parliament in the European Parliament is simply not possible, because arithmetic does not add up. It is that by adding the Group of the GUE ( Confederal Group of the European United Left ) to the Socialist, Social-Democrat and Labour Group, we do not have a majority, we even have a minority. at the level of the Council this reproduction already exists, since for at least three and a half years, and I am witness, Prime Minister Alexis Typras participates in the preparation of the European Councils with the socialist and social-democratic prime ministers and participates with us in the strategy of building a progressive majority which, necessarily, must have as its first aim to prevent the formation of a majority in the European Parliament without the left being part of that majority. We have to choose someone for the President of the Commission who seeks to match the will of the European Parliament, i.e. someone who is chosen from among whom the President of the European Commission has been nominated. It is not a norm, it is not in the treaties, but it is a good principle and I think that the Council should exhaust all possibilities of having a candidate or candidate for the President of the Commission of those who have been called spitzenkandidadeten. Frankly, I do not think that this is impossible, there is one and one that fulfils all the conditions for being excellent Presidents of the Commission, and there is one who unfortunately does not believe that he has political experience, both at national and European level, in order to be able to play the role, regardless of — and I believe that surely — he cannot deserve the support of a country he has sought to punish, against everything and against all. I know that Mrs Rubina Berardo supports the candidate who wanted to punish Portugal for not going further in compliance with austerity policy and wanted to punish Portugal for the political change that was made in 2015. Respect, it is consistent with what PSD always wanted, punish Portugal and the Portuguese, but with us they will not count on supporting someone who wants to punish Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what is crucial is that, in addition to the places, we are discussing an agenda and a programme, which must, in fact, have as priority the implementation of the social pillar — in fact, the proposal for a strategy in its new drafting — which takes account of an economic policy which is both green and inclusive, on growth, on convergence, on strengthening cohesion, on reducing inequalities and on creating more and better employment, which gives very clear priority to the conclusion of the Economic and Monetary Union, which gives priority to the climate change programme and ensures a multi-annual financial framework where neither the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, which is concerned with rural development, suffers from a reduction or that countries like Portugal have a reduction in the money to receive from cohesion policy. There is another absolutely strategic and fundamental dimension that has to do with the creation of the euro area's budgetary capacity. That is a decisive matter. Our experience is also illustrative: Portugal has strongly converged with the European Union until accession to the euro and since accession to the euro we have ceased to converge. There will be our faults, certainly, but there is a systemic reason that has to do with the difficulty we have had of adapting to a more demanding competitive framework, which is participation in the euro area. Only in 2017, 2018 and now in 2019 are we reverse this trend, but we know that, in order to reverse it, we need to be able to do more and the recommendations of the European Commission say - clearly - we have to invest more in qualifications, we have to invest more in railway infrastructures and the port sector and we have to invest more in what increases our growth potential. For this to happen, the cohesion instrument is not enough nor is it enough to withdraw money from cohesion in order to be able to do so; there must be a sum and a programme intended exclusively for the euro area countries and countries which, within the euro area, have to make a convergence effort, which must be properly aligned with the recommendations of the European Semester. For this reason, the existence of these EUR 17 billion which can be reserved for the 19 euro area countries, and among them those who have to make a convergence effort and who can have specific programmes—for example, in the case of our recommendations it is to invest in qualifications, invest in rail and port capacity and invest in the decarbonisation of the economy—is a budgetary complement of the greatest importance in order to accelerate the convergence process with the European Union. That is why it is not a small thing, on the contrary, it is absolutely strategic and essential. What if, instead of 17 billion, we wanted you to have twice as much? Of course! The triple? Even better! But there is one thing that is certain: three and a half years ago, when we began to place as priority the existence of this budgetary capacity for convergence, it was taboo for more than half of the members of the Council ; today it is already something unanimous among the members of the Council. What is currently open to discuss in this Council, after the Eurogroup, is the key to sharing between the different states. I believe that Portugal has everything to gain from this opportunity to create an embryo that has a capacity, even if limited, but that has all the potential to develop, grow and reach maturity in the future. Our experience is very clear: it is not enough for us to have the money of cohesion, we must also have the money that increases our competitiveness, which increases our productive potential, because only then can we be more coherent internally but also more competitive externally. Now, it is absolutely essential to achieve this and that is where we will negotiate and work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-18.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our agenda. I thank the Prime Minister, the members of the Government present and all the Members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. I recall that tomorrow's plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m., will have as its sole point a debate under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, required by the CDS-PP, on the theme « in defense of taxpayers, against the abuses of the Tax Authority ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing else to deal with, I'm closing the session. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
