ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u2	Mr President, I begin by announcing the result of the election of a member to the National Defence Superior Council, which took place in the previous session. The until is of the following content: « At twenty-five days in January of two thousand and nineteen, a member was elected to the National Defence Superior Council proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party. The result was as follows: Voters — 201 Votes ‘yes’ — 148 White votes — 45 No votes — 8 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, Mr José Manuel de Matos Correia declared himself elected to the National Defence Superior Council. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Voting Members, Diogo León — Pedro Alves. Do not keep on seeking. ” I shall then take account of several legislative initiatives which have entered the Bureau and which have been admitted by Mr President : Bills Nos 1088 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career of Health Assistant Technique, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1089 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the imposition of conduct or for the prohibition of contact where there is strong evidence of the practice of criminal prosecution ( Procedure 39 ). the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1090 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Bans the use of t-shirts as a means of hunting, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 1091 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change the law of hunting, preventing the use of t-shirts as a hunting process, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 1092 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, Decree-Law No. 89 / 2009 and Decree-Law No. 91 / 2009, both of 9 April, extending the parental leave in case of premature birth, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1094 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Expands the socio-educational support granted to students of public schools to students of all schools under the same conditions as the Commission, 1097 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Pigeiros, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reverting to the Union of Freguesias imposed on the populations by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1098 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the Freguesia de Caldas de São Jorge, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reversing the Union of Freguesias imposed on the people by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January, which goes down to 11. the commission. Resolution Nos 1954 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the signing and ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which falls to 2. the Commission, with connection to 3. the Commission, 1955 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government introduce compulsory training in secondary education in Basic Life Support — External Automatic Defibrillation « SBV — DAE », which falls to 8. the Commission, with connection to 5. the Commission, 1956 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By implementing an integrated continuous care unit and rehabilitation at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão ( Penacova), 1957 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of a public service of quality and efficient in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa, which falls to 6. the Commission, with connection to 10. the Commission, and 1958 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which falls to 2. the Commission, with connection to 3. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u3	Let us then move on to the first item on our agenda, which is made up of political statements. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please provide conditions in the Chamber for the speaker to be heard. For a political statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens devoted yesterday to a set of visits in the Portalegre district to address a number of problems faced by the region and the people of the North of Alentejo. Together with these initiatives we had the opportunity to make a working visit to the Northern Alentejo Health Unit, where we found the existing problems and the difficulties that citizens find in accessing health care. In fact, the situation of this Health Unit is not very different from that of many other health services in our country. The problems, particularly the lack of health professionals, also represent a major obstacle to people's access to health care. And the worst thing is that the situation at Portalegre Hospital is not an isolated case. The news happens and the cases accumulate at a worrying pace. The situation in which many health services are located at the SNS (National Health Service) is unfortunately very unhealthy and not recommended. We well know that the problem is not today and that the situation that is now being experienced is the result of structural insufficiency. If today the lack of response from the SNS is visible, it is also visible that this lack of response is a direct consequence of political options from several governments that over the decades have consolidated and increased the underfinancing of the SNS to the condition of established rule. In this regard, it is important to recall the closure of health services throughout the country, the reduction of beds and health professionals and the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals, which, having come from behind, has reached all limits with the previous government. If it is true that the current government is beginning to delay taking measures to give effective answers to all of these health problems today, it is also true that the policies of the previous Government had an absolutely central role in the worsening of health problems. In this regard, it is recalled that by the hand of the PSD government / CDS-PP, health lost more than 7000 professionals, which naturally aggravated the response capacity of the SNS. As much as it costs some benches, the truth is that some steps have already been taken to counter these policies that have left health more fragile than ever. Today, we have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in several areas. But that's not enough! We have more professionals, it is true, but it is also true that they are still insufficient. And this insufficiency, in addition to hindering Portuguese access to health care, is still posing serious risks with regard to physical and mental health care for health professionals themselves, who are faced with truly hallucinating work rhythms and the need to resort excessively to extraordinary hours, so often without any compensation. For this reason, the Greens consider that strengthening the hiring of health professionals, as well as the professional and remuneration valuation of these professionals are essential for the survival of the SNS itself with a standard that Portuguese deserve and the one they are entitled to. Then, users must be given access to health care, and above all ensure that Portuguese people do not stop accessing health for economic reasons. in this matter, it gains particular relevance to the need to permanently end the moderate rates that, in fact, are not moderate. But strengthening the National Health Service also means putting a brake on the intolerable promiscuity that is installed between the public sector and the private health sector. This is a reality which has gradually been gaining volume and size and which points to a truly frightening trend, in which health is less and less a right and more and more a business. It is here that, in our view, is one of the main reasons for the current situation of the National Health Service that it is important to definitely revert. We refer to the various mechanisms used to fatten the private market with health interests and, of course, to public-private partnerships. In our view, the State cannot continue to transfer its responsibilities to the private, much less with regard to the provision of health care. We can make the rounds we want, but we will always reach the same conclusion: today's situation in the National Health Service is not the result of chance, not even any product of any divine intervention, it is the result of options from various governments of the PS, PSD and CDS, having as fundamental support the Health Bases Act of 1990 which, remember, is important to say this - was approved exclusively by the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u5	It took 28 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u6	However, if we have an obligation to learn from mistakes, it is necessary to reverse the central elements and guidelines of this 1990 Basic Law. For this reason, The Greens consider that the Health Bases Act, under discussion in this House, represents an excellent opportunity to proceed to a real separation of sectors, placing private and social sectors in the right place, i.e. by referring them to the background, with an additional nature to the SNS and with the State to regulate and monitor their activities in the defence of the public interest. In summary, a Health Base Act is required to promote an investment in the 1990 Basic Law guidelines, in particular in terms of financing, the relationship of the public sector with the private sector, the appreciation of health professionals and the end of the moderate rates, which are not moderate, as we know. We therefore need a new Health Bases Act that replaces the 1990 Basics Act, which I repeat was approved exclusively by the PSD and the CDS. If it is true that consensus is desirable in this regard, they are not, however, essential, provided that, of course, the constitutionally established rules are respected. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u7	Five Members have signed up to request clarifications from Mr José Luís Ferreira. I ask you, honourable Member, how you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u8	Mr President, I respond first to a group of three requests for clarification and then to the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u9	Of course. Therefore, I give the floor, first of all, to Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD, to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u10	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all, I would like to thank you for the subject which today brings here the debate because it is a very important issue for the PSD bench. What I am starting to ask you is how it is possible for Mr. José Luís Ferreira to have made this speech that we have just heard when three and a half years of governance that exists only because his party supports it. And see, honourable Member, it is three and a half years in which the Greens are complicit in a government that is responsible for a 14 % fall in public investment compared to the year 2015 of that government you mentioned. Greens are complementary to a government that increases the financing of PPPs (public-private partnerships) by more than EUR 12 million compared to 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u12	The details of the summary of the budget implementation from January to December 2018, which have been disclosed this week, tell us — see there! — that we even have late payments to hospitals above what we had in 2015, and now the debt of more than 7%, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u13	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u14	Therefore, the honourable Member is an accomplice to a government of failed promises, of shameful negotiations with all health professionals and who even approves diplomas unilaterally, without any negotiation. Mr President, I would like to ask you a number of questions, but one of them, since you came here to talk about the Portalegre district, is about the Guard District.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u16	Mr. Member, the Emergency Director of the Guard Hospital has resigned because there are escalated doctors who do not appear, because there are patients in the corridor, because there is a lack of clinical consumption material. And, look there, Mr President, to a place where there is a lot of cold — even though the Minister of the Environment does not think — the Seia Health Centre, where I had the opportunity to be yesterday, there are patients who go there at 4 in the morning to ensure consultation! What I ask you is whether you have come here today just to accept your fault in this dismantling—I think this is a word that should return to the lexicon of this House, particularly to the PCP bench—if you have come to assume responsibility for dismantling the National Health Service or if, instead, Mr. Deputies, what you came here today was a fault and a pre-announcement of withdrawal from the political confidence of your party and the PCP to the de-government of Dr. António Costa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u17	Also for a request for clarification, Mr António Sales, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u18	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for bringing the issue of health to your political statement. Mr. Depute, let's go to the facts: in a study published yesterday by the Portuguese Consumer Defense Association in collaboration with researchers from the University of Medicine of Lisbon, the Portuguese give a vote of confidence to Portuguese hospitals, also emphasizing the provision of health professionals, who praise them. Mrs. Members, this reinforced confidence of the Portuguese in their hospital services and the return of the Portuguese to hospitals of the National Health Service shows the effort this government has made in investing in the National Health Service... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ...and opposed all the policy of chaos and misfortune that PSD and CDS have sought to intrude together with the narrative of the devil! We all realize that this narrative does not match the reality, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u19	The political declaration was not mine, it was from the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u20	This study confirms that. He confirms that the expectations of Portuguese are today of greater confidence in hospitals and professionals of the National Health Service. However, Mrs Deputies and Mr Deputies, the Portuguese also tell us that they are vigilant and that we have to improve, and we have this perception. We need to improve emergency care services, we need to improve in the expectation of this care, we need to improve contact, distance, hospital services and health centers. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask you the following question: how do you see the discrepancy between the reality permanently diabolized by the right, PSD and CDS, and the favorable perception on the ground—that this study is very clear! — of Portuguese people, when they contact health services on a daily basis? What do you think, Mr President, is it really necessary to do, with the democratic humility that we have, to further improve public care and services of our health? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u21	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u22	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr José Luís Ferreira on his political statement to us, in which he identified some problems in the National Health Service: lack of professionals — still! — difficulty fixing these professionals, difficulties of access in certain regions of the country and to certain services. That's all true. He also identified — and well! — one of the main problems of the National Health Service : the Basics of Health Act 1990. It was the Basics Law that entrepreneurship hospitals, it was the Basics Law that destroyed careers of professionals, it is the Basics Law that says that the mobility of professionals outside the National Health Service should be encouraged, it was the Basics Law that made the National Health Service budget available to the small, medium and large business in health. That is one of the great problems that we have on the table today and that we have to solve. Last week, in this same Chamber, the Assembly of the Republic discussed this problem and discussed several proposals to create a new Basic Law. We realize that, on the right, there is a terrible fear that the carpet will be taken from those who live with the Portuguese health and disease business and from the users, but what we really have to do is, finding the problems, answering this question: as a country, do we want health as a right or do we want health as a business?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u24	This is the big issue, and it is on this issue that we should debate the content of the proposals and the content of the next Health Bases Act. We will not stop on matters of form or mere arithmetic. That's looking at the branch! This is to put questions in a way to try to condition the content of the Basic Law that has to be produced in this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u25	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. What really matters is discussing the content, because that is what will define the provision of health care for the future. The question I put to Mr José Luís Ferreira is whether, on the Green side, the debate will focus on the content or on parliamentary arithmetic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u27	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u28	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put by Mrs Angela Guerra, Mr Antonio Sales and Mr Moisés Ferreira. In response to Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to say that, of course, the Greens have a great deal of concern about the content of the diploma rather than arithmetic. Even because arithmetic is very complicated when, on the one hand, there are those who see health as a right and, on the other, those who see health as a business; some see users and others see customers. We do not want to diabolize the private sector in the area of health, but we want to put it in the right place, that is, with a purely complementary nature to the National Health Service. Therefore, we do not want to diabolize the private sector, but we do not want the private sector to be the solution of the health regime. Mr António Sales, the answer to your question is very simple: the devil did not come and the PSD failed once again in its predictions. Moreover, it seemed more like a prediction of former Minister Vítor Gaspar, whose predictions were, as we know, very real! The answer, Mr António Sales, is in the DECO study. If there are any doubts, it is very clear about the questions it raises. Mrs. Angela Guerra, the PSD says health is a very important issue. Does the honourable Member know what the Greens are complicit in? It's about getting PSD worried about health! [[Rice from PSD MP Angel War.]] It's only now that the PSD has been worried about health! As long as you were in the government, that's what you saw! [[PSD protests.]] Is she able to speak of the dismantling of the National Health Service when she had a Minister of Health who closed services and who, above all, said that she was closing them to strengthen the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u29	I am, yes! I remember, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u30	We have good sense, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u31	Very!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u32	The Greens don't want to take any political confidence! I know what the honourable Member is talking about. It must refer to those times when someone put himself on foot with absolutely irrevocable decisions and who forced the Prime Minister to change the Government's Organic Law to create the post of Deputy Prime Minister, but that time is already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u33	Now they're beating hands in new times! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u34	That time will be there, Mrs. Deputies. On public-private partnerships, will the honourable Member know, perhaps, who renegotiated them in the area of health? Oh, my God! It was the PSD and CDS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u35	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u36	But I am glad that the PSD now points to public-private partnerships. Lack of knowledge is the PSD's availability to definitely end public-private partnerships in the area of health. In time, we'll see how the PSD stands about it. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u37	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u38	Mr President, I begin by welcoming the Green Party for bringing the issue of health to the Assembly of the Republic once again. Mr. Deputies, the characterization that made the current situation of the National Health Service is correct, and this was seen in the PSD reaction. It has raised the question that today the situation in the National Health Service is a consequence of right-wing policy, PSD, CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u39	It's been three and a half years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u40	... and that the PS doesn't disintegrate either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u41	And that you support!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u42	The honourable Member said — and said so well! — the lack of professionals, who have difficulty fixing, who have users on a waiting list, who have consultations that take too long. He also said what the consequences would be, but he raised the issue in the current debate. Mr President, I believe that the Greens Ecological Party agrees with the CFP that the discussion around the Basics Law cannot postpone the resolution of problems that arise and that are urgent to resolve in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u43	Agree, agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u44	The honourable Member has put the issues which must be under discussion. For these days, the possibility of a veto on the Health Bases Law has been reported. Mr President, in view of what has been reported, I ask you whether the question that is being raised is to put into the hands of the PSD the Basics Law which may come out. Given the debate about the Basics Law, which happened last week, we well know what path the PSD wants to take to the Basics Law: it is not about the right to health, but about the ideology of business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u45	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not the path of the right to health, as enshrined in the Constitution, but to perpetuate promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector, to continue to grow the safes of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u47	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u48	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, the question I put to you is whether it is considered that what we have to hit us is by a universal, free national health service, by a fully public management and by the end of PPPs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u49	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u50	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr José Luís Ferreira on bringing here the issue of health — unfortunately for bad reasons! — and, above all, for at the end of three years and so on, go to the ground to see and talk here in the District of Portalegre, saying that this is indeed not an isolated case. No, sir! That's what the CDS has been saying for over three years. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] In fact, it is painful to follow the decline in Portuguese health in the last three years of a socialist government that you have supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u51	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u52	The honourable Member has drawn a portrait here, but I believe that in some things he has failed to complete it with realism and rigour, which is something that pleases the CDS. It failed to say that the transposition for 35 hours was unprepared, it was rushed...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u54	... and brought chaos to health teams, to whom this government owes millions of hours and who are exhausted; it brought more hours in the provision of services and less opening vacancies for competitions in places where doctors are missing from certain specialties; it brought more waiting times, delays in surgery, delays in consultations. The Portuguese know this, the CDS has talked about this, the Greens seem to be distracted! It was now, in Portalegre, that they saw better what was going on! But there are other questions that you did not speak of: you did not speak of the seizures; you did not speak of the Centeno "garrot"; you did not speak of the underfinancing, which has worsened with this government;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u56	... he did not mention the lack of investment; he forgot to mention the former Minister of Health, Adalberto Fernandes, to say that there was indeed no investment by the government that you are responsible for supporting. The honourable Member has forgotten! With regard to health, there are many blackouts in this government, and here too, by the way. It is painful to watch the health situation in Portugal. In fact, we want the protection of the right to health to all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is no demagogy, there are no semi-interpreted studies like, in fact, happened here today. Finally, I would like to say that something else is missing: Mr Deputy has failed to explain to the Portuguese people — because they do not understand! — how the Greens Ecological Party comes here to denounce the health situation and is making it possible four years ago to support this policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u59	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u60	In fact, the Portuguese do not understand. Is this a bad conscience, Mr. José Luís Ferreira? Oh, my God! Is it to see if they're relieved? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and the PSD MP Angel War.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u61	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u62	Mr President, I would like to thank Members Carla Cruz and Isabel Galriza Neto for their questions. I begin by replying to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP, telling her the following: The Greens have not gone to the ground at the end of three years, The Greens have been on the ground for many years. So they're not sleeping!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u64	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u65	If Mrs. Deputy says that the CDS has been raising health problems for more than three years, I would say that it seems that the CDS has only agreed to health problems for three and a half years. When you were in the government with the PSD, the CDS-PP went to sleep! I have to conclude that the CDS has been sleeping during that period! It wasn't The Greens who were sleeping. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Madam Member, I know that the concern of the honourable Member and the CDS-PP regarding 35 hours is not the chaos that caused this. It's just the CDS didn't want the workers to work 35 hours...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u66	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u67	Isn't that true? So how did the CDS vote that law? Oh, my God! If not, why did the CDS vote against that law? [[Protests from PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra e Luís Vales and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galliça Neto.]] That's right! That's right! On the underfinancing, Mrs Deputies, since you are saying that it is not true, I will tell you one more thing that will also tell me that it is not true. If you do not know that during the PSD/CDS government, the underfunding of health suffered a rumb of EUR 1000 million. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was the cut of underfunding in the area of health, in the National Health Service. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on in the room?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u69	Looks like there's a lot of trouble!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u70	There is only one Member speaking. Go on, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u71	Madam Member, I just wanted to tell you that, as a Member, I play my part. It is for the Assembly of the Republic to monitor the activity of the Government. I know that the honourable Member was used in the past to the fact that the Assembly of the Republic was a mere resonance box of the Government. That's not the case. We're here to report and monitor. Like it or not, that's it! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Mrs Carla Cruz, in fact, the portrait of the National Health Service is this: there are no professionals, there are problems... There are problems that stem from political options that have been taken for decades by several governments, including the PS, the PS, and the CDS. It's true! And above all by the last government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u72	Sure! The Greens were not government for sure! And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u73	With regard to the veto, Mrs Carla Cruz, I have to say the following: as I have said a little ago, we are concerned about content and not arithmetic. The consensus is desirable, but it is not essential. What is needed is to respect the rules that are established from a constitutional point of view, because I know it is not easy to reach consensus between those who look at the business and those who look at the right, among those who look at the users and those who look at the customers, among those who want to weaken the National Health Service and those who want to promote it. We have a Basics Law that was approved exclusively by the PSD and the CDS. It is the law that is currently in force and has crossed several governments. Several governments of various parties have managed to survive with that Basic Law, so for the future, it will certainly also be possible for governments that have come to be subject to the law that comes out of this House, because it is for this House that it is necessary to approve laws and other bodies whether or not it is necessary to promulgate the diplomas. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u74	Let's move on to a new political statement. To that end, Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With great serenity, with a sense of responsibility, without need to go after media holofotes of the day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u76	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u77	... nor any commissary populist speeches, it is necessary to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, whose hypocrisy has limits. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from PS MP Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]] Factual truth is only one: for various reasons, or not, the parties that support the government have, over the past few years, tried to hide from the Portuguese the reality about the mismanagement, at least foolish, occurring in the public bank, in the course of the last socialist government and that so many millions of euros have cost the Portuguese taxpayers. In Parliament, before the committees of inquiry, during the committees of inquiry or even after its speedy closure, the Bloc, the PCP and the PS did everything so that Parliament and the Portuguese did not know the truth. The Block and the PCP would have been perhaps for ideological reasons, because they did not want the Portuguese to realize that bad management can happen both in the private bank and in the public bank, so their theory of sanctification of the public sector in the face of perversion and the existence of acts of harmful management that would occur only in the private sector would fall to the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u79	The PS will have been by wrong conscience,... [[PS protests.]] [[There comes hypocrisy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u80	... because many of the current government officials are the same as the previous socialist incarnation, and certainly, at least informally, they did not know how the General Deposit Box worked at that time, i.e. as a mere delegation of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister's office so that credit would be granted to friends and under special conditions. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Some, the Block, the PCP and the PS, ended up being accomplices in an attempt to conceal the truth from the Portuguese, to know who caused the hole in the General Deposit Box, that is, who did not pay the credits he received and who are directly responsible for granting these credits. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the above, the recent behaviour of the Bloc, the PCP and the PS, to demand everything now to clarify, shows one of the biggest hypocrisies of the recent Portuguese policy. But let it be so, for it is never too late to join the PSD in the demand for truth to be learned. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u81	After the President of the PSD, Dr. Rui Rio, a year ago, was the first to demand the public knowledge of the list of defaulters of the General Deposit Box ; after having failed in this Parliament, in 2016, the request for an independent audit, after conducting the anti-will audit, seeking to hide the result thereof ; after the insistences of this Parliament, through the Budget Committee, that the report of this audit be sent to us, with successive refusals of the administration of the Box and the Minister of Finance, who stated « I do not want to know what it contains », it was necessary to pass seven months and that a leak of information would arise so that the blocking parties would say they wanted to know what happened in the General Deposit Box. What hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]] It seems that now, at last, there has been some light when the Attorney-General of the Republic has found that the report of this audit should even be referred to Parliament, a decision which we naturally welcome. But we hope that this decision by the Attorney-General of the Republic will be consistent and that the final report from the audit to the management of the Box will arrive at Parliament without further delay and with all the information that can be found for the analysis of Members. The PSD does not give up, we do not give up the knowledge of reality and the clearance of responsibilities. We do not play with the parliamentary instruments or banalize them at a rate that only discredits them, but we do not resign from using them when they become necessary and indispensable for the Portuguese to know the truth. We therefore state clearly and categorically that with this report sent to the Assembly of the Republic and with the recently approved law on the initiative of the PSD, which only had the support of the PS in this House and which is awaiting the promulgation of the President of the Republic, the bank seal is being eliminated when financial operations are concerned leading to the need for injection into the public money bank, Parliament will then be in a position to resume the work of the Commission of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box, which is closed on the left to hide the truth from the Portuguese. We lost almost three years. Let's do what could be done now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u82	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u83	I will finish, Mr. President. More than EUR 4 billion of taxpayers, closure of agencies, dispensation of employees, increase and creation of new customer commissions, is the price that we are all paying for the discharges of management in the previous socialist consulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u85	Stop it! It's time for the Portuguese to know the truth. This is the time for Parliament to exercise, in its entirety, its powers, without subterfuges, without smoke masks, without the blockades of the present majority. Let's see if today's words...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u86	Mr. Deputies, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u87	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, let's see if today's words mean a new behavior or if it's just smoking, continuing to hide the truth to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u88	Like all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, registrations for requests for clarification should be made until the end of the speech of the speaker who would like to question. Four Members have signed up to request clarification from Mr Duarte Pacheco, who has informed the Bureau that he wishes to answer two to two. For the first request for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u89	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, we had a debate on the audit in Box last Friday and the position of the CFP was clear: we are waiting for the audit to draw more conclusions, but what is already known is enough reason to require the clearance of the personal responsibilities of those who, with pain or without pain, out of mere incompetence or inoperence, have failed to reach this level of losses of billions of euros. I need the box to clear this up. It is also necessary to establish judicial responsibilities, and that is up to justice. The Assembly of the Republic also has its role to play, and even today the Minister of Finance has come to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, the CFP's request to report. As far as political responsibilities are concerned, they have already been identified. In the Box investigation committees, it was clear that responsibility lies with successive PS governments, PSD and CDS,... [[PSD Member Fernando Virgílio Macedo's laughs.]] ... that aligned the Box with the practices of private banks, which provided guidelines to favour large economic groups and credit for failed projects and ruinous businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u91	For years, the ruinous private management has led to scandals that have already cost billions of euros to Portuguese, at BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), at BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), Banif ( International Funchal Bank ) and others. Today, in its political statement, the PSD decided to return to this topic of Box. It is extraordinary that the PSD is so concerned about the Box now, but it was not as long as it was government, nor was it as long as the administrators appointed by the PSD never called into question the guidelines that led to the situation that you know. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u92	The Box can't be managed like a private band. The return that the Portuguese want to see from the Box is not only dividends to the shareholder State, it is the presence throughout the territory rather than the closure of balconies ; it is to have a bank that does not align with the increase in banking commissions, thus making others fall too ; it is to have a bank that finances the economy, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises; it is to have a bank that respects its workers and maintains its prestige. I ask you, Mr Member, whether the PSD will, together with the PS and the CDS, assume the responsibilities it has in the successive administrations of the Box, in the appointment of the governors of the Banco de Portugal and in the political guidelines they have given to the Box, which have been detrimental to the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u93	Also for a request for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u94	Mr President, Mr. PSD's intervention is the intervention of the PSD's heavy conscience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Heavy consciousness, because the PSD only wanted to know the truth about Box management when it went to the opposition! When he was in power, he never wanted to know about the management of the General Deposit Box and covered it up - go now know why! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that this audit report and, eventually, the parliamentary inquiry that is being carried out will show us why the PSD, when it was in power for four and a half years, did not control the management of the General Deposit Box or wanted to know about it! If we have an audit report in hand it is because this government has determined to the General Deposit Box an external and independent audit to the management of the Box between 2000 and 2015. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u95	This government has done what the previous government has never done for four and a half years! The former Government has never determined an audit of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he didn't determine it because he had a strategy. He did not determine it, not because there were no warnings about the severity of the General Deposit Box situation because there were them. In the 2012 capitalisation, when the State injected EUR 1650 million into the General Deposit Box, the previous Government was unable to audit the situation of the General Deposit Box. When the General Deposit Box began to damage at the end of 2011, at the time of your Government, the previous Government was not able to request an audit to know what was going on in the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And more, sirs. Members: when the previous government received the quarterly reports from the General Financial Inspection to alert for the escalation of inequalities that were recorded in the balance sheet of the Box, in the time of your government, you swung to the air! They didn't want to know what was going on in the General Deposit Box! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u96	And it's not us who are affirming it. The Court of Auditors accused the former Government and the former Ministry of Finance of lack of control in the management of the General Deposit Box. At the end of 2013, the inequalities in the Box, of the time of your government, were EUR 4500 million. At the end of 2015, the inequalities fired at EUR 5200 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u97	Mr. Member, pay attention to time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u98	You have many explanations to give to the country about what you didn't do and what you didn't want to know about the General Deposit Box. Your main goal was to privatize the Box, do to the Box what they did to the CTTs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u99	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u100	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, I would like to say the following: when it is necessary to scream a lot is because we have no reason to say what we are saying. [[PSD applause.]] So, honourable Member, it is very simple: about what happened, we all know part of the story. During the previous socialist management of the country, it was not only the country that went to bankruptcy, it was also the General Deposit Box. You treated Caixa as they treated Portugal, likewise leading to bankruptcy between the two institutions. [[PSD applause.]] And then we had to restore the situation in the country and clean up half of the inequalities that already existed there left by your comrades, some who are in Évora, as you well know. And if, perhaps, everything has not been treated for a simple reason: it's because you didn't leave money in the country safes so that we could completely clean up the General Deposit Box situation. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Several audits have been conducted, as you know. The Banco de Portugal conducted four audits between 2012 and 2015. Could it have been done more? Perhaps I could, but I remember the words of Prof. Teixeira dos Santos when he said that anyone sitting on the bench of the government following him would not have time to sit so many were the problems he would face left by your management. Mr Duarte Alves, I also thank you for your words,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u101	What about serenity?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u102	And serenity. But I can also tell you that you have only one explanation of some of the questions you put here: is that you did not integrate the committees of inquiry, nor was you a parliamentary officer when they were in progress, because otherwise I would like to have you as a colleague to make the same demands, to claim the same explanations and not to be part of the blocking force that Left Block, PCP and PS did so that the truth would not be ascertained about what happened in the General Deposit Box. Maybe next time it's different! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u103	We moved on to the second round of questions. The floor is addressed to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u104	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, whether or not there is a serious investigation in Box depends more on the PSD than what the PSD imagines. The PSD may continue to come here to insist on the same false charges of cover, it may ask a thousand times because, after a year of operation, we have determined the closure of a parliamentary committee of inquiry and will always hear the same answer: it was because the Box was in the middle of a recapitalisation process that could question its future, and therefore we defend a forensic audit. You may not like this answer, it may be an answer that does not suit you, but it is true, that is the true answer, and that is why the Left Block has sent the conclusions of its participation in the commission of inquiry to the Public Prosecutor. Mr President, if you are careful to read, you will see, in these conclusions, the biased use, you will see, in these conclusions, the administrators appointed by the Socialist Party, you will see, in these conclusions, the favour of the BCP, you will see, in these conclusions, many of the conclusions that the PSD now draws, and will certainly be true. Mr President, I can also ask you why you have injected EUR 1650 million into the Box without ever asking for an audit, because a report from the Court of Auditors says that the Box did not have sufficient control in those years, because you have ignored reports from the IGF (General Inspection of Finance) that said there were inequalities that were not explained, because you have ignored warnings from the supervisory mechanism. And the PSD, which suddenly owns all the questions, still doesn't have the answer to these questions I now ask you. We can spend the next few months discussing this and it can even work out the PSD, because it prevents us from moving forward and creates a blockade. Or else we can do something else: we can recognize that today we have conditions that did not exist in 2016; we can recognize that there is today an audit with concrete data that no parliamentary committee of inquiry could obtain. And I think it is also good for you, Mr President, to acknowledge that all Members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance wanted that audit and, together with the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, participated in the request of the Public Prosecutor to send this audit to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u105	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u106	There was no blockade so that this audit could come to Parliament. And we can also recognize today that the Box is recapitalized and that it will be able to face a process of scrutiny. And we should not save anyone, no government, no administrator, in this polling process. Finally, Mr President, I do not think it is necessary to force any conclusion, because if the work is serious, the conclusions will be inescapable. And the Assembly of the Republic has already proved that it can have committees of inquiry with serious work, but this is a work that depends on all parliamentary groups and also on the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u107	For a question, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u108	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, you, at some point in your speech, said something very important: « What we are now doing and discussing could be done two years ago». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u109	There are six!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u110	And it is not indifferent to this course of time! Two years ago, when we had a committee of inquiry, we could, because the courts said that we were entitled, have had all the information that would allow us to work and draw conclusions in good time. What's the difference? The difference may be between the prescription or non-prescription of some of the responsibilities involved here. Therefore, who at the time has obstructed and now seems to have a different position on him will always have the responsibility of if any of these matters prescribing was because they haven't had the position they now have two years ago. But now is also the decisive moment for us to know the following: or we take the rest of the time that is left to finish the legislature to pass the blame on one side to the other, and we will basically be corresponding to the bad image that is outside Parliament, or we can take advantage of these six months that are missing to finish the legislature to counter this image and show that Parliament can be useful in fundamental matters. The country wants to know who was responsible for these favour credits, which originated the hole that originated in the General Deposit Box, and then called Portuguese taxpayers to cover this hole. Are we or are we not capable of responding to this challenge that the country makes us? Are we or are we not capable of responding to facts? Are we or are we not capable of responding to responsibilities? Are we or are we not capable of responding in the sense of channelling to the organs themselves the allocation of consequences to those who have had these responsibilities? That is why the CDS Parliamentary Group said from the outset that we would not exclude any parliamentary instrument. Last week, we called for a current debate because we felt that it was essential for the government to come to take a stand on this issue, because it was in complete silence. Last week the Government spoke and today the Minister of Finance has already been able to say that there have been serious management errors in the General Deposit Box that caused damage. It has already been worth this insistence to hear from Mr Finance's mouth what we have never heard in three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u111	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. Now, knowing that we are going to have, as we have always said we were entitled to audit the General Deposit Box, do you understand or do you not understand that the seat itself to deal with this audit and all this information is the seat of the parliamentary inquiry to conclude now what PS, Left Block and PCP, two years ago, have prevented us from concluding? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u113	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u114	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I thought it would be today—it is never late—that I would apologize to Parliament and the Portuguese for the behaviour of the Left Block, which has hidden the discovery of the truth over the past three years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u115	Mr. Deputies, we're not going far!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u116	But it's never late, Mrs. Member, and you'll have new opportunities to do so. And you know one more thing, Your Honor? When Mrs. Deputy or someone starts looking for explanations for a certain behavior is already missing, because it means you've made a mistake and you're trying to justify the mistake you've made. Mrs. Member, reality is what it is! The honourable Member can now argue the interests that you want, the national interest, the world interest, before allowing what you are now defending is done, but we have actually lost three years, and it was three years in which the Portuguese did not know what happened in the General Deposit Box, not only because of the responsibility of the PS and the PCP, but also because of your responsibility, and that will be on your back forever. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u117	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u118	Madam Member, the reality is that, in the previous legislature, four audits have been made!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u119	Are we gonna stay in this little debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u120	Repeat : four audits were conducted by Banco de Portugal : ETRICC ( Transversal Credit Wallet Impartivity Review exercise ), ETRICC 2, SAP ( Special Assessment Program, OIP ( On-Site Inspections Program ). They were made and their results are at Banco de Portugal, so you can't say that nothing has been done. They were made by the supervisory authority, which is the entity that must exercise its powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u121	You didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u122	You never questioned them during that term, and it is not now that you will begin to do so. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u123	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, the reality is what it is! We were working within a committee of inquiry to clear up the whole truth, it hurts the sick, about what happened in the General Deposit Box. Someone, for ideological reasons, for comradeship or for any other reason, boycotted this job...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u125	...and wanted to close this committee in a hurry so that the Portuguese and Parliament didn't know the truth. Are we in a position today to resume this work? Let's go back, then! Tomorrow? Afternoon? For the week? The faster it gets, the more time it takes and the more time it takes we don't get it back. The reality is what it is! The Portuguese want to know where more than 4 billion euros of their taxes were! You have the right to know that, and the government, who sought to hide that, no longer has any chance of escape! We'll know the truth! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u126	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the 20th-century researchers who discussed the issues of the quality of democracy, Robert Huggins, stressed that « the death of democracies probably would not result in an ambush murder, but before a slow extinction caused by apathy, indifference and undernutrition». A brief observation of contemporary reality, unfortunately, does not allow us to disregard the relevance of this quotation. Today, the consequences of disregard for the quality of institutions are felt and often more than that, the perception that citizens do not always correctly establish from them. Today there are many indicators that show that the times we live are not like those that the end of the twentieth century and the beginning of the twenty-first century used us, in which we believed in the vitality of democracies, in their enlargement to more states and in the progressive increase in the protection of fundamental rights. Today, in fact, the idea that the end of history was around the corner disappeared and came in time of history had the ability to perceive. However, we do not want to go through tremendous or apocalyptic readings and we want to emphasize precisely what is needed to do and what has been done to counter this feeling and avoid populist impulses that threaten democracies. Although many economic or social indicators reveal positive developments at the national level, at the local level, at the European level, even at the international level, the prevailing perceptions do not always show this reality. The warming of the crisis of the early century, combined with the survival of serious asymmetries in the distribution of incomes or opportunities, the erosion of the credibility of some institutions, also, of greater scrutiny, not always in the more balanced way, that the information society allows to realize, has created a perception of the reality that feeds populism, generates liberal democracies and allows the growth of extremisms in places where we would not like to watch. in this context, the requirement of weighting that all public decision makers should start in the public space, those who want to preserve democratic institutions, should be particularly demanding. in this difficult framework, it is necessary to strengthen the pedagogical intervention and not to give in to those who announce that everything is worse when reality is often far from getting worse. Take a fairly recent example of the data that came to the public this week about the Corruption Perception Index. The 2018 report, drawn up by the International Transparency Network, indicates that Portugal improved its position vis-à-vis the previous year. First, it rose from 63 to 64 points in relation to the elements assessed in the report. Secondly, there are 21 points above the overall average, which is about 43 points in these indicators. Finally, in 180 States evaluated, Portugal is virtually in the same position as 30. the place, with a slight change over the previous year, which was not the result of its position but because other States have improved its relative position. in this context, a report that shows that it has been worked and that the indicators have improved, did not lack the readings of the report that emphasized and distorted its scope. In the light of the data from a report on perceptions of corruption, for some entities what has been taken away from it was that it had stalled the adoption of measures and the fight against corruption in Portugal, contributing in the worst way to reflect reality and to help improve and maintain the reforms that are under way. We recognize that there are ways to go, we recognize that there are areas for which, for the first time, if improvements and changes are being made in the domestic legal order, we recognize that there are elements of the report of the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO ) of the Council of Europe, which are still to be implemented and we also recognize that there are seeds and a path that has been being traced very clearly since 2016. In fact, the very increase in complaints, investigations and even processes often reflects the wrong idea that there is an increase in the phenomena of corruption, when, in reality, what we have is an increase in the effectiveness of its repression, which may seem counterintuitive, but truly reveals how we view and how we have come to deal with these matters. I stress these aspects because perceptions today are almost as fundamental as the substance on which they affect. And it is about this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom I would like to have the opportunity in plenary, once again, to strengthen the importance of the work being carried out in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions and the centrality that parliamentary work has faced and has been facing since 2016. It may not have completed its work yet—it has also been the subject of criticism or even misunderstanding—but, in view of the extent of the resystemization, of the legislative amendment that is above the table and the volume of what is proposed to be done, it cannot end without proper auscultation, without the building of consensus and without the guarantee that the final result will be resilient and capable of reforming the institutions. With more than 20 legislative initiatives on the table, the final result will be as much better as we are able to offer a clearer and more demanding system, but effective application and easy understanding by citizens and positions holders. In fact, the Commission will carry out its 57th meeting today. the meeting, conducted numerous hearings of public and private entities, of personalities, promoted a conference, for the first time, on representation of interests and has already been conducting indexing votes on fundamental topics on the subject. Regardless of the detailed solutions we will reach at the end, the fact is that today there are majority and even consensuss that have already reached unanimity in matters such as the review of incompatibilities and impediments, the clarification of the framework for the declarative obligations of the incumbents of positions, the introduction of ways of valuing the parliamentary institution and safeguarding its prestige and the introduction for the first time of regulation of the matter of representation of interests. Avoiding generalizations and defending democracy against populism also means having the ability to change legislation to respond to individual cases that deserve to be denounced, without damaging the democratic system and institutions and seeking that those who want to feed on hatred against parliamentarianism or against institutions no longer have fertile ground for action. in this sense, the tasks we have before us and the final line we have to conclude, indeed, require respect from the Assembly of the Republic and members of this House and also commitment to achieve, with a sense of responsibility, a safeguard of the Republic and democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u128	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the Bureau registered four Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u129	Mr President, I respond to requests for clarification from the first two Members. Ladies and gentlemen and then the other two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u130	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the political statement he made on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, on a matter of the greatest importance, we have no doubt about that. Indeed, as you have sought to emphasize, and I believe that corruption is certainly one of the main enemies of democratic societies and therefore we must and must, as a Parliament, fight against the effective legislative and operational means within the framework of the rule of law. It is worth noting that in recent times important steps have been taken in this area. And I would like to emphasise that right now, for example, by recalling the recent legislation, which has been approved, on the limitation of bank secrecy, on the initiative of the Left Block. How many years have we put forward this proposal here? For how many years did your bench, the PSD, and the CDS put obstacles to the approval of what really, in good time, was approved in relation to the limitation of bank secrecy? But we still lack the necessary answers. I recall the proposal presented here recently by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block on the elimination of golden visas, which, knowingly, is an instrument highly desired by the perpetrators of corruption crimes to whitewash these crimes. We have not yet taken that step, but on our part we will not give up that step. Mr President, he called for the work being done in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions. We follow him, of course, in this underlining. Various projects are under discussion. I would like to remind you that the Left Block has adjourned projects covering, inter alia, the exclusivity of the exercise of the role of a Member, the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, the creation of an entity of transparency which, from an institutional point of view, reinforces the necessary fight in this area. The first question I would like to leave, Mr President, is whether or not the Socialist Party accompanies this proposal for the creation of a summarizing entity, which is the top of the "building" institutionally in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u133	I shall finish, Mr President, by asking one last question. He referred to the closure of the work of this Commission and I wonder whether the Socialist Party, like the Left Block, will endeavour to have a final decision by this Commission by March with effective solutions for combating corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u134	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u135	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, it was appropriate for you to speak. It is important that this issue be brought to discussion in the Assembly of the Republic until it draws attention to the evolution of legislation in our country on combating corruption and on the efforts that have been made, including at the legislative headquarters, to improve the transparency mechanisms of public life and political life. This is an effort that we must continue to make, but not to respond to populist reports or pressures, including reports that deserve us the greatest reservations about their quality and suitability. In fact, I believe that we should have some reservations as to the bombastic statements supposed to combat corruption which, in some ways, seek to generalize accusations and distort the reality of national political and social life, all the more so from organizations whose suitability is not very transparent either. We therefore believe that an effort should be made to strengthen transparency and combat corruption, not because of what is said there, but because of what we consider to be fair, what is appropriate and what is a fair requirement of the citizens, because we know that the enemies of democratic institutions will continue to slander and distort it, do what Parliament does. That is not what impresses us, we are impressed by the defence of what is right, and we believe that until the Commission which is currently operating could have taken a significant step, which is to have approved legislation aimed at criminalizing unjustified enrichment. [[PSD protests.]] This matter has already been discussed several times and, including, the CFP recently proposed in the Commission that it should be self-sustained so that it can be decided promptly and without the need to wait for the completion of other processes which will be later. They did not accompany us and Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, who is welcoming my intervention, could have communicated this intention to the PSD and the PSD could have supported our proposal, which you did not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u136	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u137	I would ask you to conclude, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u138	In conclusion, I welcome the opportunity for Mr Pedro Delgado Alves to speak. The CFP will continue its efforts to ensure that the work of this Commission has a positive effect and that it does not align itself with the populist pressures which are thus manifested to exceed but, on the contrary, to give them the proper response of a democratic institution such as the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u139	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u140	Mr President, if I may start at the very end, that is to say, by responding to Mr António Filipe's request for clarification precisely to emphasize that the issues have an associated complexity. That is why the question raised of, eventually, empowering the treatment of undeclared enrichment was not simple, since we want to build a coherent system in which the declarative obligations are the touchstone that will make this illegal work and therefore that empowerment could not be possible. It is nothing that moves us against a solution in accordance with the Constitution on this matter, but I disagree with the honourable Member in the following: I would not call the legislative initiatives of the PSD and the previous Government of the past legislature, because in relation to them the Constitutional Court, repeatedly and convincingly, stressed that they were unconstitutional and that they could not be accepted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u141	In reply to what Mr José Manuel Pureza said recently, of course, that we have a willingness to follow this proposal in a framework of constitutional conformity. In addition, we have put forward initiatives on undeclared enrichment and violation of declarative obligations, a fundamental part of this chess and these amendments that we are trying to introduce. With regard to the other questions which you have raised, on the same subject, on the issue of complexity. For example, with regard to banking secrecy, which you have raised, of course, that it is not a matter that is entirely at the discretion of the legislator to choose to build a regime by putting out the protection and safeguarding of other fundamental rights, because exercise is of balance between various positions. since then it has not always been possible to follow the proposals presented by the Left Block and, most likely, in the future, it will still not be possible if there is no proper adequacy and proportionality in the proposals. The final purpose of building balanced solutions, that seems to me to be the federative element and the element of balance. The same would be true of the matter of exclusivity. As is known, the Socialist Party does not follow the proposals presented; however, it stresses the importance of tightening the gap between incompatibilities and impediments, corresponding to what Mr.António Filipe said, and rightly, that it is the social feeling about its compatibility, but also the prevention areas, in which there should not be the simultaneous exercise of the mandate with, for example, the representation against or in favour of any public entity. Through balance and consensus, we will achieve more effective results. I am also responding to your question about the entity of transparency, of course we have already given a positive note—and we have already put forward proposals—and we are available for this purpose, because it is a simplification, pedagogical effect and it is precisely the populisms and those who want to take advantage of generalizations, which Mr António Filipe stressed well. What happens today is that it is easy to spread the idea that everything is wrong and it is easy to spread news, certain, which correspond to problems of corruption and lack of transparency, but which cannot be widespread nor can they pass the idea that all institutions are on the brink of collapse and that we are facing a situation of despair, as if we were at the end of a decadent Roman Republic. That is not the situation we are in! Public perception must be combated and the way to fight is to ensure that institutions offer legislative reforms that make it clearer for the citizen and more protective for those who perform public functions that this exercise of public functions is done with dignity, with conditions of exercise and with respect for what is dedicated to the public cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u142	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u143	Mr President, I begin by complimenting you and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and the Socialist Party for bringing this debate here today. Mr. Deputies, we think against the facts, there are no arguments! And if there is something that happens today, clearly in Portuguese society, it is that people and institutions are concerned about the phenomenon of corruption and are anxious to have more transparency. The Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP are government three and a half years ago and, therefore, when the Socialist Party chooses to come here today, to talk about transparency and corruption, what we were waiting for was to say what it had done in concrete, what concrete things it had done, so that there would be more transparency in Portuguese society and for there to be less corruption in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u145	And what did you say here? Nothing! In concrete terms, you have said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u147	There is a committee that has been discussing the issue a few years ago, but results, unfortunately, we have not yet been able to reach them, and there is the back of the medal: the government has not done anything! And the statement that you have made and all the debate that has been made has shown that. What do we have? We have, in view of an international report which has recently emerged, the Socialist Party says: "We are glad that we have gotten a little bit worse". You guys are glad you've gotten a little worse! Now, what we wanted was to have here is a government which, like Denmark, was demanding in its goals with regard to the fight against corruption, so that there is more transparency in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u149	That is what the Socialist Party and the Government of the Left are asking for; it is not that you come here with excuses from bad payers and try to disguise and distract people from those who are the real problems of Portuguese society. The lack of transparency and the fact that there has been no action by this government against corruption is a problem of this government and it is a problem in Portuguese society, as it is a problem that there are no assistants in schools, as it is a problem that citizens do not have the right to health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u150	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u151	I'm done now, Mr. President. We want it, whatever the people of the Socialist Party and the parties on the left who support it, are concrete answers to their problems, it is not talk! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u152	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to this House the issue of transparency, which is an unmistakable issue in modern democracies and Portugal is no exception in this matter. In fact, he spoke of the risks we have in this area, and I would say that Portugal is in fact not at the maximum risk, but the risk is moderate, is significantly moderate. So we have established in some indices, we are standing in others, and we are backward in terms of resources, so we need to do more and better. The CDS, since the first hour, has supported the establishment of the transparency committee and has always said that more than forbidding it was necessary to give transparency to the system, creating a clear system where everything that matters is in sight and is voteable, fiscalizable and punishable. That was always our motto, and it continues to be. Moreover, we presented a project to regulate lobbying, to know who talks to who and what they talk about, diploma that the Socialist Party later came secondary and I hope you will eventually support it. We have also presented projects on the registration of offers, to sanction with crime of disobedience qualified to not present statements in time... Finally, there are a number of questions that are on the table and that we urgently address, effectively. But more than to speak, Mr President, it is necessary to act and the PS has been very helpful to speak, but a lot of action has been done — indeed, it is the second time that you bring this issue to plenary; at least one year ago you brought this issue, but so far nothing has happened. The CDS is now, as it was two years ago, absolutely ready to approve all the rules on transparency and the Socialist Party must also be prepared to do so. As a Member of the House, we are all very tired and it was important that we move on to action this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u155	But more serious than that, Mr President, all that we do in the committee on transparency will be absolutely inconsequential if we do not provide the country with means — and that is what we lack. Much more than law, we lack the means to meet all the circumstances. And the PS has been absolutely unavailable to deal with the media. Mr. Member, it is still news today, as it was a year ago, that the PJ (Judicial Police) is completely impoverished and has no means to investigate, there are criminal investigations stopped due to lack of human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u156	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u157	I'm done now, Mr. President. So the question is simple: is the PS available not only to speak but to move on to action and provide the system with the absolutely essential means that currently do not exist? And it does not answer me, Mr President, I hope that the means have already been strengthened, as has been announced ad nauseam, because, as you know, and you know as well as I do, there is indeed no means necessary to combat corruption in the field. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u158	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Let me agree with a statement made by Mr Álvaro Batista that there are no arguments against the facts. So, let's go to them. Mr. Member, Law No. 83 / 2017 on money laundering, Mr. Member, legislation on controlling amounts that can be transported in cash, Mr. Member, legislation on reporting obligations to the tax administration and the banking system, Mr. Member, legislation on securities to the carrier ; Mr. Member, payment law ; Mr. Member, transposition of directives on judicial cooperation ; Mr. Member, legislation on the freezing of seized goods in the context of investigations related to corruption ; Mr. Mr., assessment of the GRECO report every year, which continues to show missing material, but also underlines all the steps taken further. So don't ask me what the Socialist Party or the Government have done without checking whether they actually did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The only example that was able to give in this debate was the reference to the past and the past, once again, has the stain of the declarations of unconstitutionality of criminalization proposals "to see", which are actually populists, are destructive of basic principles of criminal law and criminal procedural law and have so far resolved nothing, because they are not in force, precisely because they did not comply with what was essential to have ensured, which was the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u161	He also asked the honourable Member : what has been done? And Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, in a more elegant way, also asked the same question: then, what has happened since my last statement in September? Mr President, we have been working on the Commission, we have moved on to the Commission's votes, we have made numerous proposals for amendments with a view to building consensus and I would like to emphasize this in this speech. A short time ago, when I was talking about defending democratic institutions, it was in the sense of saying that everyone needed to defend themselves for democratic institutions, which we needed the commitment of all, even if we disagree on matters A or B, on proposals or on proposals x, and in this perspective we will not reach unanimity in any matter. But, essentially, in this debate — and I think that is the most important thing and, in some ways, that was the intention of my political statement — I want to emphasize that we are at the end of this Commission's work and that it is important that it produces a tangible result that effectively alters the existing legal framework and improves the situations for both citizens and those who perform public functions and who should, in fact, have access to a clear regime and a regime that guarantees the dignity of these functions. That is why, almost at the end of these work, it is essential that we commit ourselves to ensuring that, even in this legislature and to enter into force in the mandate which will start from October this year, after the legislative elections, and with the renewed mandate, the holders of this Assembly of the Republic and other public offices can benefit from the work, I would like to say, that it has often been, indeed, ambitious and perhaps even a work without parallel in the last 30 or 40 years when dealing with all these matters at the same time. Our readiness remains, and I think that the fight against populism is done precisely at Parliamentary level and with good legislative initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u162	For a political statement, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Shame, guilt and fear are the words and feelings that pass through the testimonies of all women victims of domestic violence and sexual crimes. This is what unites their stories and accompanies them for the rest of their lives. Almost 27 000 complaints of domestic violence - this is the second crime with a higher incidence in the category of crimes against people; 28 women murdered last year; more than 500 in the last 15 years; and more than 1000 orphaned children - is the most murdering crime in Portugal; an increase of 22% of rape participations in 2017; preliminary data from criminal police agencies for 2018 show that in Portugal, per day, more than one woman is raped. Every day, somewhere in this country, at least one woman is being raped. Every day! This is the reality that we have to answer. This is not about the foam of the moment, nor is it about legislating the taste of events.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u165	Violence against women, domination and oppression against women, being women, is a structural problem of our societies. It will not disappear like that by magic and it is our responsibility to respond to this problem. That is why we sit here in this Chamber. It is precisely to hear society, to face reality, to solve problems, to protect women, to ensure that they no longer feel shame, guilt or fear, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, shame and guilt should be what we feel every time we fail in this protection and every time impunity prevails.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u167	Those who think that the law has already protected these victims, who protect women and girls from sexual crimes and rape, who think that everything is very different from what was 20 or 30 years ago, who think it is normal that crimes of this gravity against people are less severely punished than crimes against heritage ignores that this is a structural problem, that is a gender crime, that violates the most fundamental human rights of women and whose damage has an unimaginable amplitude and leaves marks for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u169	Those who think that everything is better and that nothing needs to be changed despises the fact that, of the 404 convictions for rape in 2016, only 37% of those convicted served effective punishment and that, in cases of domestic violence, this percentage is even more shocking: of all existing complaints, 70% are filed and more than 90% of the cases completed end up in suspended punishment. Anyone who believes that the amendment of the Penal Code in 2015 has already resolved everything forgets successive judgments that do not judge a crime as a violation, because there was no violence or because the victim seduced and danced on the track before being raped by two men in a bathroom while he was unconscious; or who excuse the aggressor, because the woman was unfaithful; or who do not believe that a woman could be a victim of domestic violence, because she is young, independent and modern. 30 years ago, we had judgments that devalued a violation, because the victims « took the lead », entered the « cut of the Iberian male ». About 10 years ago, the country was shocked by a court considering that a psychiatrist who raped a pregnant patient did not exercise sufficient strength and she did not resist with sufficient determination to be considered a violation. Today, we have judgments that excuse the violation, because they consider that, and I am quoting, « The guilt of the defendants is lightened by an evening of alcohol and mutual seduction» or that « lawlessness is not high, because there are no physical harm or are small and there is no violence». Today, we have judgments that justify suspended punishment in cases of domestic violence, because the adultery of women is a very serious attack on the honor and dignity of man and because in the Bible it is said that an adulterous woman should be punished with death. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, yesterday, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy took a step in the right direction in deciding for the non-appropriation of the disciplinary proceedings brought up to Judge Neto Moura, as a result of its arguments in this judgment. The Left Block has always presented, continues to present, and does so at this time, solutions that respond to these women and that say the obvious: consent is the red line; if a woman is unconscious and someone has sexual relations with her, this is a violation;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u171	... violence cannot be a criterion for the definition of rape, because rape is already, by itself, an act of the most extreme violence;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u173	...to maintain this crime as a semi-public crime is to maintain the aggressor's power over the victim, especially when we know that these crimes are committed mostly in proximity relations. So this crime must be a public crime to protect women too. To recognize the obvious is to harmonise our legal system with the Istanbul Convention, to heed the report by GREVIO (Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) on the implementation of this Convention and to comply with what Portugal has committed itself to, and well, when it is ready to ratify this Convention. It is also not to accept that everything is the same and it is to demand that the Government break the deafening silence it has had and maintained on these matters. The Left Block won't fail these women! And will the honourable Members and the honourable Members continue to pretend that everything is different now or will they finally recognize reality and act? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u174	I'm asking the ladies. Members who, if they so wish, sign up for clarification. [[Pause.]] The Bureau records four requests for clarification by the PS, the CDS, the PCP and also the PSD. Mrs Sandra Cunha wants to respond first to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u175	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, this is a very difficult, very painful issue for all of us and, of course, the Left Block does not have the monopoly of defense of these women. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u176	We can disagree about legal solutions in relation to gender violence, rape crime, but we have different positions in relation to the configuration of the crime of rape or the crime of rape as a public crime or semi-public crime is completely different from digging a trench between those who are on the side of these women and those who are allegedly silent on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u178	That, purely and simply, is not true! That's not true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Government has given an obvious centrality to the issue of gender-based violence. A short time ago, we had the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality in 1. The Commission and the honourable Member have been able to hear you talk about this for a long time. We agree with you that the crime of rape must be reconfigured in order to comply with the Istanbul Convention. No, the work wasn't all done in 2015, but it was a good job and it was done well. It must be given weight to the question of non-consent, not to be demanded, as I said a few days ago, that consent be given, but that there be reference to how there is no consent. The reasons why the Socialist Party believes that rape should not be a public crime have already been brought, but today it is no longer pure and simply a semi-public crime. As you know, it has already been changed and the Public Prosecutor's Office can already continue the procedure under certain circumstances. Madam Member, I would like to end the following question: do you not think it is fooling people who are listening to us to give them the idea that, through law, we can change considerations made by judges and judges in their sentences?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u179	O Mrs. Deputy! For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u180	The law cannot change that, because the law, as it is, no longer allows a judge to invoke the Bible to justify a woman’s behavior. This part of the foundation is unconstitutional and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy was well, although very late.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u181	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u182	I hope, however, that the process is not prescribing. Therefore, it is possible to make laws that prevent all and any judge or judge from making sexist or misogynistic considerations is not true. It's absolutely a lie! We cannot do that; we can improve the legislative framework, but we must also do training, education for equality, education for citizenship and, above all, training of those on the ground and in the administration of justice, a work that is being done and that does not happen, by changing the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u183	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sandra Cunha, first of all, would like to welcome you, of course, by bringing the issue of gender violence to our House and telling you that, not having the Left Block as the only issue, obviously the concern about the phenomenon is unanimous and we have all taken action in this direction. The truth is that numbers, as I have said, fear not to take off and persist dangerously. The changes that have been made are punctual and the truth is that they have remained stable for a decade. For a decade now, despite the successive efforts of all governments in this area, there are things that are not actually working. Stability, in this matter, is frightening. The number of occurrences is still very high, the numbers of deaths are still frighteningly large and, unfortunately, in 2018 they have increased again, having the convictions comparatively a relatively low number. Therefore, the conclusion is obvious: there is something in the system that is working wrong and we need to look well at this reality. There is one question that we know is absolutely obvious: the system does not work well either up or down. As far as the operation is concerned, the issue has been identified by all and still now Mrs. Isabel Moreira spoke about it. There is a need for more training, greater awareness and, in this regard, I would like to welcome the decision of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy for having run the institutions and condemned what is condemned. I did not pronounce myself on the court decision itself, I do not have to do so, but the considerations made in that judgment were considerations and censorable opinions which should not be included in it. That is why the Supreme Council of the Magistracy has been well in this area and I would like to mention it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u186	But the main problem, in our opinion, besides training and awareness-raising, which are absolutely urgent, is in the forefront, is in prevention. All of us here remember a case that happened last year, in which a woman went to the police sometimes without notice, addressed social security so many other times, and no one in the system was able to identify the danger. That woman just died. There is lack of proximity police, lack of training of agents, lack of victim service rooms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u188	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the CDS was the first to propose these measures which, stubbornly, do not emerge from the role. Madam Member, my question is very simple: what can the Left Block, which supports this government, do more to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u189	We're doing it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u190	Because talking about the problem insistently without nothing happening is exactly what cannot happen, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u191	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u192	So if you support this government and you are with this government, do more. That's your role! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u193	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u194	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u195	Mr President, nobody has the exclusivity of these issues, and I am glad that it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u197	Discerning legal solutions is perfectly understandable and perfectly acceptable, and that is exactly what democracy is doing, but for that, it would also be necessary for such legal solutions to be placed on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u198	Let us introduce ourselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u199	And those on the table are the ones the Left Block introduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u201	This is what we have been doing, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva: insisting and presenting the proposals against which your parliamentary group voted, the proposals on domestic violence and the proposals on rape.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u202	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u203	What we are talking about here is precisely to harmonise our legal system with the Istanbul Convention, which, in fact, Portugal undertook to comply with it when it ratified it. What has been done was a partial transposition of the Istanbul Convention into our legal order and what remains to be done is what enables the domestic violence aggressors and the rape aggressors to continue to be unpunished today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u205	The law does not do everything, but it is a fundamental tool for changing reality and for changing society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u207	I am surprised that Mrs Isabel Moreira, as a lawyer, says that the law does not serve to change society, does not serve to change reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u208	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u209	Change society and change reality! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u210	The problem is not just the sexist and misogynistic arguments in the judgments, already in itself a huge gravity, the problems are not just those! The problems are the impunity with which the aggressors get out of these processes, and this is from the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u211	Today, it's not like that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u212	Training? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential, but the truth is that training, judging by what the judicial actors tell us, already exists and so far has not solved anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u213	There he is! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u214	Prevention is essential, too. Therefore, we must work on these three aspects: prevention, training and amendment to the law. Anyone who does not want to acknowledge that there is a problem, when the Istanbul Convention itself and GREVIO themselves say in the report that Portugal is not complying with the Convention, not accepting this reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u215	That's not true, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u216	...is not wanting to see that there is a problem or not wanting to change things. So if we all want to change things and if we all agree, then let's get hands on it and do it! The projects of the Left Block are currently in the field of expertise, waiting for the contributions and support of the initiatives of the other parliamentary groups so that we can respond to this problem and thus be able to protect these women once and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u217	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sandra Cunha, I welcome you on the subject of the political statement you have brought here. I believe that no one can say, in this House, as has been said, that he is not concerned about the problems of sexual violence, domestic violence or all forms of violence against women. I don't think it's serious that some people view them in a lighter way than others do. In fact, we can differ with regard to solutions. The CFP recently stated this at the time of the discussion of the Left Block proposal, and understood — let me tell it very borderlinely — that the essential way to combat this phenomenon of sexual violence and the crime of rape was to strengthen criminal frameworks. You will find consistency in the PCP argument because you understand that the fight against sexual violence, the fight against domestic violence, the fight against all forms of violence against women is done exclusively and with a centrality that the Left Block, by choice, wants to do on the basis of criminal frameworks. The CFP has said so for a long time, and we have said so when the Istanbul Convention is being implemented. The implementation of the Istanbul Convention, which has now been applied, has meant a certain amount of rest of consciousness for many people. How the Convention applies to national legislation was enough to ensure the protection of the rights of victims and to ensure the response that the State has an obligation to give to the victims. We said at the time that the implementation of the Istanbul Convention was an important step in legislative improvement, but one thing was to discuss the conditions for law enforcement and another was to discuss the conditions for the protection of victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u219	Everything is important!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u220	Madam Member, let me tell you that, for the CFP, more important than strengthening criminal frameworks is the existence of public services supporting the victim that do not exist today and that require, firstly, an effective response to prevention, both in the area of monitoring and in the field of effective combating all forms of violence. I do not think it is acceptable to centralize and reduce the debate to the question of strengthening criminal structures. In fact, we said here that understanding the fight against phenomena of violence especially through this environment is to devalue a component that is exclusively important in the prevention, awareness-raising and training of professionals. We can discuss here what role the public school can and should have in terms of the contents of the curricula on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. So we warned, when the PSD and the CDS ended with the training for citizenship, the impact that this also had on the awareness of work on prevention. Madam Member, you can continue to count on the CFP in condemning all forms of violence against women, but you will not have the CFP in centrality given the effective strengthening of criminal frameworks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u223	You now have the floor to Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u224	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has already said this and reaffirms, today, its total commitment to combating all forms of violence, especially violence against women, precisely because of the vulnerable condition of being women. I would like to greet the Left Block for bringing this matter here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u225	We're always here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u226	We understand that this is always an unfinished matter, we know that there is still much to do, we recognize this, but also, Mrs Deputy, for a long time it could have been done, particularly in the last three years, in which repeatedly hand-strengthened against domestic violence, but in concrete, little or nothing can be seen. I would like to tell you that the Left Block cannot come here « wash your hands», through political declarations, through legislative initiatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u227	Every time the Block approaches a problem it is here an air current! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u228	...assuming that you have no responsibility in the conduct of government policies, because you have! It does, indeed. [[Protests from BE Member Sandra Cunha.]] The Left Block is an accomplice to the policies implemented by the Government and is an accomplice to the policies that the Government should have implemented and not implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u229	So let's work together!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u230	Madam Member, I would like to say that we do not agree at all with the question of public crime, because we all know that there is a recent report from a group of experts from the European Commission that points out failures to Portugal — that one of the failures is, exactly, the phenomenon of revitalization to which the victim is exposed throughout this process and that it is aggravated by the qualification and nature of public crime that the Left Block wants to give him. Moreover, Mrs De Clercq: the worsening of the penalties — and we have often had this debate in the Commission — has no effect, because, and the honourable Member has mentioned it in the few complaints submitted, much of what fails is up. Failure to file a complaint...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u231	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u232	... and often fails the correct procedure. And failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u233	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u234	I will finish, Mr. President. We studied a case in which, for 98 days, a woman asked for help from the system, the system couldn't help her, and it didn't have to do with any worsening of the penalty, because there wasn't even conviction...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u235	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Member, the diagnosis has been done for a long time and the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team has told us that there are concrete recommendations to the services...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u237	Then move on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u238	... and that the government that you support can and must do. I ask the Left Block what, in particular, they have done so that the government, once and for all, implement these measures that are concrete and that meet the needs of the system, which has been found to fail. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u239	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u240	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira and Mrs Rita Rato, it seems to me that violence against women, victims, women and girls, domestic violence, rape and various sexual crimes deserves much more than the partisan we are here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u242	It is not about exclusivity, nor any monopolies. It is first the Left Block to consider that this is an important matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u243	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u244	... is material important enough to be discussed in plenary. Mrs Sandra Pereira, regarding the argument of rape as a public crime being a victim's revitalization, of course we must be careful with the entire process and the way it is done, but these were the same arguments used at the time of discussion on domestic violence, when it was consecrated as a public crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u246	They were exactly the same arguments. And today, more than a decade after domestic violence has been considered a public crime, no one has ever said it was a bad option and it was a bad solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u247	All right! Well remembered
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u248	Nor are we talking here, nor are we focusing this debate solely on the question of criminal frameworks. The centrality of the debate must be placed in the way the judicial system, and also society, systematically devalues violence against women, devalues sexual crimes, devalues rape, aggressors excuses and blames the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u250	The problem is not the arguments itself, the problem is the decisions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u251	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u252	... are the sentences. That's the problem. Is there a need for public services to support the victim? Obviously more public services are needed, more support to the victim. Do we need training? Training is needed, yes, in judicial bodies — for judges and judicial officials — in schools, in public services, everywhere. Is prevention necessary? There is also a need for prevention, with national campaigns in schools and campaigns at national level for the population in general. But this is not the other way around that it is also necessary to change the law. It is also necessary to change the law and it is necessary to ensure that a violation is an act of violence by itself, which, without consent, is an act of violation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u253	It's always violence!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u254	The Left Block, already in this Parliament, presented projects for which Mrs. Deputy and her bench voted against. We presented projects relating to domestic violence, we presented projects relating to courts, we presented draft amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u255	They were unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u256	... and now we have presented projects...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u257	Unconstitutional projects we do not approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u258	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u259	... about the violation to harmonize with the Istanbul Convention and we see no other banks supporting these projects or, even, taking the initiative in relation to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u261	This is what the Left Block has done, and that's why the Left Block says, and it will continue to say, that it does not fail these women. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u262	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u263	What we want, with the political statement that we have brought here today, is to try to understand whether the honourable Members are. Members and Members of Parliament are also in a position to do something and to protect these women once and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u264	You have the floor for a political statement by Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS held its parliamentary work in the Braga district yesterday and yesterday under the motto « Europe : cohesion and security ». I'll try to condense them into six notes. First, we started with a visit to a large textile industry, a sector that was able to turn the difficulties around, stop depending on the internal market and be export leader in Portugal. It is a sector which, in the face of the uncertainty of Europe's economic growth — aggravated by Brexit — and in the face of the ongoing trade war, feels the abandonment of the government, feels the asphyxiation of the highest tax burden ever, especially for companies that employ and create wealth, and feels that private investment, especially the industrial base, is the most forgotten of the government's forgotten priorities for the economy. In short, it is a sector that feels a government that prefers to satisfy its interest groups rather than pull the Portuguese economy out of the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u267	Second, we also visited the hospital in Braga, which several independent evaluations place as the best hospital in Portugal, a hospital that efficiently serves the health needs of about 1 million Portuguese. It is a hospital of the National Health Service, built and managed by private people, who provide a public service of quality, with a capacity greater than that of many hospitals managed by the State. In fact, and only by the fact that it is managed by private persons, the Government wants to terminate the contract without having any technical, financial, medical or social criteria to advise it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u268	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u269	The Socialist Party, with its companions on the road, for pure ideological blindness, will subject the users of the hospital of Braga to the seizures, the deinvestment, the dismissals and the lethargy to which the hospitals of the National Health Service are currently condemned. Let us be very clear on this matter: between the ideology and the health of Portuguese, the government chooses ideology, subjecting many families to inferior quality health care. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It may be very interesting to try to shine on any of these internationalist forums, but it does not serve as a comfort to those who need a doctor, to those who need an operation or to those who need a treatment in condition. Thirdly, we have heard entrepreneurs, farmers, European officials and specialists on the next Community framework. The concern about the loss of cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy is great. It is a total contradiction that Portugal, which continues to have a GDP ( Gross Domestic Product ) per capita below the European Union average, risk losing cohesion money, when countries such as Luxembourg, Austria, Finland, Belgium, Sweden and even our neighbor Spain maintain or rise the value of these funds. It is of no benefit to us to have a Prime Minister who fills his mouth by saying that he is very Europeanist, but that he then cannot even protect Portugal's most vital interests in Europe. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Fourthly, we have addressed the issue of security, protection of people and goods, civil protection and road prevention, all areas in which the government is failing and Portugal is worse. We have a government that diminishes the authority of the State, which distrusts and does not know how to deal with security forces and services and which has failed. It failed in such a way that it even led the CDS to present a motion of censure, when it abandoned many Portuguese to its fate, in the great fires of 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u270	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u271	Fifthly, we have launched a challenge for all parties — the challenge I reaffirm here — to conclude the debate on justice reform. Some nine months ago, the CDS presented concrete proposals, which are waiting for the left's proposals and have so far not entered this Parliament. Today we are calling for a debate by March which will allow us to debate and vote on our proposals and all the other proposals that have come in the meantime. Finally, we talked about the concerns of the Portuguese. We do not agree to criticise the government for its mistakes and failures and, faithful to our principle of being a step forward and of being an alternative to solutions, we have already presented our proposals, especially at a time when the government gives so many signs of disorientation and fatigue. right now, I don't even know if we even have a government. It seems another group of people who meet once a week and, even at that time, they do not seem to understand or have the ability to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u273	The Minister of Agriculture does not understand the environment; the Minister of Agriculture does not understand the economy; the Minister of Culture does not understand the general directors appointed by him; the Minister of Higher Education does not understand himself; the Minister of Health does not understand what it is like to be in a government and the Prime Minister, that, no one understands what you are doing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister of Agriculture has already disallowed his colleague on the Environment, who, on a pilgrimage, argued that Portugal should import more and produce less cattle, not realizing that this not only causes a greater environmental footprint, but also, at the same time, produces unemployment and less wealth for Portugal. In the face of this, the Prime Minister is silent. The same Minister of the Environment, alarmically and irresponsiblely, says that gas oil cars will lose their value, not realizing that most families and businesses in Portugal are owners of diesel cars, that many companies and many jobs in car trade depend exactly on these cars and even seem to know that in Portugal diesel cars are produced. The Prime Minister stays silent. The Minister of Culture has achieved another feat: to appoint and exonerate the Director-General of Arts in less than 5 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u274	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u275	It must also be the fastest position in the history of the Public Administration in Portugal, a sort of Olympic record for the short distance. The Prime Minister, predictably, was silent. The Minister of Higher Education, who defended the end of the tips and 15 days later defended the need for incentives to finance universities, accuses those who did not understand it as "levianty". in this case, although the Prime Minister was silent, under the penalty of being, too, accused of being a Levian.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u277	The Minister of Health does not understand that she cannot disregard everything and everyone — doctors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u278	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u279	... nurses, former PS ministers, political opponents and, even Mr. President of the Republic — finding it normal that a law of health bases, essential for the stability and continuity of the national health system, is approved only with the votes of the left and the extreme left. For this reason, on our part, the option is clear: to prepare an alternative to a government that is bad...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u280	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u281	...and that you missed the chance. Our obligation is to be the alternative, and that is what we are doing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u282	I'm asking the ladies. Members who wish to ask for clarifications to be entered. [[Pause.]] Three Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, how would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u283	I will answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u284	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u285	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr Pedro Mota Soares on the issue he brought here and which relates to the implementation of the parliamentary days of the CDS-PP, which is always an important moment of the parliamentary groups and also of the parties, because it is a moment of reflection that allows us to produce good ideas for our political and parliamentary work. Mr President, I especially congratulate you on the themes of these days that have now brought us: the companies, health, security, justice and many others that you have also spoken about. These are all issues and matters on which the government has failed in turn. So here is the great relevance of your political statement. If there are areas where everyone should be concerned and in which everyone should be called to do much better than what the government does is exactly in the business area. There is no policy aimed at this sector, which was, in fact, totally disregarded in the State budget. In health, we all know what happened. There have been many interventions by the PSD, the leader of the PSD bench, in relation to the health sector, which is more degraded than ever. In the security sector, no longer needs to be wasted, we all know what happened with Tanks, with the following fires, with Borba, with the INEM helicopter (National Institute of Medical Emergency ), and so on. In justice, sir, it's true, I said, and I sign below...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u286	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u287	I conclude now, Mr President. The CDS has already put forward some proposals in the area of justice, but as you will have to recognise, if there is a parliamentary party and group that has had a total primacy in this area is the PSD, which has also delivered a structured document to all parties to produce and contribute towards improving the justice system in Portugal. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask you the contrary: is the CDS prepared to discuss this matter of justice with the PSD and, of course, with the country and with all parliamentary groups? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u288	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u289	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I am grateful, of course, for your kind words. In fact, our great concern is to be with the Portuguese, their concerns and, therefore, we address such issues as economic, health, security, Europe, cohesion funds, issues that have a great deal to do with the day-to-day Portuguese and in which this government is clearly failing. It is failing by inaction, by disorientation and disorientation and is failing because, whenever there is a difficult issue, the Prime Minister chooses to be far away, not to speak, to pass the responsibilities over the Ministers, who often do not seem to know what they are doing. We have a minister who defends the end of the tips and who, 15 days later, says that the tips are, after all, essential. We have a minister who appoints a Director-General to five dorsa later exempting. We have a minister who joins ministers in not even respecting the division of guardianships. This shows, above all, that this government is tired, disoriented, at the end of the cycle, and that an alternative needs to be created. That's what the CDS has been doing. For this reason, about nine months ago, we presented to Parliament to start a debate, because this is where we will have to discuss and vote on the proposed initiatives, a legislative package on the area of justice. We are hoping that the left, which has talked a lot about this matter, will present other initiatives. For our part, we follow up with what the PSD has been doing and hope that it will also bring this legislative package to Parliament and suggest that, in March, a debate on the area of justice can be held in time to close this reform. It is a subject where the government has also failed, and critically; it is a subject which has a great deal to do with the rights, freedoms and guarantees of each of the Portuguese, but which also has a huge impact on our economy. We don't know it, we hear it every day when we walk on the street, and obviously we need to change. That is what the CDS is here to do, i.e. to present its alternative. Certainly, the PSD proposals will also come to this debate and we will then have the opportunity to discuss it in concrete terms. What we want now is to mark a number of areas where the government is flagrantly failing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u290	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u291	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, you spoke in the speaker's gallery about the parliamentary days of your party and the set of visits you have made in the Braga district, highlighting three sectors. He spoke in the textile sector, an effectively strategic and fundamental sector for the Braga district, but also for the country, and also said they visited a large company. Sure! Obviously! We didn't expect anything else. But the honourable Member has forgotten to mention the enormous difficulties faced by the textile sector, namely the micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of these sectors of the Vale do Ave which you have visited. But, of course, they don't count for the CDS-PP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u292	Don't you count? Oh, my God! What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u293	In fact, it was the PCP that, about a month ago, brought these very serious problems with which the textile sector, particularly its micro and small entrepreneurs, faces itself in the valley of the Ave and also of the Cávado. These, of course, were forgotten by the CDS! The honourable Member also spoke of the excellence of the hospital in Braga. It has forgotten to say, Mr President, that the excellence of the care provided there is due to the professionals who are there, who are professionals that the Mello Group, who has come to praise and that Mrs Christian Assumption so vehemently praised during the two days when she was in Braga, battered and does not respect her rights. It was important that they had listened to the workers of the PPP of Braga. It was also important that they had listened to the users of the hospital in Braga. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Did you hear users with multiple sclerosis, HIV AIDS, hepatitis C, whom the hospital denies and ratios drugs? You've heard the patients who are referred, diverted...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u294	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u295	I conclude, Mr. President. Did you hear the patients who are diverted from the PPP because the treatments are too expensive and are going to do them to the Hospital de São João or to the hospital de Santo António in Porto? You didn't hear those! [[CDS-PP protests.]] What you are really interested in is not listening to and defending the National Health Service, the public management of such important hospital. What moved you was to be there, next to the Mello Group, to defend the ideology of business! The PCP will defend workers, users and SNS! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u296	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u297	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, who is also from the Braga district, thank you for the question you have asked me. Mrs Deputy, first of all, we visited a company that is a big company. And you know why it is? Because it gives more than 800 people a job. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They are more than 800 families who, for their merit, for their effort, for their work ability, have a dignified life. That company does not pay minimum wages. But more: that company, which is a big company, around it, gives jobs to many mini, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And we talked to these too. And you know what one of these entrepreneurs, a very small textile-area entrepreneur, told me, Mrs. Deputy? That has eight people providing services in your company and that you received a letter in January saying that the contributions you have to pay for social security will increase 100 %. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u298	This small entrepreneur is very concerned to know who he pays at the end of the month: if to the workers, if to the state. That's because you can't pay both. Perhaps, Mrs Deputy, who talks about the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, should go to the valley of the Ave to talk to them, because it is not one or two, there are many situations of people with enormous difficulty. Mrs Deputy, regarding the hospital in Braga, I want to tell you that our first concern in the National Health Service is with the patients, with the users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u299	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u300	And, as you know, this hospital serves nearly 1 million people with high efficiency and quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u301	1 million and 200,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u302	But I did not run away from the question of workers. The honourable Member knows, as I know, why we spoke to the follow-up committee — that committee that the government refuses to receive — that today the concern is that the workers, when they finish the contract, go to other hospitals and that they do not want to stay in the SNS. If Mrs. Deputy is concerned about the working condition at the SNS, perhaps she should go to the Hospital de São João, perhaps she should go to the Hospital Padre Américo, in Penafiel. [[Laughter and protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] See what the workers burnout is. See what the conditions of health professionals want to do their job and cannot.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u303	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u304	With these the Portuguese Communist Party is not concerned. Neither with these nor with the users of the SNS, who are, unfortunately, the ones most in need of support today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u305	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u306	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, first of all, would like to welcome the CDS on behalf of the Socialist Party for its parliamentary work and also congratulate it on some of the themes and ideas produced on these days, noting that the ideas that the CDS produces in the opposition are interesting and productive, which, in fact, leads me to say that there is a greater value for the country in having the CDS in the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For example, the CDS, in opposition, always has a commendable concern about the effect of the security forces. But when it is in government, as happened last time, the security forces' effectiveness has declined by 1100 elements. This is because the concern, momentarily, will fade away and only resume when they return to the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same question arises with the functioning of the courts. In the debate on the justice which you have just mentioned, I have had the opportunity to comment that, for the courts to function, judges in particular are needed, and that, with this government, two judges who entered the first three years of the legislature have entered the whole of the previous legislature. This figure also corresponds to the maximum training capacity of the Centre for Judicial Studies ( ECJ ). So, once again, there is a concern that the CDS has, above all, in the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me say, Mr President, that when you talk about security concerns, you could say that any internal security report in this Parliament has lower and better numbers, in terms of serious and violent crime, than any report in the previous Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u307	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u308	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u309	It is noted that I do not think there was a problem of security or serious crime and organized in the previous legislation. There is a trend that, fortunately, remains in these Acts, which is that of Portugal being generally a safe country. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out to you that, a few weeks ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u310	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u311	...we had the opportunity to discuss in this House the proposals for reform of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction that the government brought to this House, as it had promised. So when you said that there were no proposals on this side, you were clearly distracted on that day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u312	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u313	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, let me just tell you something very quickly: I also prefer the ideas of the Socialist Party in the opposition rather than those of the government. But it's not for me, sir, it's for my children. Usually when the Socialist Party is in the government takes the country to bankruptcy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And, on behalf of my children, I would like to be able to leave a country a little bit more free, with fewer debts, with more freedom on the international stage. Having said this, Mr President, let us, then, look at the issues you have raised. First, we started with the issue of security. Perhaps, Mr President, you do not have the perception, but when the CDS addressed this issue it did not happen the situations that happened in the country, with a huge gravity, such gravity as it called into question the prestige and dignity of the security forces that the Government that you support did not have the ability to defend. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u314	Neither the Minister of Internal Administration nor the Prime Minister had the ability to effectively restore the confidence that the Portuguese have in the security forces and services, because this Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party itself always distrust the authority of the State and the security forces. But, fortunately, a party like the CDS is here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u315	In opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u316	...to, in this sense, defend the forces of authority that every day risk their lives. [[PS protests.]] Second question: do you want to talk about means? Mr, today there are fewer effective members of the Judicial Police than they existed in 2015. Is that what you think of as strengthening the means? Are you happy with that? I am not staying, Mr Commissioner, and we must certainly be able to go much further. We already realize it's not with the Socialist Party! Third question: I am glad that there is a socialist who thinks that justice is all right. Okay, there's at least one socialist who thinks justice is okay! But the rest of the country doesn't think so, sir! When you go to a court, when a company needs to charge a debt, when you realize what the jurisdiction of the courts is, we realize the enormous difficulties that exist, and on that point what you have to say to the country is that "we have already presented a small change to the administrative jurisdiction"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u317	It is significant for the functioning of the courts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u318	Mr President, do you realize the weight, you realize the angle that is, at the moment, for the Portuguese economy to be years and years waiting for a sentence, to be able to execute a sentence that is often essential for a company? I understand that you don't understand anything about this, and that's exactly why you think justice in Portugal is fine. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u319	It is always the same arrogance that characterizes it! [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u320	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to make its political statement. To that end, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Work with rights must be a reality for all workers. Therefore, it must be a reality for the workers of higher education and science. However, the CFP once again denounces that we are still far from the full and effective recognition of work with rights to scientific workers and higher education. on the side of the problem that prevents the dignity and valorization of these workers are policies of successive governments PS, PSD and CDS, which are now converging in their deepening, now in the postponement of the resolution of the substantive issues that affect state laboratories, research units, universities and politics. Precautionaryness in science and higher education has several distinct origins. First of all, the linkage of work — cases of term contracts, contracts on the margins of careers and, in the majority, grants without any labour rights —, all this to meet the permanent needs not only of the institutions, but of the National Scientific and Technological System itself. Secondly, the positioning of the institutions, which put researchers to give lessons without any monthly remuneration; open scholarships with little duration and which do not even allow the pocketman to adhere to voluntary social insurance; and do not allow a pocketman to be for more than six years, afraid of future processes of regulating precarious links, sending them, but hiring others for the same functions for more than six years. Thirdly, the current legislative framework, with a Law on the Financing of Higher Education and an RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions) clearly inadequate to the development needs of the country, which are deepening the marketing of knowledge and knowledge and the attack on workers' rights. Fourthly, the lack of a true national scientific policy and a consistent framework of a stable and permanent political strategy of thematic priorities and funding, in which the action of the Government is developed, articulating the various institutions and entities that make up the National Scientific and Technological System. Fifthly, the organic model in force. We see the Foundation for Science and Technology, which is guided by delays in the publication of results of the resources submitted, of the first payments. What happens to the 2017 Stimulation Competition for Individual Scientific Employment is a clear example of this: there are still no definitive results, nor are there any contracts under the projects that were submitted in 2017. Sixthly, chronic underfinancing in science and higher education. The blanket is short and it is not enough to say that there has been a bet in this area, as the government has said. We are far from what is necessary for the proper appreciation of public services of the greatest importance and comparison with the tragedy for the people and the country, led by PSD and CDS with the pact of aggression in the last government, cannot be an argument nor so little a final point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u323	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has to answer the questions of who is faced with a daily attack on their rights and who sees the situation drag on endlessly. The Scientific Employment Observatory says that of the 3188 requirements submitted by teachers and researchers only 8% were in favour of regularization. Also in general careers we are not in the country of wonders, because only 54% of the cases analyzed were found to be favourable. There have been constant reports of PRVPAP contests ( Extraordinary Regularization Program of Precarious Links in Public Administration ) for opening, attempts to reverse favorable opinions, exclusion of requests, improper application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, including the lack of inclusion of public funds pockets in many institutions. There have been protests, both institutionally and on the street, of workers in various institutions such as Porto, Algarve, Lisbon, UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro) in Coimbra or Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the various state laboratories are also debating themselves with numerous difficulties. Workers with a precarious link to the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) are about 35%. The Norwegian research vessel left the Doca de Pedrouzos in the morning of January 24, for another research campaign within the IPMA mission, with a scientific team in which more than 50 % are precarious workers, including one of the campaign leaders. How is this even possible at this stage of the championship?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u324	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u325	Problems in the National Scientific and Technological System worsen with other attacks on rights, such as the lack of integration of university readers, the proliferation of invited teachers and with disrespect for the advocated in the State budget at the level of career progression and its paid reflection. As for this latter aspect, there can be no different solutions for equal situations. There can be no harmful higher education teachers in relation to other higher education teachers. There can be no equal work considered differently, the pretext of the autonomy of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u326	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u327	The CFP argues that the most fair regime must be applied, which it considers most favourable for all workers, avoiding inequalities. It is solely the responsibility of the Government of the Socialist Party, in accordance with its powers, to issue clear guidelines for all higher education institutions on the application of the rule on remuneration progressions, ensuring the necessary budget allocation that responds to the increase in naturally resulting charges. We know that the decisive factor for all these situations to achieve a good port is the organized, consequent and persistent struggle of workers in defense of the rights they rightly claim. But the CFP will not stop doing its part to solve the problems, valuing workers and defending public services. We will continue to confront the Government and demand that it fully assume its responsibilities in these cases. We will question the government for every specific case that comes to the knowledge of the CFP — this is our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u328	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u329	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u330	Of course. You have the floor, therefore, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Passos, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u331	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, thank you very much for the subject that brings us today, which is a very expensive subject for the Socialist Party and, therefore, over the past three years, we have seen the implementation of strategies to promote the enhancement of science, the rejuvenation of our scientific capacity, the strengthening of the internationalization of the national scientific and technological system and the valorization of qualified and scientific employment as never before in Portugal. The honourable Member is bringing us data that is no longer up-to-date. According to what was published by the Scientific Employment Observatory on January 22, this year, on Tuesday last week, the latest update, we observed that 1814 competitions for doctors covered by the transitional standard are validated, which includes 27 competitive procedures in state laboratories, currently being authorised all the contests and finding the competitive procedures concerning the IPMA being published. A total of 400 contracts are awarded for doctoral researchers under the first invitation to tender for institutional applications. The results of the 2017 competition have already been published for individual applications of doctoral researchers, and 500 contracts have been awarded. The evaluation of research and development units is under way for 400 doctoral research contracts for the period 2019 - 2022 to be allocated within the framework of research and development units. In the 2017 competition for research and development projects, support for 1618 new research and development projects is guaranteed, with a total of around €375 million. As regards PREVPAP, 1558 requests were submitted for higher education teachers and some 94% had already been analyzed. With regard to doctoral researchers, 1630 applications were submitted and 41% of these were already analyzed. With regard to the hiring of employees in general careers, the ongoing process resulted from the analysis of approximately 2300 applications submitted, of which 96 % are analyzed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u332	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u333	... and for which some 64 % of the cases were decided on by regularization. Do you still think there is a lack of true national policy in view of the most recent events last week? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u334	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u335	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to Parliament. I would like to bring to consideration a concrete aspect of scientific employment, which has to do with the 2017 competition to stimulate individual scientific employment, the results of which were known in 2018 and which opened 500 vacancies. of these 500 vacancies, 50% were attributed to the junior investigator category. If we extend the analysis to all potential contracts for doctoral researchers, only 10% will be for senior researchers, who are those who lead teams, those who engage in national and international investment that sustains several research units, those who guide several doctoral students. These researchers, during the Government of the Socialist Party, benefited from the Science Programme 2008 and then, during the PSD/CDS Government, from the FCT Research Programme in 2012 and 2013, and are the very same researchers who, with this curriculum, now see their contracts terminated without further reply or any proposal from the guardianship. The merit, internationally recognised in high-scrutiny competitions, seems to have now been secondaryized by this government as a criterion, giving priority mainly to the cost through the option of hiring junior researchers. On 27 February 2016, when Minister Manuel Heitor entered into office, he gave an interview to the public in which he said « The FCT Research Programme will evolve into more flexible contracts ». I ask Mrs Ana Mesquita whether this flexibility, which is indeed the absence of contracts, is the lack of response, is in fact, and in a sense unemployment, whether this is also the option that the CFP advocates, to the extent it supports this government, or whether it will be one of the issues, as I said here, that will put early on the protection to realize whether or not it makes sense that those who engage and, in any way, support the National Scientific and Technological System are without any employment contract. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u336	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u337	Mr President, Mrs Ana Passos, it is not worth trying to overwrite data from other realities, because indeed the data we have presented are very real. I would like to say more: where can the fact that workers with precarious links be rejected, for example, 35 %? This is another given that did not bring it recently, but I bring it now—in fact, it brought it; it brought it how I can bring, for example, from the LNEC (National Laboratory of Civil Engineering), 30% also have precarious links. Madam Member, I would like to know where the problem of these workers is. A very short time ago, we received a message from LNEC workers telling us that they had no scholarship and no work, that they had no remuneration and no income. And PREVPAP doesn't work! Are you telling me that this isn't a real case? It's real! The problem is that in higher education institutions, many real cases of higher education continue to happen. The problem is that there are many pockets that are currently out of income, there are many pockets that do not know what is going to happen, there are contests that are not being opened and, look, until I tell you something else: there are rectors who have asked to review the approval of PREVPAP cases, in relation to requests that have already been approved. «Alas, alas, alas, that now we want to walk back». The problem, Mrs. Member, is that this does not seem to have an end to those who live this precarious car. The problem is that we still have a system that is based on a stock exchange vessel, a contract term, whatever it is, and the problems are never solved again. And what is true, Mrs Deputies, is that it is unforgettable that the rate of approval of PREVPAP requirements for special higher education careers does not exceed 8 %, and that is a shame! It is indeed necessary to put an end to this joke with the lives of people! That's what people are demanding. It is that, indeed, a solution is found that enables them to work with dignity and to see their rights respected. Responding to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, of course, that the CFP defends a solution that allows all workers who respond to the permanent needs of the National Scientific and Technological System, whether at the level of the institutions and research units, whether at the level of the polytechnics and universities, to be properly integrated and to be entitled to a contract of employment. But we also do not differentiate between those who are already elders and those who are juniors and we do not say that some deserve more and others deserve less. All those who meet and satisfy permanent needs have the right to a stable bond, have the right to see their labour rights fully respected. That is exactly the problem we have to solve. We believe that the Socialist Party must go much further in the timely response to these situations and to all the workers who are currently experiencing the drama of not knowing what the future will be, of not knowing what a contract is, of not having their contributing life regularized. These pocket workers for decades will not have a decent reform, and this is another problem we will have to face. It is therefore necessary to provide urgent and timely solutions for solutions and for workers' rights to be respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u338	Mr Luís Monteiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u339	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party and Mrs Ana Mesquita for bringing a very important issue which is on the political agenda of higher education, science and the country: precisely, the problem of precariousness and employment stability in the scientific system. At the beginning of this legislation, we have taken important steps in combating precariousness. One of them was the guarantee of parliamentary assessments and the discussion we made here of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 on scientific employment. We also had a very important moment, which was the guarantee that PREVPAP, a program to regularize precarious links in Public Administration, was going. at the end of 20 years, we again had a process throughout the Public Administration and in the business sector of the state that gave a long-awaited response. The truth is that in higher education and science we have witnessed, in the last two years, a systematic blockade that is operated between principals and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education. There is no block in the two-party committees of PREVPAP if rectors and Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education do not vote exactly in the same way. In other words, it is now the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education to go after the lead to PREVPAP by the rectors, now it is the rectors to thank the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education the same lead in this PREVPAP. As I said, only 8 % of special careers have deserved a positive impact on PREVPAP. Who exactly are we talking about? We're talking about researchers, professionals, who have been out of the last Stimulus competition for the Scientific Job, but who have 20 and 30 years of career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u340	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u341	I will finish, Mr. President. We are talking about people who saw, last week, the exit of the rules of dismissal in the Stimulus competition to the Scientific Employment and these same rules say that the disembarkation is now made by birth date, or by submission of the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u342	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u343	The Left Block today asked a question to the Government on this matter, which is, in fact, almost a joke about what has been a highly competitive sector and which is not worthy of respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u344	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u345	Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Ana Mesquita if she follows this concern of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u346	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u347	Mr President, Dear colleagues, the CFP brought the debate, in its political statement, a role of problems, indeed real, almost 10 questions, ranging from the CTF to the financing contest, passing through chronic sub-financing, careers, PREVPAP, readers, progression... Finally, questions on which the PSD could no longer agree to the diagnosis that is made from the point of view of what the failures of this government are in relation to higher education and science policy. The CFP also says that there are long-standing issues, which are always true, particularly with regard to precariousness. It is also true that for the PSD the State must be a good person, which means that it cannot demand from the proven what does not meet with respect to those who work for it. What I think is not clear to the CFP is that this government that promises and does not meet, this government that, at a stage of economic growth, created expectations and achieved results in some situations worse than what we had during the period of the troika is supported by the CFP. The question we put to Mrs Ana Mesquita has to do with the following: how can we answer some questions that are on the table? For example, we now have some 1500 formal contracts. We had two major flags in this government, which were PREVPAP and scientific employment. As far as scientific employment is concerned, this Parliament has had the opportunity, as has already been said, to help solve legislation which clearly was not capable, but the government has remained perfectly incompetent, not only in the development of legislation, but also in its implementation. As for PREVPAP, zero formalised contracts; individual support, institutional support, R & D projects (scientific research and technological development), R & D units, zero formalised contracts. Therefore, it is the transitional regime that is responsible for these 1500 contracts in a government that had promised 5000. Many promises and only 1500 contracts concluded!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u348	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u349	I conclude now, Mr President. The question I put is how, for example, with regard to PREVPAP, the CFP will do, and it has adopted a budget which has no financial implications. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u350	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u351	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Luís Monteiro and Mrs Margarida Mano for their questions. I'm going to try to answer it together because there are questions that cross. I would like to say that the laws of convergence in the PreVPAP ( bipartite evaluation committees) remind the laws of convergence in the Assembly of the Republic. It is that, when it is on the left, it is always for the benefit of the workers; when it is not, we see the damage. Convergence between PS, PSD and CDS is always harmful to workers and public services. Even considering another perspective, if the PSD gave its 89 Members the role that the CFP plays with its 15, at this time the problems would all be solved! And they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u352	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u353	And they are not because often the PSD contributes precisely to deepening the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u354	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u355	For example, in the State Budget for 2019, the CFP presented a plan to update, modernize and strengthen the means of State Laboratories. We could have had this measure approved! But we didn't have because neither PSD, CDS, PS, say it for the truth, didn't make it work!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u356	After all, who supports the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u357	They could have made it possible and at this time we would have more suitable means for the State Laboratories. That was very important! But we can go back to what was the positioning of the PSD and CDS in other situations. When the CFP presented initiatives for the dynamization of the National Scientific and Technological System, who voted against? PSD and CDS! When the CFP presented measures against the dismantling of the National Scientific and Technological System and the defense of the jobs of scientific workers, who voted against? PSD and CDS! Therefore, do not now realize that they are very concerned about the precarious situation, because when we go to practice, we see that PSD and CDS ignore the reality, which is the despair of the workers. Actually, to solve the problems, yes, the PCP is here! Yes, the CFP is here with its intervention, with its initiative, with its action and to demand that the government solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u358	Our 15 Members are worth more than your 89 Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u359	I would also like to say to Mr Luís Monteiro that we believe that what has now been revealed in relation to those who are, finally, resilient, not to say anything else, criteria of disembarkation obviously deserve our concern. We will accompany this same concern and we will not stop intervening on this matter. I would also like to say that the CFP considers it necessary to make a real policy for science, technology and higher education, and this requires many measures: investment in higher education and science; strengthening funds for research and development; valuing State Laboratories; fundamental reform of the Foundation for Science and Technology; repeal of the Statute of the Research Fellowship and Replacement of Fellowships by Contracts; amendment of the RJIES (Legal System of Higher Education Institutions), ending with the founding regime and defending democracy in higher education institutions; new financing law; and, yes, the integration of all workers with precarious links to science and higher education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u360	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda on political declarations. Before we move on to the second point, Secretary Pedro Alves will take note of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered into the Bureau the Proposal for a Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Change Law No. 17 / 2014 of 10 April, establishing the basis for the policy of planning and management of the National Maritime Area, which falls to 7. the Commission, with connection to 11. the Commission. Bills Nos 1086 / XIII / 4 were also entered into the Bureau. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( amends the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1087 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Ensures accessibility for persons with reduced mobility to heavy passenger vehicles ( amendment to Decree-Law No 58 / 2004 of 19 March 2004 ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1096 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Nationalisation of TTCs is carried out down to 6. the Commission. Finally, the draft Resolution Nos 1948 / XIII / 4 were added to the Bureau. a ( BE) — By regulation of work in call center, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1949 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centres operator, strengthening of rest, rest, hygiene, health and safety at work, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1950 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government suspend the effectiveness of the Military Assessment and Merit Regulation of the Armed Forces, which falls to 3. the Commission, 1951 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Training plan in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1952 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The defence, qualification and promotion of the public inland waterway transport service in Transtejo and Soflusa, which falls to 6. the Commission, with connection to 10. the Commission, 1953 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the signing of a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflusa and the approval of a multi-annual investment plan 2019 - 2022, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1959 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the improvement of the public transport service carried out by Transtejo / Soflusa, which falls to 6. the Commission, with connection to 10. the Commission, and 1960 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the location of the future neonatology and care unit in pregnancy and in the birth of Coimbra on the grounds adjacent to the Hospital dos Covões. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u362	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second item of the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 250 / XIII / 2. a ( Portuguese Federation for Life ) — Life has dignity, together with Resolution Projects Nos. 1802 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will, in the main media and in all public services with places of service, including authorities, and 1941 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP and to intervene in the debate, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u363	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss a petition and two draft resolutions, one of them from the CDS-PP. I would obviously like to begin by complimenting the more than 14,000 petitioners and their representatives today. The petition All life has dignity was presented about two years ago. My colleague Vania Dias da Silva was the coordinator of the working group that was formed and the report that was presented. And we obviously want to remember, at this opportunity, what the CDS has always said, without tibias and clearly, in this matter: for us, all life has dignity. The protection of life is the central value of our society and the one in which all human rights sit. For us, dignity is an intrinsic value to the human being, regardless of the conditions in which it is found. And, obviously, dignity and freedom are central values by which the CDS fights, always and always, by referring to and underlining that they do not assert themselves in opposition to the protection of the right to life, which, I insist, is a central value for us. The petition presented here also mentioned conditions relating to the question of the health of the elderly and the well-being and support of people at the end of life. The CDS believes that it is necessary to support people who live in the best conditions when they are in situations of great vulnerability, as is the case with the end of life, and we have proved this. We are proud to have presented the draft law on the basis of palliative care, as well as the bills on the vital will and rights of end-of-life patients, with this result in a law approved in this House in July 2018, following the presentation of this initiative of the CDS. Therefore, our journey speaks for itself, regarding what it is to be next to the vulnerable people in the end of life, knowing clearly that we could have gone much further and done more, particularly in strengthening palliative care—and we welcome the NAP, by presenting here a draft resolution, with many of the measures already proposed in this House by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u364	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u365	For us, the question of the vital will is one more of these measures in order to strengthen the dignity of people in the end of life. We would like to introduce this initiative today, because unfortunately the Government has not complied with the resolution adopted here too on the need to disclose the vital will, and since unfortunately it is not more than 23 000 Portuguese who have made the registration. Now, in our view, the vital will is an instrument, it is a more valuable tool to strengthen autonomy, dignity, support for people who are in situations of vulnerability. So we will continue to fight, as we have done so far, for putting forward initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u366	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u367	I shall conclude, Mr President. I recall here that since 2016 we have been talking about the status of the caregiver and we are going to present an initiative in this area, because this government has not made the issue of vulnerability and end of life a priority and the Portuguese know that they can count on the CDS in this regard. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u368	To present the draft resolution of the NAP and to intervene in the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u369	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. In Portugal, there is insufficient structural and professional coverage, with deep regional asymmetries at palliative care level. We know that there are 382 beds in palliative care units, when international recommendations point out that we would need 768 beds. And 8 of the 43 hospitals, hospitals or local health units in mainland Portugal have no intra-hospital support team in palliative care, and the conditions of operation of existing teams are also unknown. There are regional asymmetries in the distribution of 25 community support teams in palliative care, with districts without any team and others with rates exceeding 100 %. Finally, the number of health professionals and their working time is well below the objectives set out in the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care in Portugal. Thus, it is essential to strengthen human resources in the area of palliative care, in its various types. It must also bet on the creation of pediatric palliative care services with strong home support, ensuring the follow-up of children and families throughout their entire life course.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u370	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u371	It is also essential to strengthen mourning support offices in palliative care services, as well as to strengthen the training of all health professionals in palliative care, particularly in pre-graduate training. Finally, the status of informal caregivers should be approved, giving greater security to those who devote their lives to caring for others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u372	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u373	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to welcome the petitioners here who are being represented and to remind us that the petition was introduced in the Assembly of the Republic in order to combat a legislative process that was under way, aiming at the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death, in accordance with the terms and conditions under which the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the PAN had proposed. This context is factual, it is perfectly lawful, but this is the context. And, in this context, I would like to add that this petition is asked not to be legislated and to reject any project that goes towards decriminalization. Now, I want to be frank, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, in replying that, on our part, we will assume our responsibility until the end, we will not discharge any responsibility. That is our obligation. We must legislate — that is the perspective I have here to defend — in order to increase the space of tolerance in Portugal. And this broadening of tolerance implies full respect not only for the dignity of those who choose to have an end to life in suffering, but also for those who choose a end to life whose suffering is softened through the administration of palliative care, although this person is fully aware of the consequences that this can bring to his relational life. And it also implies full respect for those who choose to have an early end of life because, quite rightly, they do not want to bear the degradation resulting from either of the previous two hypotheses. So let us expand the space of tolerance in our country. It is in the name of tolerance, of the fundamental principle that all these choices have dignity, that the Left Block has been on the front line of the proposal to decriminalize assisted drug death. And it is on behalf of the tolerance that we will take this proposal, in the framework of the next electoral process for the Assembly of the Republic, and that we will again bring this proposal to the decision by this House. We will not resign from this responsibility because this is what people like Laura Ferreira dos Santos, João Ribeiro Santos and João Semedo demanded of us. And that is exactly what we also need so much, so many people who want to have full dignity, to the end. [[Congratulations from the BE and the deputies of the PS Isabel Alves Moreira and Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u374	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u375	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should also like to begin by congratulating all the signatories of this petition, especially those who are present here, to request this prompted by the Portuguese Federation for Life, and in particular to comply with the work done by Mrs Vânia Dias da Silva. I would like to make my own words to Mr José Manuel Pureza about the context of this petition, which, of course, appeared lawfully, as it was said, at the time we were discussing three bills of law in order to decriminalize the drug death assisted in certain circumstances. Tomorrow, we'll talk about palliative care, because it doesn't seem to us that the themes should be mixed up. In the petition it is read that « euthanasia is always a murder supported by the State ». It is also read that « solidarity, vulnerability and weaknesses are fighting with social policies» and it is requested that « legislate in order to strengthen and protect the objective value of human life ». We speak of "old and disabled" and, perhaps forgetting that the death penalty was abolished in 1867, we ask that "any proposal which goes towards conferring on the State the right to have or support the elimination of human lives" should be rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u377	It is clear from the petition that they want not only to prevent the possibility of democratic approval of the decriminalisation of euthanasia, but also to repeal, as they have already tried, the IVG regime (voluntary termination of pregnancy) in force. They're in your right. The petition was widely discussed, with very rich auditions. And we, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, maintain the right to combat misinformation, which takes away moral and ethical dignity, as John Semedo said, at the debate on the decriminalization of euthanasia in special circumstances, by defending it to murderers of people only, vulnerable, elderly or disabled. We reiterate that we defend the primacy of the patient's decision, whose autonomy must be attested, and therefore ask for the political honesty that does not mix what has already been presented as an attack on the elderly or the disabled. There is decency in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u379	The movement favorable to assisted death, born in 2015, with people on the right and left, believers and non-believers, with the support of doctors and so many others, grew and the choice of PS was that it was embodied in a bill debated and plunged democratically. We will return, precisely because all lives have dignity. And we will once again say that « Each and every one is concerned if it is reasonable to come to the request for help to die from a patient — who must be a bigger person, in a situation of extreme suffering, with definitive injury or incurable and fatal illness — be punished with imprisonment». We'll be back! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u380	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Initiate intervention with a greeting to the petitioners, in particular those present, but also to all those who have subscribed to this petition. Associated with the appreciation of this petition are two initiatives, one on palliative care and the other on the vital will. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic states that « Portugal is a sovereign Republic, based on human dignity(... ) ». And it is precisely human dignity when we talk about access to adequate treatments and health care and, in these, palliative care. According to the World Health Organization, palliative care should, among others, promote relief from pain and other disruptive symptoms, help the patient to live as actively as possible to death, help the family cope with the disease and accompany her in mourning. To pursue such desires, teamwork is essential, a multidisciplinary team to meet the needs of patients and families. We do not deny what has already been done in the area of palliative care in Portugal and in particular in the National Health Service, but the reality is far from meeting those that are the identified needs, the real needs of patients and families. Palliative care, such as the other health care provision, is for the CFP a responsibility of the State and should be ensured to all citizens who need, including, of course, children and adolescents. That is why we have put forward concrete proposals, as happened last October, aimed at strengthening this important response. We realize that the answer must obviously go through the strengthening of the number of beds, but it is also essential that we pass through palliative care to the household. Strengthening home teams in primary health care is essential. It is important and essential that the internment units and the in-hospital home teams should also be strengthened with sufficient human resources, ensuring the safe allocations to meet this multidisciplinary approach that we consider to be central. We also proposed that telephone support should be provided in home care so that patients and family members can access advice and guidance in real time. Also in this area, we have concrete proposals for informal caregivers, and it is very important that an informal caregivers support network is developed. We must not forget that there is indeed much way to go about training professionals in palliative care. It is essential to work on the path of awareness of the use of early identification tools for patients with palliative needs. This is the compromise we have once again made here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u382	For an intervention, Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u383	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the petition « Life has dignity», which has already entered here for more than two years. I welcome the more than 14,000 citizens who have subscribed to it. This petition appeals to our reflection on one of the greatest dilemmas that lie before humans — the limits of life. PSD is a personalist and humanist party for whom life and freedom are supreme goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u385	Human being is always an absolute value, an end in itself, that cannot be instrumentalized in the service of any fundamentalism, more or less selfish, more or less materialistic. We have the humility to recognize the high complexity that the issues of life and death associate. If birth represents the happiness and joy of life, sickness and death require dignity and respect. This petition calls on us to reflect on sensitive issues of human freedom, some of which are already supposed to be resolved, such as the condemnation of therapeutic obstination, others whose controversy exists in our society, namely euthanasia, in which we have also had a debate in this House, in which there was freedom by the PSD to act in conscience. The Portuguese Constitution considers in its Article 24. the, which « human life is inviolable», and admits, as well as referred to by Prof. Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira, that in case of incurable disease, the person may oppose artificial prolongation of his own life. We also welcome the initiatives of the CDS and the PAN, which join this discussion, and which aim, respectively, to recommend to the Government that it promote a campaign to disseminate the vital will and strengthen palliative care. The PSD Parliamentary Group also presented a draft recommendation on this subject, which will be discussed tomorrow. We understand that strengthening palliative care should always be the starting point for any discussion or reflection on the dignity of the end of human life. For PSD, support for end-of-life patients should be assumed as a country design involving all families, society and the state. The Basics of Palliative Care Act, approved in the previous legislation, is far from being concrete, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The government provides a few hundred beds, when we should have reached the thousand. In addition, few responses are asymmetric within the country. This failure results in several facts. It is enough to see the various proposals that exist in this Parliament, but also, above all, in the suffering that families experience in their daily lives, seeing their loved ones suffer. That is why we want to fight, so that people do not suffer and are supported in a dignified way. Therefore, the PSD sees this as a national design that should involve everyone, society, government, families. We're here to fight for it. The PSD will not rest until citizens suffering from serious or incurable disease have guaranteed their right to end-of-life care. For that, everyone must be called to cooperate. We do not share centralist policies which, because they want the State to do everything, refuse the collaboration of families and the third sector, in particular the Mercy and the IPSS ( Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u386	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u387	We think it would be good for the State to do everything, but unfortunately, the State cannot do everything. That is why it is important for society to be involved, when it wants to be involved, but above all for people to be supported as they deserve and to have a dignified end to life, that is, in fact, our goal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u388	At the end of this debate, we will enter the last item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 419 / XIII / 3. a ( Ana Rita Ramalho et al.) — Planning of human resources in the medical sector in Portugal together with, in general, the Resolution Projects n.o 1607 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government quickly conclude the negotiation process of the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 1942 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Human resources planning in the health sector. To present the PSD draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u389	The petition concerns « garlic» and your project is about « bugs»!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u390	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, she is very anxious but she will have to wait. It's just a little bit more, we explained why. We welcome the petitioners and the two recommendations to the Government, one presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group — the CFP could also have presented an initiative — which have a common object, that of human resources policy in health, or, better, that of the lack or complete absence in this Government of a human resources policy for the health sector. For the PSD, an adequate human resources policy in health is a fundamental condition to ensure the realization of the right to the protection of the health of citizens. Without planning health resources it is not possible to satisfy the access needs of the populations, nor to guarantee the quality of health services, especially those that are part of the National Health Service. Without planning health resources the existence of qualified professionals in sufficient numbers is not guaranteed nor adequate coverage of the national territory in terms of health services. In fact, that is what we are talking about, an impossible, non-existent planning for the whole health system. There is no national record, and thus we do not know how many are, where they work, in the public or in the private sector. We do not forget that these professionals perform a relevant social function in the service of people and the community. It is therefore serious the instability that the health sector has experienced in the last four years, in which successive strikes have demonstrated the growing lack of credibility of this government. They are doctors, nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, health assistant technicians, among many other SNS professionals who were forced to resort to the strike, tired of inconsequential negotiations with a government that does not honour their promises, nor the commitments it has made. This is an example of the increasing number of doctors excluded from access to medical care courses, the drag of nursing career negotiations...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u391	They have no responsibility! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u392	... the upheaval, Mrs Deputy, of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, who were so concerned about it a few years ago and on which I do not hear it now, to which the Government intends unilaterally to impose a 'cash' on the career—that is exactly what it did at the meeting of the last Council of Ministers—and also the health assistant technicians, for whom the Executive delays to recognize again the right to a differentiated career. The result of this lack of strategy and the incompetence of human resources planning in health is, in view of everyone in our country. The SNS is deteriorating and weakening, and almost only the sense of duty of health professionals has prevented the complete functional deterioration of the public system, definitely compromising the Portuguese right to health protection. By the PSD Parliamentary Group, we advocate strict, effective and efficient management of existing human resources in the health sector, especially in the SNS, but we no longer believe that this Government is capable of ensuring competent management or any management whatsoever. The already mentioned diploma that the Government approved in the Council of Ministers last day 24, regarding the career of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, therefore confirms our worst wishes and makes this draft resolution that we present even more timely.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u393	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u394	I will now finish, Mr President. in this project, the PSD recommends that the Government assume a position of respect and cooperation with the representative organisations of these technicians, that it honour the commitments it made in 2017 and that it ensure equity criteria for other careers with the same requirements. The way of voting on this project that the PSD presents today and which we discuss will be crucial for the country to know the degree of submission of left-wing parties to this degovernment of Dr. António Costa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u395	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u396	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting the petitioners. According to the 2018 Spring Report, the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems, it is not possible to know exactly the number of professionals working in the field of health in Portugal. This situation is justified by the fact that, in regulated professions, the nominal registration of qualified professionals is mandatory, being made by professional orders or, in its absence, by ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), reflecting this register only which professionals are authorized to exercise rather than those who are effectively in operation. Moreover, despite the collection of information in the National Health Service allowing nominal counting in public services, such information does not exist for the private sector, a situation aggravated by multi-employment and the fact that autonomous regions perform their own accounting. The current information on the availability of human resources in health does not allow us to define in a completely reliable way the workforce that the country has, nor does it plan which it will need in the medium and long term. Knowing that the implementation of a strategy for human resources in the field of health depends on this information, we propose that the national inventory of health professionals be created, which includes data on demographic and professional characteristics, performed activity, modalities of contraction, absenteeism and mobility, and an independent body should be commissioned to reflect on the definition, sources, collection, treatment and use of indicators that make up this inventory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u397	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u398	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the more than 6000 subscribers of this petition which, with all reason and legitimacy, have requested what should be a common and elementary practice, i.e. the existence of a human resources planning in the medical sector in Portugal, and with which this initiative of the NAP is combined. Indeed, this concerted strategy of human resources in health in Portugal is absolutely necessary. It is a pretension more than timely and essential so that we can provide adequate health care to all Portuguese. From the outset, there must be reliable data on these same human resources in health in Portugal, and this, in fact, as mentioned above, does not exist. The CDS has long said so, and we have had the opportunity to confront the government on several occasions with the various numbers relating to human resources and their contracts. All these numbers that were presented are contradictory to each other. We have already come to the strange situation of having the previous Minister of Health present some numbers, the Minister of Finance presenting others and the Prime Minister of Finance others, all of them different. This cannot be the transparency, it cannot be the credibility we have in Portugal to manage human resources in such a sensitive area. Therefore, as requested by the petition, it is essential to create a mission group, an evaluation committee to carry out a serious and rigorous lifting of human resources in this area, not only about doctors, but also about other professionals. How many were actually hired not only for the SNS but also for other sectors? The government, for its part, has to answer this question clearly and detail how many doctors, nurses, operational assistants, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, psychologists, nutritionists, in short, how many professionals are, and where, at the disposal of users, in our country. With regard to medicine, and responding to the specific question of the petition on doctors, we want to know how many specialties are, where they are, whether internal or assistants, how many specialists are and what area they are. Are they in the SNS or other sectors? How many doctors have retired between the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2018? Have they all been replaced? Do we have the capacity to replace them? Will we have a chance to know how many will be reformed in the coming years? Of course I do. From this survey it is mandatory to plan properly and act accordingly, to anticipate failures, to know how to fix doctors and health professionals where they are most needed in territorial terms and in terms of specialty and to give this information to students through appropriate consultation and an articulation with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u399	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u400	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is about expectations that can be lost—and are, in many cases, not only by the government, but because of the lack of information available. And here is the example of the PSD initiative on the career of senior diagnostic technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u401	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u402	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, it is a right to assist them. An immediate intervention is needed, and many have already been the claims submitted along with a request from the President of the Republic to intervene. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u403	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : A public petition and two draft resolutions are discussed in this debate, in particular the one presented by the NAP, with similar objectives — the planning of human resources in health. This public petition was signed by more than 6000 citizens and has as first subscriber the president of the National Association of Medical Students ( ANEM ). We all welcome not only the initiative, but also the request made by this House of the Republic to set up a working group or committee in which they intend to participate. Reminding us of the numerous times when the PSD and the CDS criticized the Ministry of Health for the establishment of working groups to assess certain health situations, today are civil society and medical students who come to tell us that, after all, we have always been on the right path. The NAP aims to create a national inventory of health professionals. Now, this inventory has been implemented since 2015, being developed a system of information and data transmission between professional orders and the various entities that work in the health area. More than human resources planning in the field of health, it is also important for us to distribute these resources in the national territory. Portugal has indeed geographical inequities and inequities for medical specialties. It is essential to look throughout the territory, identifying imbalances in the distribution of doctors and specialties and to know the reasons for these imbalances. If the international ratios tell us that we do not have a shortage of doctors in Portugal, then we have to understand why there are regions in the country where competitions remain desert despite the financial incentives and others for doctors and specialties to be fixed in these regions. Recognizing the effort that has been made to pick up doctors in the interior, in order to fulfill the generality and universality of the National Health System we have to go further and deeper than simple planning. It is essential to evaluate distribution imbalances, it is essential to plan, but it is also essential to make the system of equal health throughout the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u405	Mr Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet Ana Rita Ramalho and all the petitioners here who are present in the galleries and who, at the time, were the ones who had responsibilities in the ANEM. In your name, I also greet all students and all subscribers of this petition. It is true that this petition focuses on the planning of health professionals and, in particular, on the planning of doctors for Portugal — and there we go! — but this initiative does not forget and does not fail to address issues that are of great and legitimate concern to medical students who, year after year, are prevented from achieving their legitimate aspirations and expectations of access to specialized training for all. We have heard here today the PSD is very concerned about this, but we have forgotten to say what responsibilities it also has in this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u407	What about Mrs. Deputy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u408	It was with the amendment introduced by PSD and CDS-PP in the medical boarding system, also continued — it is true! — by PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u409	And for the PCP, that approves the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u410	... but when the PCP presented here proposals for changes to the health care system, the PSD converged with the PS, leading to the proposals of the PCP, which would solve the problems of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u411	The honourable Member stood up and dropped the State budget. That's what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u412	It is true that they also address very important issues such as the reduction of training capacities in the National Health Service. Students well know the reason for this decrease in training skills: it was the massive output of professionals who removed training skills!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u413	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u414	There were bad concentration decisions, service closures that led to this decrease. I would like to stress the need, stressed in this petition, for human resources planning, for concern that the CFP accompanies. In fact, the PCP was the only parliamentary group that placed in its draft basic law of health policy and the Health Bases Act, as a fundamental principle of the definition of health policy, the definition of human resources planning, but also of the technological means necessary to provide health care to the population. No more project or proposal includes this dimension. In the CFP proposal there are also clear concerns about the training of health professionals, in particular doctors, both in initial training and in postgraduate training.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u415	The honourable Member has already exceeded the time set.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u416	Mr President, I conclude by saying that we will continue to fight for better training for health professionals so that everyone can have access to specialized training, because that is what allowed Portugal's advances in terms of medical care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u417	To conclude the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u418	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the more than 6000 petitioners, many of whom are present in the galleries, who request a planning of health resources in Portugal. I begin by saying that we agree on the need to plan resources, especially professionals, in health and in the National Health Service in Portugal. We have said, therefore, that it does not make sense to have so much lack of doctors — recognisedly! — and at the same time, we deny specialized training to hundreds and hundreds of newly licensed doctors. It makes no sense to have 500 000 users without a family doctor and in 2016, for example, we did not allow access to the specialty to 200 newly licensed doctors. It makes no sense to have lists for consultations due to lack of specialists and in 2017, for example, we denied access to the specialty to 350 doctors; or, in 2018, we denied access to the specialty to about 700 newly licensed doctors. We therefore proposed and approved in the State Budget for 2019 an extraordinary competition for access to the specialty, which is due to take place in 2019. It should happen to add vacancies to the specialty and ensure that Portugal forms more doctors specialists, doctors who are missing in the National Health Service. Thus, the Left Block will of course require that this contest be implemented and implemented during this year. But health planning is not only at the medical level. Doctors are obviously important, but planning is not reduced to doctors. We speak of nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians (SDT ), operational assistants, etc. There is a PSD proposal on superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians that should be mentioned. I was going to say that the PSD project « hit the post », but it was next to the post », it was quite near! The problem is not to conclude the negotiation process — it has already been unilaterally concluded by the Government! — the problem is that the government's proposal is bad, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u419	Yeah, yeah! You have to tell them that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u420	It is not useful because it places 97 % of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians at the base of the career. It doesn't work because it shuts down the career time of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u421	Tell them that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u422	That is why it is not enough to say that a process must be completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u423	That's not what we say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u424	We have to say that we need to do another process. We could have solved this problem in the State Budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u425	Then they could! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u426	For example, in the State Budget for 2019, the Left Block proposed a change to the TSDT career law decree, where it guarantees that all the time of service was counted for the transition to the new career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u427	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u428	But the proposal of the Left Block was plunged with the votes of the Socialist Party, which counted with the complicity of the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[PSD protests and BE counterprotests.]] But the discussion of the State Budget for 2019 is there, now what matters is to see what we do! Interest we are not left for draft resolutions, that nothing solves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u429	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u430	I shall conclude, Mr President. I wanted to present a challenge to this Assembly of the Republic. When the decree is enacted which the Government has already passed in the Council of Ministers, we will present a parliamentary assessment to make amendments to that decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u431	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u432	That's very good.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u433	What we are asking is whether the PSD will follow these amendments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-30.u434	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the joint assessment of Petition No 419 / XIII / 3. a and the Resolution Projects n.o 1607 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) and 1942 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). It remains for me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will take place at 3 p.m. In the first point the Draft Resolution No 1635/ XIII/3 will be appreciated. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. In the second item of the agenda, draft resolution No 1939 / XIII / 4 will be discussed. a ( PS ) — National Investment Programme 2030. of the third point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 1931 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends the adoption of measures to ensure the access of all public transport users to the tariff reduction support programme in pendulum movements. of the fourth point is the joint assessment of Petition No 501 / XIII / 3. a ( André Pinto Mourão Ferreira Julião et al.) — They call for the urgent realization of structural works in the Grouping of Schools of the Portela and Moscow and the Resolution Projects Nos. 1862 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the High School of Portela ( Arc-Iris ), in the municipality of Loures, and 1863 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of School EB 2, 3 Gaspar Correia, in Loures County. The fifth point will be followed by the assessment of Petition No 465 / XIII / 3. a ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology of the Port) — They call for the creation of the « National Day of Hope». Finally, at the sixth point, we will appreciate Petition No 468 / XIII / 3. a ( João José Roque Batista Fael et al.) — Regulation of the career of Health Assistant Technique together with the Bill No 1073 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the Occupational Health Assistant Technique. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 34 minutes.]]
