ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1199 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers, which falls to 5. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 2110 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a truly national and territorially fair mobility support programme which falls to 6. the Commission, 2111 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate the effects of drought, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, and 2114 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the development of an investment plan in hospital pharmacies of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start our agenda today. We begin with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills No. 1147 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, creating restrictions on the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment in domestic violence cases and raising the criminal frame of this crime; 1148 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventing the refusal of testimony by the victim of domestic violence and prohibiting the provisional suspension of proceedings for domestic violence; 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution; 1150 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), ensuring compulsory training for judges in domestic violence ; 1151 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims; 1111 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of persecution, allowing the application of the preventive measure to prohibit contact with the victim; 1113 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Determines greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence crimes; 1152 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen legal mechanisms for the protection of victims of violence; 1155 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recasts crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code under the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measure to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and prosecution ( stalking ) ; 1165 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the area of gender equality and domestic violence ( third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ) ; 1166 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ) ; 1178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crime of the crime of persecution, verified certain aggravating circumstances, as well as the possibility of applying preventive measures ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Penal Code and the thirty-first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; 1089 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact where there is strong evidence of the practice of criminal prosecution ( makes the thirty-ninth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; 1105 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — It enables the application of the imposition of conduct or the prohibition of contact when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution ( the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ; and 1183 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects children who witness crimes of domestic violence and makes it compulsory to collect statements for future memory during the investigation ( sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of their victims ). To begin the debate and present the PSD initiatives, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us debate once again domestic violence today. Violence against women, especially domestic violence, is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations and in these almost four months since 2019 we have collectively woken up and for the worst reasons, namely 14 deaths, for the need to act persistently and without contemplation in preventing and combating this phenomenon. And in the light of today's greatest social perception of domestic violence, the PSD, which has always raised this flag, wanted to take advantage of this social interest and provoke a serious and widespread debate in Portuguese society, a debate which has left this Parliament aside. We believe, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much to be done about preventing and combating this kind of crime, and today we have the opportunity to have a broad debate in society so that we can find the best answers to this problem. We have seen a de-investment in the area of the training of judges, at the level of domestic violence, and several entities have pointed out this in particular in the report by GREVIO (Group of Experts on Actiongainst Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) — the group of independent experts responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in our country — as one of the essential elements for combating this still-fatted social scourge. The formation of magistrates, with regard to violence, is insufficient and often inadequate. This training should be specifically directed at the appropriate application of the protection measures to the victim and the coercion measures to the aggressor, in particular teleassistation in order to protect the victim, as well as the use of an electronic bracelet in order to remove the aggressor from the victim. We believe that this must be integrated in the initial and continuing training of judges. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to emphasize that this crime is a serious crime and deserves to be effectively punished and thus to combat the perception of impunity and the social tolerance that this crime still benefits. There is, of course, a serious discussion on the restrictions on the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence, which is a institute repeatedly used in this type of crime. The PSD also proposes that this discussion be held with the lifting in one year of the maximum criminal framework of the domestic violence crime, increasing it from five to six years, especially with the aim of allowing the application of another type of procedural rules, which, in our view, offer more guarantees of protection to the victims, namely: the domestic violence crime proceedings become judged, as a rule, by the collective court; the application of preventive detention in domestic violence crimes, due to the extent of the penalty and not only if the harmful conduct is directed against the physical integrity of the victim of domestic violence, as it has so far been enshrined; and the elimination of the possibility of application in this crime of the institute of the provisional suspension of the proceedings. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u5	It is also possible to apply the co-operation measure to ban contacts and to impose conduct whenever we are faced with a crime of persecution. And, in line with what has been defended by various entities, which we know to be controversial, we propose that we discuss the refusal of the victim's testimony in accordance with Article 134. the Code of Criminal Procedure, proposing its obligation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD does not have closed proposals in this area. We know that many of them are controversial, we know that, but we wanted, exactly, to provoke the debate... Madam President, I am having some difficulty making myself heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u6	The honourable Member is quite right, and I saw how she turned to the Bureau, asking her to intercede with her colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Members, so that they can create conditions so that they can continue with their intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. We know that many matters are controversial, but we still wanted to provoke the debate, discuss them, will hold them together with the various entities involved in this matter, with the victim's protection associations, in order to find the best answers, the most effective solutions to respond to this phenomenon and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to owe domestic violence to all of us once and for all. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We can no longer do anything else! What is needed is more fight against mourning. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u8	Mr André Silva of the NAP now has the floor to present his initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are concerned about the exposure of children in situations of domestic violence. We therefore propose that whenever there is a prosecution order for this crime, the Family and Minor Court should be immediately informed, ensuring effective communication between the courts to avoid the imposition of the child's life, potentially victim, with the aggressor. Moreover, in situations of death of one of the parents in the context of marital murder, there should be mandatory intervention by the court to verify the ability of the parent to survive for the purposes of the exercise of parental responsibilities. We also propose another initiative, with regard to the crime of persecution, so often preliminary to the practice of more serious crimes, such as domestic violence and murder. Currently, until the sentence is pronounced, the victim has no real protection, continuing to the mercy of the repeated intrusion in his private life reserve, by the aggressor, situation that we intend to correct in the following way: on the one hand, giving the courts the possibility to establish the prohibition and imposition of certain conduct to the defendant, as is the case of the prohibition of contact with the victim until the time of trial. And, on the other hand, extending the regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims to the crime of persecution, where the so-called 'panic button' stands out, providing victims with the possession of an electronic command or bracelet for the rapid denunciation of danger situations. We have an obligation to make every effort to stop this real scourge that has corroded Portuguese society, with the destruction of thousands of lives. We believe that the initiatives presented by the NAP today will contribute to this end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u10	To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will refer to the part of the initiatives put forward by the CFP, particularly those relating to the crime of persecution, after which I will make some considerations about the initiatives that are presented and that have to do with problems related to criminal law and criminal procedure and then I will then pronounce the remaining issue, no less important, obviously related to domestic violence, and Mrs Rita Rato will make another intervention at the right time. Starting with the CFP initiative on persecution, what brings us to this debate and has brought us this legislative initiative was that although we believe that there can be a relationship between the crime of persecution and the crime of domestic violence are distinct, conceptually distinct, and clearly deserve different criminal and procedural treatment. The PCP bill, concerning the possibility of applying preventive measures to prohibit contact with the victim in the crime of persecution, is justified by the knowledge and experience that has already brought us the processing related to this type of crime. At the time of the approval of the law that autonomousized the crime of persecution here—at the time, we still had only as reference the British term stalking, because it was somewhat unknown in Portugal— several testimonies of situations such as this justified that there was conceptual empowerment of the crime of persecution in the Portuguese legal system appeared. at that time, in the hearings conducted, there were proposals that contact ban measures could be taken, even in the preventive phase, because this would be important in order to be able to remove the victim's stalker early. These suggestions were not followed, but the practice of law enforcement revealed that this would be necessary. In the crime of persecution we have seen situations in which, until there is a sentence passed in trial, persecution continues, and with very serious contours, so victimization continues over time. Therefore, the experience advises the Portuguese legislation to change, so that, also in the preventive phase, it may be imposed on the stalker the prohibition of contact with the victim. It was in this sense that the CFP presented this proposal, fortunately, already followed by proposals from other parliamentary groups, so we believe that there is a very broad consensus on this measure and that it can be adopted in the short term. With regard to other issues of criminal law and criminal procedure present here, I would like to say that we strongly disagree with proposals on this subject, which come from both the CDS and the PSD. There are basic principles of our criminal process that cannot be abandoned, and cannot be abandoned in any way. The seriousness of the crimes cannot be a pretext for liquidating the fundamental foundations of our criminal procedural law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u13	Criminal law exists to protect the innocent and therefore the innocent must be protected! They're the criminals who have to be fought! And if there are no rules in the fight against criminals, there are no rules to protect the innocent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u15	We cannot throw off the edge civilizational conquests that have cost much to achieve. And I am not referring only to Portugal, I mean to humanity, to those who have cost a lot to conquer and therefore cannot be laid off the edge.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u17	As our people say, one cannot "dwell out the boy with the water of the bath" and, therefore, this contest of ideas in which the PSD and the CDS have launched themselves, of limiting conditional freedom, reminds an outsider of a party, said to be extremely left-wing - and I think it is extreme, but I do not think it is left-wing - where it is said: "No longer a suspended penalty", as if the question were the existence of the possibility of suspended penalties. The question has to do with the adequacy of the application of suspended penalties and there obviously is work to be done, but it cannot be attacked. It is not to overthrow fundamental rules of criminal procedural law that fight crime. We all believe that the crime of domestic violence is very serious, we must all work together to find measures, including legislative improvement, to combat, without any hesitation, this criminal phenomenon, but we must be careful in preserving what is essential in our legal order. that we do not follow some of the proposals that are made here, in fact, the opinions we have on them are absolutely overwhelming and therefore we cannot go there. Constructively, yes, destructively they won't count on us. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u18	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 15 years more than 500 women were murdered and more than 1,000 children and young people were orphaned. Domestic violence has been a priority of this government and previous governments. There are victims right now listening to us and that is also why we are here, without biasing the subject and without false solutions. The law we have in this matter is good. It must be changed, of course, when justified, but we lied to the country if we said that the obstacles to a successful fight against domestic violence and sexual crimes are, above all, in the law. on this day, we present the bill that reformulates the crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapable person in the Criminal Code, under the Istanbul Convention, and extends the scope of the coercion measures to prohibit contact with crimes of threat, coercion and persecution, in compliance with GREVIO's recommendations on the issue of victim consent. It is also proposed, in adjective terms, that the special extension of the scope of the co-operation measure prohibiting contact with crimes of threat, coercion and persecution, through an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, without exacerbating the criminal framework defined for these crimes in the Criminal Code. But today we are called to choose between criminal populism, the defense of the rule of law and the role of special and general prevention of criminal law. Our system is subject to punishment for punishment or imprisonment as a pacifying punishment for the victims. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD members, create restrictions on the suspension of the prison sentence in cases of domestic violence, raising the criminal frame of this crime, as well as preventing the refusal of testimony by the victim of domestic violence and prohibiting the provisional suspension of domestic violence proceedings is a false solution and a bad solution. It is unacceptable, as the APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association) said, to force the victim to replace himself with the Public Prosecutor's Office, forcing her to be proof, reducing her autonomy to zero, as if the State's interest in continuing criminal action was a totalitarian value. The provisional suspension of the process is often precisely the way found to preserve the evidence. Let us speak seriously about the suspension of execution of the sentence: Article 50. that of the Criminal Code does not provide for the obligation of suspended punishment for crimes punishable up to 5 years, provides for the possibility. However, given the expansion of the type throughout successive legal amendments, it is up to domestic violence to be extremely serious and less serious acts—which do not justify a deprivation of liberty—and this must be taken into account by the rational legislator, which legislation in general and abstract terms and not for the news. The CDS-PP decided to correct sentences and news of them, in the grip of criminal dogmatics. It proposes this: transforming the crimes of persecution, threat and coercion into public crimes. Moreover, as explained in the opinion of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, whose reading I recommend, read the news badly, part of a false factuality and build a law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, they know that the left we represent is not secure and refuses to increase penalties that VV. Ex. They're taking the lead. They're still going to have to present a study showing a relationship between increased penalties and low crime... or not, because there's no. In line with the recommendations of the report of the Home Violence Retrospective Analysis Team, the Government acted immediately, by creating an inter-ministerial team that should present conclusions within three months, and we know of the serious work being done to strengthen the system. It is precisely because we know that domestic violence is a very serious crime, that it is precisely because we know what it means to address someone's sexual freedom, that we also know that we are called to pass the test of the intransigent defense of the democratic rule of law and to refuse criminal populism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I've already written, we intend to pass the test! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u20	To present the initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four fatal victims of domestic violence per month is the alarming average of this black beginning of 2019 which, in total, already has 15 people killed in the context of family violence. There are 15 ceified lives, 15 destroyed families and so many interrupted dreams and projects, in the name of the most vile and abject paradox that human beings are capable of — violence against those closest to them and, theoretically, loved ones. Despite data from the Annual Internal Security Report show that globally considered domestic violence has suffered a slight decrease in the years 2017 and 2018, the fact is that it not only remains one of the most deadly crimes in Portugal, such as, worse, it shows what is already alarming evidence for all in this House : deaths due to domestic violence have not ceased to increase since 2017. That is exactly why we are here, united in a common objective, to make the year 2019 the year in which we face a dramatic reality that cannot have another way unless it is reversed. The contributions that the CDS brings today are the same, contributions to a greater reflection, which calls on each of us and for which the CDS is, as it has always been, entirely available. We all know — and not even the coldness of numbers lies — that, more than demultiplicating ourselves in legislative interventions, awareness of the problem is imperative and, with this, cultural change. But above all, what we all know is that, more than legislating, it is necessary to take away from the role that concerns not leaving it; more than to legislate, it is necessary to take over the network and create the mechanisms of articulation and coordination that are lacking; more than to legislate, it is necessary to equip the structures and institutions of the means that are persistently scarce and that make bare the failures in the field of prevention, where it is most essential. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And, of course, strengthening the support network and the social responses which, as we all know, are, in many cases, completely absent, particularly in the violence against the elderly, that the CDS has not been tired of speaking but whose echo, unfortunately, has not yet reached the left-wing majority. He may be here now! But yes, it is also necessary to legislate! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over a year ago, in this same forum, the CDS gave the country its proposals for the area of justice. Among them, and for what matters here, was a draft resolution aimed at setting up an expert committee for the revision of criminal law, with the aim of, among other things, studying the current crime catalogue and the adequacy of these to the problems of contemporary society. Unfortunately, until now, we have not been able to count on the company of the other parties. It is unfortunate that it is important — as it is seen in this debate — it has not been possible to move forward. the CDS remains the doubts and rarely the certainty regarding the numerous changes that, on the pretext of the domestic violence crime, some parties intend to introduce to the Criminal Codes and Criminal Procedure. Not only does it seem to us to be a bad technique, but above all, we have the greatest doubts about several of the proposed solutions. And no, Mr.António Filipe, it is not the CDS that comes into what he has called « contest of ideas ». Nevertheless, and because the urgency of the matter we are now dealing with does not feel sorry for the long distances and hesitations of the parties, not only is the CDS willing to discuss them, as it understood that, for that reason, two pressing aspects had to be dealt with, which are usually at the forefront of the domestic violence crime. I am, of course, talking about the crimes of threat and coercion and the crime of persecution. It is known that, often, any of these three crimes prior to the domestic violence crime, and this is studied, Mrs. Isabel Moreira. And this is where, so often, the victim of any one of them enters the state protection network. The victim is simply, as often happens too, convinced or'mustly' persuaded to withdraw the complaint, again coming from the state protection network and therefore prevention mechanisms all cease to work. Lack of prevention, succumb to protection. Now, what we propose is simple but effective: to make these crimes, like the crime of domestic violence, public crimes, where it is impossible to give up the complaint, and then to allow the victim to remain within that network of protection which is absolutely essential, and we all know that their lack leads to what we have seen this year. A small step for greater protection. Still, we admit that in the specialty we can discuss one or another detail that may eventually influence these projects. In addition, in the crime of persecution, the ability to impose conducts on aggressors, such as the measure of withdrawal and the prohibition of contact, a measure claimed at the time of the consecration of the legal type and to which reality came to note that it was necessary to implement. In addition, in accordance with the recommendations of GREVIO and the retrospective analysis team, the CDS also proposes strengthening the initial and continuing training of judges, absolutely essential for a more integrated and articulated view of the phenomenon. But more importantly than this fight at the bottom, it is the combat at the top, the fight in the field of prevention, where the means fail, coordination and protection fail, where the problem is truly punctuating. And because what is good can and should be copied, there are excellent experiences on the ground that the CDS considers worth replicating. This is the case of the Júlia Space, in Lisbon, or of the Office of Support and Information to the Victim of the PSP of Porto, running 24 hours a day and with direct and permanent connection to the Public Ministry, where, by the rest of the country, as we all saw this weekend, the issue of technical and human resources is hot. In the middle of such caustic numbers, in this Office in 6 years, of more than 7000 applications for aid or a single record of fatal victims. There's no way to see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way! The fight against domestic violence—I have said it here before and I repeat – now, to finish – is neither, nor can it be, an exclusive CDS, PAN, Greens, PCP, Left Block, PS, or PSD. Rather, it is a matter that requires the efforts of all, in all directions and in all dimensions and segments. No truce, no indulgences, no tibias! The CDS is here to do your part and collaborate on the solution! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u22	Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor for an intervention by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence is not too repeated - it is the crime against the people who most kill in Portugal. Today's discussion of 15 bills related to this problem shows that the parties represented here finally recognize that it is our responsibility, that it is our duty, in this House, to do everything, also at legislative level, to combat this crime and to protect its victims. The Left Block does not reach this debate today. In fact, the first bill that he presented as a Parliamentary Group, about 20 years ago, was precisely the change in the nature of the crime of domestic violence to public crime. Many other proposals were followed, including in this Parliament. All of them were based on the concrete analysis of reality and who knows that justice is not and cannot be a closed system in itself, before it should serve a clear social purpose inscribed in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u25	The Left Block Parliamentary Group has sought to hear all those who have concrete knowledge in this matter, from justice to criminal police bodies, to activist associations. It held a public hearing, which was crucial for the debate needed and which has already made it possible to move forward with two proposals which will make a huge material difference. The first concerns the fact that Law No 112/2009 does not recognize children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence as victims of domestic violence. More than an omission that disrespects the Istanbul Convention, this is a situation that does not protect children, which demeans the violence that is exercised over them and which influences all the way they are treated in the course of the criminal proceedings. The Istanbul Convention unequivocally states that it is necessary to recognise « that children are victims of domestic violence, particularly as witnesses of domestic violence». The World Health Organization alerts that children growing up in environments of family violence suffer behavioral and emotional disorders that negatively influence their development, social integration, their school income, their well-being and alerted to the fact that the risk of future violent behaviors is high. Considering children as victims is what the Left Block therefore proposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u27	The second amendment refers to the challenge of collecting evidence that this domestic violence crime is ending. Passing through the family, where the aggressor’s rise and violence prevail, it is urgent to try to counter the difficulty of collecting evidence. For this reason, it is necessary to value the statements that the victim is willing to give as soon as possible and to ensure that they can be used in a future hearing in trial. Only by respecting this time—that all experts point to a maximum of 72 hours—is that there will be a rich witness in detail and reliable. This is a solution that protects the evidence and prevents revitalization, but does not prevent the victim from manifesting and testifying during the process, when he understands. This is also a proposal which also deserves the approval of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which has also recently come to appeal to this legislative amendment. In addition to these two amendments, the Left Block also presents a project which, in fact, has the same objective as that of several parliamentary groups, which also present them here, which is to enable the application of conduct or the prohibition of contact, when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution. In fact, it does not make sense that since the possibility for this crime to be "applyed to the defendant the accessory penalties for the prohibition of contact with the victim" cannot then be applied as coercion measures, we also propose this amendment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with our work, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we are in the gallery, accompanied by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, the President of the Republic of Estonia, with a large committee, to whom I would like a very warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall not record any entries for speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u29	Madam President, if I may, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u30	You have the floor, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would also like to say a few words on the subject which is now under discussion and which is the subject of several proposals from various parliamentary groups, to say that domestic violence is a dramatic phenomenon. We have often discussed it here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and in many of these times, the Greens have brought to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the idea that we all have to unite to request zero tolerance for the phenomenon of domestic violence, and of all forms of violence, which affect more and more women, children and elderly, as revealed by numbers. Unfortunately, at the beginning of 2019 we had the opportunity to see this with a number of murdered women who must cause us deep concern, given that the legal framework has advanced, that Portugal has ratified several international instruments to combat violence, and that have in fact been generated more means, more training, but that reality persists. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we be aware of this reality and that we can act in accordance with the drama it constitutes. The Greens therefore say that all victim protection measures are fundamental and are, of course, welcome. But with all honesty, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens believe that the true path is not the strengthening of criminal frameworks. That is the way that seems to solve something and, in good rigour, there is nothing to solve. It can even divert us from what is fundamental, because it generates an appearance of solution, but it does not solve it. What the Greens would like to win is the need to provide this country with more means to support the victim, to be used, in particular, by security agents and also by justice professionals, and more training for these agents, of whom it is expected, in these cases of violence, the first dose, so let us say security. On the other hand, there is a path where we certainly do not reap short-term fruits, but where we reap medium- and long-term fruits, which is the path of education and awareness which this society must make, in a very strong and very perennial way. In our perspective, it is also essential to follow this path. These have been, moreover, the proposals which the Greens have put forward to the Assembly of the Republic in respect of domestic violence and other forms of violence, for which, I repeat, we must ask, and act in this regard, zero tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u32	Mrs. Members, there are several banks that still have intervention time. However, the Bureau does not record inscriptions for the use of the word. If this is the case, we will give the floor to the Democratic Social Party, Mrs. Angela Guerra, to close the debate. [[Pause.]] I would like to continue with this practice, which I think is very appropriate, of the main proposer to close the debate, but in the meantime the Bureau was informed that the Socialist Party's bench wants to register Mrs Susana Amador, for an intervention, and the Left Block also intends to use the word, so I ask for tolerance to Mrs Angela Guerra. Anyway, I think it would be good if there were some restraint in this gap between who talks after who. Therefore, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We could say that all contributions are valid in a debate on crimes that constitute serious human rights attacks, which have, as we know, devastating and have become devastating impacts — and so well! — central to the agenda of our society and to the political agenda, from which the Socialist Party never left. But the truth is that when some people advocate legislative solutions that distort structural principles of the criminal process, and they also deviate from our Constitution, we cannot validate them, because they end up in dangerous deviations from the rule of democratic law. Criminal codes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not some kind of magic veins of criminal policy. We must all be aware that these problems must be tackled. These problems must be tackled in the appropriate implementation of the good legal solutions existing, and I fear them in our legal order, in the training of justice agents, in economic and social development, in the prevention and fight against prejudice, gender stereotypes and sexism, aiming at changing patterns of sociocultural behavior between men and women. It is also in education for citizenship that attacks the genesis of crime, and that of domestic violence is no exception. This is our way, a path that is also made up of the law. The Socialist Party will continue in this debate, with an active and liquid contribution to the improvement of our criminal legislation, with a view to strengthening the protection of victims, taking into account a framework of special prevention and general prevention, in which we will always deal with the values of our constitutional matrix and with the principles of proportionality, adequacy and autonomy of the victim's will, that we will never be able to abdicate and that some parties, such as the PSD, abdicate. That's why they don't count on us. They do not contain with us for populist drifts and do not contain with us for involvement in criminal proceedings and the structural principles of our democratic rule of law. In fact, all the opinions received so far reveal, in fact, powerful and demolition criticisms for the authors of these proposals, which create these kinds of deviations — as dangerous as we have already mentioned — and in which we cannot see ourselves. We believe that the effectiveness of the system that society demands is achieved by improving the various mechanisms for intervention and strengthening means, but always with careful respect for the balance between the vectors of security and freedom, which are the grip of the democratic rule of law. Therefore, the Socialist Party, both in its electoral programme and in its active policy of promoting equality between men and women and in the fight against domestic violence, has emphasized a cross-cutting and integrated strategy of combating gender violence, with training, awareness-raising and prevention actions, properly linked with security forces, with the judicial system and with social protection mechanisms. In fact, the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination and the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which we have already approved in the course of this Legislation, have actively contributed to the development of joint and integrated actions, that I highlight very important protocols developed since 2018, with lawyers, judges and professionals working with these cases of domestic violence. Also in the area of health and social security, we have developed important instruments and procedures for the prevention of violence. We can't stop talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, throughout 2014 and 2018, have strengthened continued investments in preventing and combating violence against women, with the vital support of non-governmental organizations, key partners for this government. The truth is that over the last few years, teleassistation has increased 251 %, electronic surveillance has increased 93 %, the network of municipalities has grown, and we will have more 29 in this structure in the first half of 2019. The victim's support offices are also more today, and they have expanded. The national network has grown, with 39 shelters from north to south of the country. In the Annual Report on Internal Security, there is a strong effort to combat violence in the strategic orientation axes and today we have 1080 men and women dedicated to combating this crime, either in the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), or in the PSP ( Public Security Police ). We must await the development of the work of the committee, of the multidisciplinary technical team set up by the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2019, this work also integrated and will certainly bring us results, proposals and recommendations that will be a very important contribution for political action to be qualified because it is anchored in previous knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be our work front, this will be our effort and contribution to combating gender violence, with the bill already presented here and with this work we are developing at the level of the parliamentary group and the government. It is not legislated according to public complaints and no criminal frameworks are increased by mere perception or reaction. It is always legislated in the name of values that are immanent to society itself, the state of democratic law and a state of foundation that we are proud to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — I now give the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha, for one more intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the discussion that we will have in depth and in all detail on these various projects, in the field of expertise, I would like to leave here two or three notes on some of the proposals that are on the table. One of them has to do with the Bill No. 1148 / XIII / 4. a, the PSD, which prevents the refusal to testify to the victim of domestic violence. In fact, the Left Block cannot follow this proposal which closes a potential for absolutely undesirable revitalization. We believe that it makes no sense to burden the victim with something that must be the responsibility of the system and the Public Prosecutor, which is to seek all the necessary evidence and not to consider the testimony of the victim alone and exclusively as a unique proof. Therefore, the duty of the Public Prosecutor to extend the spectrum of evidence cannot be replaced. The testimony of the victim is important, but it cannot be an argument to limit its autonomy. For the PSD project, which provides for the provisional suspension of proceedings, as a result of the repeal of Article 281 ( 7 ). that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this is a solution that is not useful, because, in fact, it ends up facilitating this institute even more, by resorting to the provisional suspension of the procedure. The Left Block had already presented a solution which made the amendment directly in the Code of Criminal Procedure and which was much more objective and concrete and therefore was a much better solution. Let us hope that the PSD will review this situation in the field of expertise. A final note only to the bill that the Socialist Party brings and reformulates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of the unconscious person. The title of Article 164. it is changed from « sexual abuse of a person unable to resist » to « sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapacitated person ». This is indeed a search for a response to the judgment of mutual seduction, in which a woman was raped in the bathroom of a discotheque while she was unconscious. But you don't understand, the PS, and you don't assume that you abuse an unconscious or incapacitated person, even if you're not clear of what she's incapable, you can't stop being a violation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u36	The argument that supports the differentiation between rape and sexual abuse of a person who is unconscious is the argument that the victim will not suffer, because he is unconscious and therefore does not feel or suffer so much. I do not understand how the Socialist Party makes this amendment proposal, but then it maintains this distinction between sexual abuse of an unconscious person and rape. Sexual abuse of an unconscious person can only be a violation, because if the person is unconscious he does not give his consent and, as such, it can only be an actual violation. There is no other way to consider or look at this problem. These are conceptions that no one stands for today. Sexual abuse of an unconscious or incapacitated person must be considered a violation and this must be made clear to anyone. The case of rape of a woman in a bathroom, while she was unconscious, even though it was considered a sexual abuse—and we are not talking about criminal frameworks here—is understood by all Portuguese and all Portuguese as a violation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). Before we give the floor to Mrs Angela Guerra to conclude the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking here about issues of combating domestic violence and protecting victims and whether or not certain matters need to be improved in law. It should be said that, regardless of the objective need, which exists, of legislative improvement, the strengthening of public investment in the various dimensions of protection of the victim is imperative. It is urgent to ensure the recruitment of missing human resources in many essential services, throughout the victim protection process, both at the level of security forces and services, either at the level of multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts. It is urgent to ensure the material and human resources, but, in particular, humans and technicians in the protection committees of children and young people at risk, in social security, in the National Health Service. It is urgent to ensure the existence of psychologists, who do not exist in the teams or multidisciplinary teams in hospitals or schools, where they should exist, to ensure the follow-up of the victims. Therefore, it is not possible to make this discussion in the abstract, looking at the formality of the law without realizing that today there are not all conditions of public investment to ensure the application of the law. Therefore, we also present a proposal for the establishment of a national committee for the prevention and protection of victims of violence, similar to what is already happening today with the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, with functions of coordination, prevention, protection and monitoring of victims. It is necessary to discuss needs for the improvement of the law, no one questions it, but it is imperative to ensure the public investment necessary for the law to be applied and the protection of victims to be made in time and time and in a timely manner. [[PCP applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Now, yes, to conclude the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the previous Parliament a great deal has been discussed about the various issues we are dealing with today, in a working group that has set out to promote an extended debate, as you all know, on the Istanbul Convention and its legislative implications and amendments, through the hearing and hearing of numerous entities. There have been very interesting, intense and productive debates and where much has been done in these matters. in this same context was also discussed and voted on a set of initiatives presented and worked by all parliamentary groups and unanimously voted the replacement text leading to 39. the amendment to the Criminal Code, in particular, by empowering the crime of female genital mutilation, by creating the crimes of persecution and forced marriage and by altering the crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual harassment, all in compliance with the provisions of that Convention, which, in fact, constituted a historical framework of civilizational advancement in the defence of human rights, equality and dignity of women's rights. in this context, the criminalization of stalking, persecution arose in our legal order, where it was also established the punitivity of the attempt and the possibility of the application of accessory penalties and the prohibition of contact with the victim, obligation of frequency of specific prevention programs and typical conduct. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been noted, unfortunately later, that there are situations in which it is imperative to stop the conduct of the defendant immediately and that this urgency is not compatible with the deadlines and proceedings provided for in our Code of Criminal Procedure. It is clear that there is a need for real orders of restriction with rapid application, regardless of the formal requirements of the cohesion measures, and it is in this sense that some of the initiatives we are considering today on this issue are going on. Others, however, go in a different way: they invoke the GREVIO assessment report, released in January of this year, which points to shortcomings and recommendations, regarding the criminal framework of crimes of rape and sexual coercion, and also also the configuration of the victim's consent in the definition of criminal types, as well as in their causes of aggravated penalties. in this point it will be worth noting that already in the preparatory work of the law of 2015 this issue was discussed, of the crimes of sexual coercion and rape are based precisely on the non-consent of the victim, as well as on the question of the transformation of nature into public crimes. It was, however, another legislative solution to which it was adopted, and was proposed by the PSD, in which it was aimed to make the existence of the two types, coercion and rape clearer, those who sit in violence and serious threat, where the victim is placed in a state of unconsciousness or inability to resist, and those who settle in the constraints of the victim by any other means. In this way, in our view, we have complied with the Istanbul Convention by making it clear, of course, in the law that any means of restraining a victim is likely to integrate these crimes and by 'constraining' it is understood that it is taking someone to do what he does not want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the other bills we are discussing today, and there are many, on domestic violence, on the formation of judges and on the determination and strengthening of greater guarantees for the protection of children, families where this type of crime occurs — and, of course, we are talking about indirect violence and vicarious violence — the PSD Parliamentary Group reiterates its commitment to work, as it has always done, in these matters, with the other parliamentary groups, so that the expected consensus can be reached in the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u40	But it is not just the proposals that the PSD submits that have to be re-examined and evaluated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u41	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u42	...because many of them also need greater precision, in our understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u44	It would not end without mentioning that in this area, throughout the whole of this legislation, the PSD Parliamentary Group was very incisive, stating that the issue of domestic violence was being very little accompanied and that there was a clear disinvestment by this Government in a large majority of the training, means and indicators actions which are very important that are monitored and referred to. We have been saying this throughout all the regimental hearings, some until the request of our Parliamentary Group, which have been made to all ministers, and three have already had this protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our commitment, but it is also the responsibility of this House to respond to all women and children who are victims of this crime. We are in this availability and that is why we are going to work. [[PSD applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this first debate on our agenda is thus concluded. We will continue with the discussion of the draft resolution No 2045 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote reciprocal protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom and of British citizens in Portugal within the framework of the future bilateral relationship. To present this initiative, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the adoption on 25 November 2018 of the final text of the exit agreement of the United Kingdom of the European Union, as well as the political declaration on the future relationship, it is urgent to reiterate what is already foreseen in the plan for the preparation and contingency of the Portuguese Government for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, in part concerning the framework of the future relationship of the United Kingdom with Portugal. Thus, and without prejudice to the negotiations that will take place within the framework of the future relationship of the United Kingdom with the European Union and its Member States, the Portuguese Government should always pay particular and particular attention to the continuity of the bilateral relations of Portugal with the United Kingdom after Brexit. In fact, the Brexit process has been marked by political uncertainty and instability. However, we also know that there are aspects that do not change and will never change with the way out of the United Kingdom of the European Union. The secular alliance between Portugal and the United Kingdom — in fact, one of the oldest and longest in Europe — can never be affected following Brexit. The draft resolution presented by the Socialist Party, which we are discussing today, therefore aims to strengthen the essential aspects of our bilateral relationship in the post-Brexit phase: human ties, the significant presence of the Portuguese community in the United Kingdom and the British community in Portugal; also economic relations, equally very deep and thus the geopolitical alliance, being the United Kingdom our main ally with regard to security and defence in the European context. The United Kingdom will continue to be the closest ally of the European Union and in the case of Portugal it will continue to be a fundamental ally in the Atlantic front. in this respect, in particular, we must maintain the line of appreciation of the Atlantic aspect in European policy, since, without the United Kingdom, Portugal is the closest European country to the transatlantic partners and this advantage must be used to influence European decisions. Indeed, for centuries, the United Kingdom has been our main ally in Europe. It must continue to be - even if the United Kingdom ceases to be a Member State of the European Union. in this sense, we consider it to be of the greatest importance for the Government to do an early preparatory work for the negotiations on the future relationship so that they begin as soon as the United Kingdom officially leaves the European Union. Our priority 1, since the beginning of this process, is the citizens and their rights. Our community residing in the United Kingdom, composed of some 400,000 people including workers and students who have chosen the United Kingdom as their destination, naturally need guarantees that their rights will be guaranteed after Brexit. Portugal has already shown itself to be available to guarantee all rights to British citizens residing in Portugal, so mutual protection of these rights must be our main priority, along with facilitating mobility for temporary stays. It is therefore very important to facilitate and support companies that have economic ties with the United Kingdom, including around 2850 Portuguese exporting companies to the United Kingdom, which is also our fourth largest trading partner and our leading tourist issuer. It is therefore important to facilitate and support all these economic links with the United Kingdom as well as to take advantage of the potential interest of UK companies wishing to remain in the European area. In fact, if the United Kingdom wants to be out of the European Union, one thing is certain: Portugal will always want to be in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u46	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult to disagree with this draft resolution. I believe that he reflects what is obvious, although the question that could be raised about his presentation is whether the Socialist Party believes that it is necessary to recommend to the Government that measures be taken to safeguard Portugal's relations with British citizens after the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. But I believe, of course, that the Government is aware of the need to safeguard this position and that this recommendation would not even be necessary from that point of view. However, it is evidence that relations with British citizens, the rights of Portuguese citizens residing in the UK, as well as the rights of British citizens residing in Portugal, should of course be seized without any outrage after the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. Moreover, everyone has already realized that the difficulties in having the British people's sovereign will to leave the European Union have largely been created by the European institutions themselves, which have been making the most of the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union difficult. It is, however, evidence that, after the completion of this exit, it actually corresponded to a choice that has been made by the British citizens and that we must all respect, of course, a whole relationship that must be maintained. Portugal and the United Kingdom have very ancient historical relations, for good, but often for evil. Portugal's relationship with Britain has not always been peaceful. There were moments in our history when there were indeed very acute crisis situations marked by great difficulties of relationship with the United Kingdom. But that's part of the story. What is important is that, indeed, after achieving the European Union's exit — as evidence that there is more Europe beyond the European Union and that the United Kingdom will continue to be a European country even though it is not a member of the Union, which there is more world beyond the European Union — Portugal does not defuse its international relations with the countries belonging to the European Union, but in fact has a broader foreign policy and that, from the very important point of view of the relationship between citizens and businesses, the necessary measures are taken to ensure that there are no attacks on this matter. This concern has already been expressed several times by the CFP in this House. Moreover, we proposed a set of hearings, which took place in the Committee on European Affairs, various entities and various members of the Government, precisely in order to avoid difficulties in relations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, following the departure of this country from the European Union. Concern is legitimate and we hope that all measures will be taken to ensure that there can be a peaceful relationship, not only from a military point of view, but also peaceful in all areas of life between Portugal, the United Kingdom and its citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u48	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution we are discussing is debated a few days after a proposal for a government bill was adopted in this House approving a set of contingency measures to be applied in the event of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement. In the debate that we held on 27 March, we had the opportunity to say that the Government's bill was not presented in a timely manner, preventing the proper preparation to respond to an exceptional situation, as we have warned in due time. We also pointed out that the rights of British citizens to live in Portugal were at stake and above all the future of the Portuguese community residing in the United Kingdom. We stressed in this debate that the Government, despite knowing the expected date for the implementation of Brexit, did not take the necessary measures to ensure that the consular network was at least able to respond to the needs of Portuguese residents in that country. We also mention in this same debate and in the draft resolution that we have already tabled in 2018 that the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union could cause a huge impact on our economy, our agriculture, our tourism, that is a major impact in Portugal. It was also clear throughout this process that there is no formal study in April 2019 that enables us to make a correct and concrete assessment of the impact of Brexit on Portugal and the Portuguese. This draft resolution makes sense to the PSD in the analysis we have done of the work of the Government, or the lack of it, in the preparation of Brexit, and the only interpretation we can draw when reading its contents is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is not comfortable with the work that the Government has developed in this regard. This draft resolution is therefore a clear criticism to the Government, to its Prime Minister, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, but also to the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group which, in its discussion of this case, never followed the positions of the PSD Parliamentary Group, nor of other parliamentary groups, even voting against our draft resolution, which made the same kind of recommendations. In the end, this initiative of the Socialist Party gives reason to the PSD Members who have denounced Portugal's impreparation in the face of the consequences of Brexit and demonstrates that the confusion that has existed around this process in the United Kingdom is even overcome by the Socialist Party, its parliamentary group and its relationship with the Government. At a time when the Portuguese who live in the United Kingdom and the British who live in Portugal needed assurances, we realize, through this draft resolution and its recommendations, that the contingency plan prepared by the Government cannot even succeed — see, Mr President, well. Ladies and gentlemen! — have the full agreement of the Socialist Party. That, really, gives you thought! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u50	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Brexit has been a set of advances and retreats, and this dynamic reality, far richer than our imagination, has withdrawn validity from both proposals and criticisms. Otherwise, see: the PSD accuses the government of being late, when the PS speaks of a draft resolution from a Brexit on 29 March, and now it is known that Brexit will be the haunting of the witch day. So from this point of view, it is Brexit that puts everything on the contrary. The Socialist Party itself has gone a bit contrary to what would be expected in this context, because, as it has been well remembered, we have adopted here today, in the Assembly of the Republic, a change to the law — but as a result, with changes in the relationship between the two States, with the safeguarding of the rights of British citizens to reside in Portugal, just so that the UK response after Brexit will be the same safeguard of rights for Portuguese citizens to reside in the United Kingdom — but the PS now brings us a set of recommendations to the Government, when the Assembly itself has already taken up what the Government has asked the Assembly to take. Therefore, it is not only Brexit who runs on time or time, according to opinions, it is also the PS who runs on what the Government says it does and who asks the Assembly of the Republic to do and what the PS itself presents to the Assembly of the Republic. From that point of view, it is true that it was not only the Government of the Socialist Party that came late to propose contingency measures for Brexit, it was the Socialist Party itself that was late to make a recommendation on Brexit. It is clear that this initiative that we are discussing today has already arrived in March, when Brexit's forecast was to leave the United Kingdom at the end of that month. Brexit was not delayed, and clearly we would be discussing this set of measures out of time. However, this was not so important, it did not affect both the European Union and the Portuguese economy and we did not have such a relevant Portuguese community in the United Kingdom, in fact, this whole process, both of the United Kingdom and of the Socialist Party, would be a huge joke. Since this is too serious, we should only be concerned about how we are not, in fact, safeguarding the interests of both Portugal and Portuguese communities in a timely manner. Fortunately, the Assembly of the Republic, with the bill we passed a little more than a week ago, has already saved these rights and, therefore, this draft resolution ends up being harmless in this context. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u52	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate and this initiative of the Socialist Party are proof, if any, that the Government of Portugal on the issue of Brexit had a relaxed response, a late response and an erroneous response. When everyone in Europe already realized that it was necessary to work on alternatives to protect the citizens of each of the national states that are in the United Kingdom, but also in terms of protecting the companies that export to the United Kingdom — in the Portuguese case, this dimension is very important, because we are talking about nearly 400,000 of our compatriots who are in the United Kingdom and many companies that export to the United Kingdom, dealing, in fact, with our fourth trading partner — when everyone in Europe had already realized that action was needed, the Portuguese Government was coming to Parliament and said that 95% of the way was made, that we would have until the end of the year the moment of truth and that we would be able to overcome this same difficulty. Even last week, the CDS-PP question answered the Socialist Party that «the government did all the steps that were possible and necessary. » After a week, we are here, realizing that the possible and necessary steps have not been made and that, after all, there was still a need to do something more. We simply see how the government has been reactive in order to realize that Portugal's management in this case is not in fact the most correct one. The only systematic study that was made on the impact that Brexit has on our economy was not done by the government, it had to be commissioned by the CIP, the Portuguese business confederation, and in March 2018, when the European Council, more than one year ago, encouraged States to have contingency programmes, the Portuguese Government has chosen to ignore these same appeals, has chosen to ignore these same indications and we are unfortunately in the situation in which we are now. in this sense, it was important for the Socialist Party to explain some things to us in this debate, for example, when the Portuguese Government will meet with its British congener to begin to examine many subjects that are very relevant. I give two examples: the Netherlands and Spain have already met to, for example, in the field of science and higher education, understand how they will continue to have a post-United Kingdom relationship. Moreover, the Government itself, which on March 27, adopted a bill in this House to study the contingencies until 29, two days later, informed us that it was very important to meet with the British authorities regarding the political rights of both British citizens who are in Portugal, or above all Portuguese citizens who are in the United Kingdom. So far we have no record of any meeting. Curiously, what does the Socialist Party say? That the meetings should only happen, the connection should only take place after the departure of the United Kingdom, perhaps after 31 October. That is, none of us really know when that exit will happen. Moreover, the Socialist Party has so far said nothing in such important matters—and that is a clear absence in the Socialist Party's draft resolution—such as that of the Atlantic dimension of Europe. With the exit of the United Kingdom, there is a decreasing dimension in Europe, which is its Atlantic dimension and aspect. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] Charles César may have denied it, but the truth is that there is no single reference to the Atlantic dimension and the future Atlantic of Europe with the exit of the United Kingdom. from the point of view, this matter for the Socialist Party is not relevant, nor is it important. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u54	To close the debate, Mrs Carla Tavares of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very comfortable with the role the Government has played in this whole process. [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.]] That is why this draft resolution is brought here. It is not only to reiterate but also to endorse all that is foreseen in the Plan of Preparation and Contingency for the Exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, reinforcing what is planned for the future relationship, right after the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is worth remembering that Portugal was the first Member State to meet with the United Kingdom shortly after the referendum. The then Secretary of State for European Affairs, Margarida Marques, met with his counterpart three days after the referendum. Meetings between Portugal and the United Kingdom have always been frequent. And in these meetings there have always been priorities for Portugal, in the negotiation of the exit agreement, such as citizens'rights, given the significant number of British and Portuguese citizens living in both countries, and also support for economic operators, the United Kingdom being one of Portugal's main economic partners. In addition, with regard to geostrategic issues, Portugal and the United Kingdom have one of the oldest alliances in Europe and the United Kingdom will continue to be our privileged geopolitical ally. [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.]] In fact, that is why Portugal is not saving the Euro-Atlantic space and that this will become fragile with Brexit. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union will create a challenge that will generate potential impacts but also potential new opportunities, it is therefore very important to remember and also strengthen this need to ensure the robustness and dynamism of future relations, and therefore seek to consolidate bilateral relations so that they become ever wider, particularly in key sectors, such as innovation, science, technology, the cultural sector and others. in this context, it is crucial that the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union does not result in the creation of unjustified, unnecessary and detrimental barriers to the possibility of Portuguese and British citizens visiting or residing in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom intends to stop being part of the European Union. However, Portugal shall not leave the Portuguese to reside in the United Kingdom nor the British to reside in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u56	Ended discussion of draft resolution No 2045 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ), we consider Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January, which approves the arrangement of investment companies and real estate management [ Parliamentary evaluations No 120 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 122 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ). For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Regardless of and prior to the discussion of the content of this decree, there is a formal question that arises and has political relevance. The government has tried to put this new regime through silence, trying to prevent its discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, and I think it should tell us why. We're talking about an important issue, which you have, like all of us. Members know, tax consequences, to the extent that it extends to an indefinite number of companies tax benefits which have so far been applied to real estate funds. Let us therefore make it clear that the government intended to extend tax expenditure in an unaccounted way — because this scheme will have a tax impact — without consulting Parliament, and that seems unacceptable to us. But when we look at the details of this regime, we see why they tried to hide it. While in the country there is a very serious problem of access to housing, while discussing the uncontrolled effects of tourism on urban centres, while everyone has already realized that there is a problem of real estate speculation that is inflationing prices beyond the bearable and jeopardizing housing in cities, the government is going to tell the country and the world that what Portugal needs is promoting foreign investment in real estate and dynamizing the real estate market. As if the golden visas were not enough, as if the regime for non-usual residents and a whole range of other goods and other tax benefits were not enough, here we have one more to promote the dynamism of the real estate market. Since there is also an excuse for this scheme: in the case of visasgold, it was to create jobs (very few created ) ; in the case of non-standard residents, it was to attract qualified work (not yet seen) ; in the case of these investment and real estate management companies, it is for the promotion of long-term lease, like, we are told of other schemes that exist outside. But that is not what is written in this decree. This regime is not even happy to imitate what exists outside, it can be worse. And so that there is no doubt about the interpretation that we make of the scheme, it is worth mentioning the analysis that jurists of investment funds platforms and industry professionals say that some aspects of this scheme, in particular in the tax regime and in the rules of distribution or allocation of their assets, are more flexible than some similar international vehicles. What that means is this: they are better tax benefits for real estate business, but unlike Spain, in which the performance of these vehicles is limited to lease for a minimum period, in Portugal there are no limits to business. And I quote again the opinion of the jurists: "It should be noted that, despite the imposition of minimum limits on the composition of the heritage, the regime is totally agnostic as to the forms of allocation, lease or other forms of economic exploitation, e.g. hotels, shops, shopping centres, local housing", without talking about other forms of flexibility. In short, the government is providing tax benefits, at least at the most valuable level, to companies that can be set up to promote real estate and tourism, pure and hard, without renting a single house — I repeat, without renting a single house — because there is no obligation to rent any house in this scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u58	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u59	I shall conclude, Madam President. Minister Siza Vieira said to the public: "We want to take an additional step with this measure, creating investment companies that can only invest in real estate to buy and sell, but what we need is to bring investment to long-term lease. We hope that this will make a contribution to increasing housing at affordable prices'. Mr. Secretary of State, my question is this: has the Minister deceived you? Was Mr. Secretary of State misleading the Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u60	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy. It's been a long time since you ran out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u61	Or is it the government that wants to deceive everyone, pretending that this is a long-term lease regime, when in fact it is a mechanism for promoting real estate speculation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u62	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : In the preamble to the decree today under consideration in the Assembly of the Republic it is written that « real estate investment and management companies (SIGIs) set up a new investment promotion and dynamisation vehicle of the real estate market ». If you read this preambular phrase, you may think that we are appreciating a decree of law in a country where the real estate market would, perhaps, be depressed and that, for the benefit of the national economy, it would be necessary to boost it. It is also emphasized that this scheme would promote « foreign direct investment capture ». But that is not the country we live in. The real estate market does not need more dynamisation instruments and much less finance. It doesn't need even more capture by foreign speculative capital, which nothing has to invest, but it's rather a mere purchase of assets, made in our country. On the contrary, it needs policies that contravene a path of finance, real estate speculation, price increases for those who need to buy or rent homes, policies that necessarily pass through the guarantee of the right to housing with a strong State intervention, as foreseen in the Constitution, by the repeal of the « law of waste» of the former Government, PSD / CDS, by public policies that oppose the expulsion of the populations of the city centres, as well as measures aimed at the commercial lease that prevent the expulsion of many small and medium-sized enterprises from the city centres, contributing to their decharacterization. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, if in the so-called "new generation of housing policies" of the PS Government, we see the creation of illusions about forms of the market solve the problems of housing, in this decree, the blind faith in the market God rises to a new level. With this decree, the Government intends to give more power to the large capital, which is covered by real estate funds, funds and investment companies and other figures. But does anyone believe that investment companies and real estate management — the finances that would dominate the housing market — are promoting affordable housing for workers and the Portuguese people? Oh, my God! The country does not need to copy models that exist in other countries, where the real estate market has other characteristics, either on the supply side or on the demand side. Yes, we need to repeal the PSD/CDS Government's "dispatch law", which the PS Government has so far wanted to maintain. The country needs, above all, a strong State intervention as a public promoter, particularly in the lease. In the discussion of this parliamentary assessment presented by the CFP, our proposal is the cessation of the validity of this decree-law, which only serves the economic groups—especially foreign—and which would not, before that, resolve the problems of housing in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u64	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I and the PS Parliamentary Group believe that the Government has been well in approving this scheme, which creates a mechanism that allows investment to be channelled to real estate funds which, instead of only building and selling buildings, can proceed to their economic exploitation. Economic exploration which, of course, includes renting, because we feed on the strange notion that, in order to have affordable leases, it is appropriate to make houses that can be rented. And we do not believe, note, that the purpose of the companies is to provide affordable lease; we believe that, if there are companies building houses to rent, this helps to have houses to rent. It's not too complex causality. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] As regards the tax system, it should be borne in mind that nothing in this diploma changes the tax regime, nor could it, since it is a decree-law and the decree-laws cannot change the tax regime. Therefore, the tax system of investment funds which consists of this diploma is a tax regime which only allows to exclude from those incomes that are taxed directly from the fund—but which, it is noted, are taxed on exit and, in this scheme, the incomes collected annually is, moreover, the rule rather than the exception—those that are incomes of capital, which are hardly applicable in this case, or income from ad hoc or surplus, which, by nature, are occasional. The business exploitation of these buildings would naturally be taxed on IRC, in the same way as it is today. Therefore, there is nothing innovative in this tax system, keeping what is already in the EBF ( Statute of Tax Benefits ) and that in this case allows the essential income of these companies, i.e., incomes, to be taxed out and not at the bottom. However, since the diploma is here in Parliament, we can do what the decree cannot do. We can, in particular, make some adjustments to the tax system by clarifying precisely these limitations on the tax system of the funds to the income of the real estate which, as it appears, of the regime which is in the law, had remained at least three years on the market, or on the lease or lease market in the atypical form, which is what we want to designate by similar forms of economic exploitation. We will therefore vote against the cessation of work, but we will take this opportunity to introduce what seems to us to be a clarification in the tax system of these funds, which will better serve its purpose of promoting the availability of real estate for rent in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u66	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Government has always talked about creating a specific regime for investment firms in real estate intended exclusively — and I insist on the word « exclusively»! — to the housing lease. Therefore, of both: either he changed his mind or he went to deceive the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u69	In fact, the decree that the Government has just passed and that we are now considering allows the main social object of these societies to also be the acquisition of real estate for other forms of economic exploitation. Now, this circumstance makes all the difference,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u70	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u71	... because it allows portfolio buildings to serve, for example, to support mere purchase and sale activity, which would eventually contribute to the worsening of housing prices, aggravation that we all have to fight. I leave a second critical note to point out that the Government, in terms of which it has drawn up this diploma, by opening the door to a more favourable regulatory and fiscal regime for SIGI, may be contributing to double iniquity. First, because it favours a limited group of real estate activities after having aggravated taxation for the generality of companies and activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u72	What tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u73	And then because it allows these companies to benefit from a more favourable tax regime for operations that do not need fiscal stimulus, such as those that do not affect housing rent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: SIGIs can be an important instrument for attracting investment and, in this sense, we have a favourable position in the PSD in principle to its creation, but we cannot allow its social object to be deverted, i.e. that housing lease is not the main reason for its creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u74	What about the services? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this regard, we have tabled a number of amendments, of which I stress: the restriction of the acquisition of real property to other forms of economic exploitation, which we continue to allow, of course, to extend the situation of the loss of quality of SIGI ; and the strengthening of the participation of small-scale savers. In the PSD — and I think we should all be united for this purpose — we want to attract investment for the dynamisation of the real estate market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u76	You don't have to! There is too much dynamisation of the real estate market!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u77	... especially for the dynamisation of the housing lease market. Until why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the government and the parties that support it have done nothing other than introduce mistrust in this sector, running away from investors and owners. The results, these,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u78	They're in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u79	...are in sight of all! Mrs Mariana Mortágua, noticed in 2018 the conclusion of new rental contracts for housing fell and the incomes, these, rose 9, 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u80	Sure! And why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u81	Do you know who says so, Mrs. Member? It's not us, it's the suspicious National Institute of Statistics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u82	I take this opportunity to announce to the House something which is obvious: that Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs and Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs are present. For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are appreciating Decree-Law No. 19 / 2019, which the Government presented with an objective. The CDS agrees with the goal, but it has doubts — serious doubts! — in relation to the means. And I'll explain. The objective is to raise investment, whether national or foreign, and to create conditions of competitiveness in Portugal for attracting investment. We welcome the objective, but it is, of course, unfortunate that when it comes to far more comprehensive issues, such as the IRC, the Government does not have any of these concerns of competitiveness and attracting investment. But, finally, if you can't go to what would be structural measures, you'd better go to a few small measures. Before this thing of nothing! I was saying that we have some doubts about the means, and I will explain why. This diploma is, above all, dedicated to the real estate sector and not to housing and I would like to understand why this sector is chosen as a privileged foreign investment attraction, and there are already other measures aimed at the real estate sector or for residential tourism, finally, what you want to call it — that is, on the one hand. We also know, and it is true, that the problems of housing, contrary to what seems to think the leftmost benches and, occasionally, also the Socialist Party, do not resolve themselves by making it impossible to build houses or by making the lease a nightmare for lords. This only leads, in the medium term, of course, to fewer houses to rent and more housing problems. What we liked to realize is how much this diploma will make it easier to rent and invest in housing, or, on the contrary, it just becomes easier and fiscally more advantageous the management of existing heritage. If the purpose of the decree-law is that, as stated in its preamble, be called for investment in housing, then why is there no distinction in the articulation between investment in real estate for housing and investment in real estate for what it is for? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u84	In the meantime, the Bureau no longer registers, not even by the government bench. [[Pause.]] Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has just signed up. You have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to contribute to making this discussion useful and focused on the diploma that is under consideration. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in particular, raised several hypotheses for her questions, only did not raise one: that of apparently Mrs Mariana Mortágua herself did not understand what is in the diploma. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I will try to help this debate. The social object of SIGI is that of real rights of enjoyment on buildings, for the purpose of their economic exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u86	And the lease?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u87	We are talking about a limitation on the social object which is very clear in the diploma. What the diploma also says is that these buildings must be held for their economic exploitation for at least three years. That's what the diploma says.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u88	And the lease?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u89	With this, we seek to promote a market for economic exploitation of real estate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u90	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u91	... which is exactly the opposite of real estate speculation. In other words, investment in real estate is intended to be used by people, housing, business, commercial lease, or other forms of economic exploitation — under ‘economic exploitation’.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u92	We have no doubt about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u93	What we want to do with this is to help the market to have a greater supply, so that, as the old law of supply and demand says, prices can inversely follow up what is the increase in real estate supply for — again and again — economic exploitation. That's what we're talking about. The tax system that is associated with it is that already exists for real estate investment companies, because this is a category of real estate investment companies, which ensures that taxation is made on the way out. That is not why this diploma provides for an annual income distribution requirement for its participants to ensure the constance of tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing the government wants to hide. What the government wants is to encourage the economic exploitation of the real estate market. It is in this matter and in this dimension that this proposal is presented, which is the opposite of the real estate speculation that Mrs Mariana Mortágua spoke here in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u94	Before giving the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in order to conclude this debate, I would like to inform the House that three drafts of termination of this decree have entered the Bureau. To announce them, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by the President, draft resolutions Nos 2115 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 2117 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 2119 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 19 / 2019 of 28 January approving the scheme of investment companies and real estate management ( SIGI ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u96	You now have the floor to close the debate, not Mrs Mariana Mortágua, but Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In fact, this decree is so good that the Socialist Party itself is obliged to make changes in what it sees that it does not need to change and in what it says it does not need to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u99	In fact, what we can understand here today, and it seems to be in common agreement between the various benches, is that we are talking about a decree that : wants to provide housing, when it does not guarantee that it provides housing; wants to encourage long-term lease contracts, when it does not provide for them;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u101	...that he wants to respond to a housing crisis, when he does not respond to a housing crisis. They may once again call it 'Maria Albertina', but what we are talking about here is, in fact, a measure that promotes real estate business, which guarantees private financing that the State does not control, funding that will be applied to the greatest profits these initiatives have, will make the national economy more dependent on international oscillations and can still create a real estate bubble, not guaranteeing any public policy for housing. This is what we are talking about today: this decree does not provide any guarantee that these buildings are intended for housing or housing with affordable income or long-term housing. This is a fact! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u102	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the third item on our agenda is thus concluded. of the fourth point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 2039 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency climate change fund. To present this initiative, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today recommends to the Government the establishment of an emergency fund for climate change. In practice, it recommends that the Government reserve a sum of EUR 30 million from the Environment Fund, which seems to us to be the most appropriate financing instrument to deal with emergency situations. The year 2019 is the fourth consecutive year of drought. After, in 2016, farmers claimed extra support—for animal nutrition or for compensating the costs added with the water—supports which the Government did not give, the CDS proposed a set of emergency contingency measures that were not implemented. The year 2017 was the tragic year we all know. For this reason, in the framework of the State Budget for 2018, we proposed the creation of an emergency fund for drought to respond to the needs of water supply to populations and also to economic activities, particularly agriculture. This proposal was rejected by the PS, the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens. The year 2018 was once again a dry year. The « waters of March », as the singer said, came to abrupt the discussion on this drought and this need, to the point Mr. Minister of the Environment said this morning that there was no drought in 2018. However, the CDS has not forgotten and therefore resubmitted the proposal in the context of the State Budget for 2019, with a broader object not only for drought, but to cope with emergencies caused by climate change. The proposal was rejected again by the PS, the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens. Believing that these four years will have been enough for everyone in this House to consider this matter of utmost relevance and urgency, we are now proposing the creation of this emergency fund for climate change. Mrs. Members, civil society has already realized that we need to be prepared for emergencies and, including, the council that set the criteria for compensation for the victims of fires has defended this precisely a week ago. In the CDS, we are sure that the reason has always been on our side, so we hope that this project will be welcomed by all banks this time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u104	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change and its impact on our lives and our country have been a concern of the Socialist Party government. In 2016, the Government created the Environmental Fund by adding four other funds: the Portuguese Carbon Fund, the Environmental Intervention Fund, the Water Resources Protection Fund and the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Fund. This decision enabled resources to be concentrated on an instrument with greater financial capacity and greater effectiveness in responding to the challenges posed by climate change, working in the preservation of natural resources, in the prevention of risks and in the repair of ecological damage. Since its creation, the Environmental Fund, in conjunction with the municipalities, has been effective in responding to extreme events, such as: water supply to populations, in the event of extreme drought; recovery of water lines and riparian galleries most affected by the fires of 2017; recovery of damage on the coastal shore, due to the occurrence of the storms Emma, Félix and Gisele, in 2018. Since its establishment in 2017, this Fund has already invested EUR 51, EUR 6 million in climate change mitigation and adaptation projects and in 2019 the value is expected to rise to EUR 75, EUR 8 million. We therefore understand that the Environmental Fund has responded to climate change situations, not only at the level of prevention, but also at the level of response to emergencies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS comes here today to propose the creation of a new fund, funded by the Fund that currently exists, to respond to a case arising from climate change and which already has a response in the current Fund. By the will of the CDS, EUR 30 million would be taken to respond only to the supply of water to populations and other economic activities — it is not well known what this means — even though these situations have already responded to the Environment Fund and the situations of greater seriousness have responded to the Municipal Emergency Fund and other instruments available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u107	For the Socialist Party, this initiative does not add any added value, rather it would bring more entropy and more inefficiency in response to the populations. This initiative of the CDS is only and only one more exercise of demagogy and electoralism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u108	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Angela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We follow the concerns about climate change and its consequences, but we must remember that they are essentially the result of man's action on nature. The big question is whether this concern for our collective future will succeed or whether, on the contrary, selfishness and economic ambitions will continue to prevail. If, on the one hand, there is the recognition that the planet Earth is a heritage of all and that it is necessary to ensure the preservation of its inhabitability, on the other hand, it cannot fail to cause perplexity and indignation the disproportionateness between the severity of the problem and the lack of urgent solutions. As the main objective is to find effective solutions to combat climate change, the adoption of measures has been clearly insufficient, due to the impositions of economic power and capitalist markets, favouring a strategy for the marketing of natural resources, penalizing populations and nature. It is scientifically proven that the climate change and the wrong territory policies followed decades ago are the cause of many extreme phenomena that humans have witnessed, for example in the specific case of Portugal, the increase in forest fires, the emphasis on coastal erosion and the more frequent periods of extreme drought. These phenomena require research, evaluation, planning, investment and implementation of policies aimed at an immediate and thorough response to such scourges. I cannot fail to mention that the growing occurrence of fires, especially those of greater size, is associated with climate change, particularly the rise of average temperature and drought periods, and cannot also be turned off from political options that have led to desertification of the interior and abandonment and forest disorder. The same can be said regarding drought periods, which are becoming more frequent and intense. We defend that a plan is needed that goes beyond mitigation and contingency measures. We defend that structural measures are needed, with a plan that hierarchies water according to drought, and in order to achieve this goal the management of water in the public sphere is essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u111	The CFP has always defended and proposed the creation of mechanisms capable of underpinning and agitating procedures, allowing for rapid planning, investment and action with a view to preventing and resolving damage caused by disasters. We must invest in prevention, whose costs will always be lower than those of combating the consequences, costs that cannot even be equalized economically, humanly or politically when it comes to life, communities and heritage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens would like to say that this CDS initiative we are discussing today does not make it effective on the issues of combating and mitigating climate change or even on adaptation processes. The CDS proposes the creation, within the Environment Fund, of an emergency fund with EUR 30 million — and we could always ask ourselves about what this value would be for — but, basically, nothing changes. So what you propose is to create a fund with a different name, providing it with 30 million. Does it seem to you that this solves something, Your Honor? Does it seem to you that this will solve some of the problems we face with regard to climate change? Don't! That is simply to pretend that they do something eventually to cleanse themselves of what you have done in the past. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer a statement that you have made — in my view, with great disillusionment — when you said that, on this matter, the reason has always been on our side, that is to say, on your side, because it has been said by the mouth of the honourable Member. That's not true, as you know. And we could recall, for example, the famous "Crist Assumption law" of treeization and re-arborization, that is, that law that became known as the "liberalization of the eucalyptus". This was the way you promoted the fragility of our forest, with the exponential increase of eucalyptus monocultures, knowing what the repercussions of this phenomenon, for example at the level of forest fires. Or we could remember how you did not at least comply with the National Plan for the Efficient Use of Water,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u114	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u115	... which, as you will agree, is an extremely important subject in relation to the issue of climate change. Or we could remember something that takes you all the right way: the compulsive closure of railway lines that have been carried out through this country and the way in which they have harmed the response of collective transport to users. As you see, Mrs. Member, we can't give you any reason! Or we could remember how they tried to privatize the transport sector, putting it at the service of the interests of the companies and not at the service of the interests of the citizens. Or even — take a good look, Mrs. Deputies! — we could recall what the then Minister for Finances Vítor Gaspar said, who seems to me to have been from your Government, Mrs Deputy, when you put the possibility of privatization of water, including water from Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u117	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, in fact, I do not know whether this project means a request by the CDS to clear some consciousness of all these negative responsibilities you have had, but, Mrs Deputy, honestly in terms of effectiveness, this project is nothing. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u118	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Coimbra for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of climate change has been widely discussed in this House. We all know that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind, that we are in a counter-relosion and that within a few years what we will be able to do will be completely irrelevant to the final outcome of this battle. We all also know that Portugal is one of the countries most exposed to the effects of climate change, its impacts and its devastating consequences. This reality has always been very clear to the PSD, which has always placed in its agenda and in its political action both the environment and the climate. In the previous Legislature, under the leadership of the PSD, Portugal took a leading role internationally, uniting, in a single growth strategy, the economy, the environment and climate policy. It was in this context that we collaborated in the preparation of the Paris Agreement. This is also how we revisited the National Program for Climate Change (PNAC), which revisited the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy (ENAAC) and defined the Strategic Framework for Climate Policy ( QEPIC ). It was, in fact, with the government led by the PSD that Portugal rose in all international rankings... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u120	...with regard to climate policy, even entering the world top 3. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the CDS presents us with a proposal which is a follow-up to another proposal that it made in the discussion of the State budget, a proposal which has some relevance, but which at that time took up the abstention of the PSD. The PSD has abstained from a logic of not overburdening public accounts, since it is understood that the Environmental Fund itself already has mechanisms and ways to meet this priority. We did it at that time, as we do today. We made proposals, focused on implementing measures to combat climate change and called for more transparency in the management and distribution of the Environment Fund. We did it at that time, as we do today. The management, implementation and management of the Environment Fund is the responsibility of the Minister of Environment and Energy Transition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u121	The Minister of the Environment must assume this responsibility without a tibiass. The Environmental Fund, which already finances several projects in this area, may and should be available for extraordinary reinforcements and allocations in urgent or force majeure situations. This is also provided for in Article 7. the decree-law that created it and should therefore address the most urgent situations also in the context of climate change and drought that we pass through. The Minister for the Environment has to be careful and must ensure that this is the case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u122	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unbelievable that the CDS shows concern about climate change, when all the positions it takes are in the opposite direction either to mitigation or to adaptation. contrary to what you want to understand, the CDS supports oil exploration and defends the increase in livestock production. But, more serious than supporting livestock production, it is to defend the use of public money to support this polluter sector. The CDS has a completely opposite view to the Paris Agreement, which advocates that we should adapt to the territory and not the territory to adapt to us. The CDS comes to defend an emergency fund for climate change, but it is waning to adapt the territory so that an emergency fund is not required. The CDS defends the construction of large dams to maintain irrigation crops, such as the superintensive olive tree,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u124	It's bad for the NAP to lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u125	... responsible for inefficient and irresponsible use of water. When you don't bet on the play, the CDS bet on the eucalyptus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u126	You lie a thousand times! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u127	... that, in addition to consuming more water than native species, desertifies soils, is highly flammable and fuelable, making the territory increasingly vulnerable to catastrophic events. For the CDS, it is enough an emergency fund, without realizing that there are no millions coming to the destination that awaits us, if we do not take effective adaptation measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u128	Not supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u129	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, by the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The analysis made by the CDS in this draft resolution is, in fact, correct. Our country is and will be one of the countries of Europe most affected by climate change. This is due to our geographical location, but also to the political options taken, especially in the past, as regards how to prevent the effects of human action on the planet and our country. Now, what we are discussing in this proposal is not combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u132	And if the CDS hasn't forgotten, neither have we! We must not fail to recall the initiatives that have in fact not taken in the Government to reverse the effects of climate change, which they already felt in 2012. Basically, they prayed for it to rain and had so much faith in which it would rain, that at the same time they were working in the privatization of public transport in Porto and Lisbon, which, fortunately, this majority parliament has reverted, and also opened space to exploration and exploitation of oil. The options of the PSD Government and the CDS, a part of them, I say once again, reverted by this majority, would not only have prevented the bet now made on public transport and the reduction of transport rates for reducing emissions, as would increase the ecological footprint by allowing fossil fuels to be extracted from Portuguese territory. Nor do we forget the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, this species that sucks resources, in particular — see there! — water. And, yes, much of the need for mitigation that we are discussing here today is your work. Now, let's go back to the present: what response to prevention does the CDS have to give? on a day when we celebrate the non-building of Fridão dam, we have the CDS asking for emergency mitigation measures for errors such as this could be, and how I still think they may exist. Have we heard anything about the preservation of aquifers? About ensuring the Vale de Fachas aquifer, which allowed the water transfer to Fagilde in 2017, and is now threatened by the path of a road, which will cross it and contaminate it? Yeah, nothing! Strict limitation to glyphosate that contaminates water? Yes, nothing at all, I would say very much the opposite! Any word about intensive agriculture that fats in the Alentejo and that, in addition to adding water stress to the Alqueva enterprise, deserts the soils, preventing the recharge of groundwater, intensifying soil salinization? Oh, my God! Yes, very well, Mrs. Member, nothing too! We already know, Mrs. Member, and the world already knows, that quick thinking is not a solution and, fortunately, these decisions are no longer in your hands. What they bring here today is not even holy water, it is just a mere fireworks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u133	The Bureau no longer registers, so we can conclude this debate with the closing intervention of the CDS-PP, by Mrs Patrícia Fonseca. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I understand how uncomfortable the left has been for not presenting any project and not having come to debate on this matter, because concern with climate change all seems to have. Mr João Marques, the CDS is indeed proposing an environmental fund captivating of EUR 30 million. That's exactly it! Do you know why, Your Honor? Because if it were so easy to mobilize for this kind of matter the funds of the Environmental Fund, in 2016 farmers had not been without any support! When farmers came to ask, because they did not have hay to feed their animals and had no water to water their fields, the Minister for Agriculture did not have enough political weight to speed up the demobilisation of the measures and the funds. If this captivity existed, it could already have happened. And, Mr President — to respond here to several interventions — in 2012, when there was austerity, there was also sensitivity and 45 million euros were applied from the State budget for the exemption of water resources rates, the exemption for social security contributions, aid for animal nutrition and other support for farmers. Now, turned to the austerity page, there is only money to hire tank trucks to take water from the Eagle to Fagilde, to hire tank trucks, leaving them out of warning, in case there is a lack of water. But this doesn't matter at all, because the appreciation of the interior, in the option of the left benches, is just to stay on paper. As far as concern is concerned with those who manage, occupy and take account of two thirds of our territory, you do not have a word to say. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u135	« Good Prayer Friar Thomas »!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u136	We will continue with the last point of our agenda, which is that of the general appraisal of Bill No. 944 / XIII / 3. a ( Citizens) — Full consideration of the teaching service time provided during the accounting suspensions prior to 2018, for the purposes of progression and remunerative valuation, together with the assessment of Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, which mitigates the effects of the freezing occurred between 2011 and 2017 in the teaching career[ Parliamentary Assessments No 127 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 126 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). Before we start the debate, I would like to point out that the Minister for Education and the Members are present. State Secretary of Education, Administration and Public Employment and Budget. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of this intervention are for the thousands and thousands of teachers and educators who, together with their unions, have fought to defend the right to full counting of the time of service and who today are also concentrated at the door of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Since the first hour, the CFP has voiced in Parliament the fair demands of the teachers, as well as of the other workers of the careers and bodies of the Public Administration, such as the military, personnel of the security forces and services, health, justice, among others, where the problem of counting the time of service lies. The point at which we are today is not the same as we were in 2017, at the time of the declaration of commitment signed between the Government and the trade unions ; it is not the same as the approval of the State budget for 2018 or of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018 ; it is not the same as the failure by the Government to comply with the State budget for 2018. It's more than that! This is the point where all of this has happened that is behind and where the government is trying again to fail to comply with what has been enshrined, this time in the state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u138	A farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u139	This is the point where the Government of the Socialist Party has chosen to condemn the negotiation process to failure and where trade unions and workers have turned to the Assembly of the Republic, demanding that its problem could, through it, find a solution, to the negotiating boycott suffered by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u140	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u141	No one can today deny the need for the Assembly of the Republic to take a final decision on this problem, given that there are already recovery processes in force in Madeira and the Azores, resulting from negotiations with the trade unions and that they can be adopted and adapted to the continent. Teachers and educators, by the hand of more than 60 000 signatures delivered by trade union organisations, have petitioned for the terms in which an understanding of the full compliance with Article 17 can be reached. the Law of the State Budget and the elimination of serious problems, illegalities and injustices contained in Decree-Law No. 36 / 2019, of 15 March, among them, the blackout of more than six and a half years of service accomplished by teachers and the overcomings by teachers with equal or less time of service, which result in a gigantic attack on the teaching career. Thus, the question that arises today is not to redeploy, over and over again, the whole discussion and revive the whole process of counting the time of service. We cannot be constantly returning to the zero stake of a problem that has zero negotiating will on the part of those who were obliged to have resolved in 2018 — the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u143	The question that arises today is whether decisions will be taken to resolve definitely the question of counting the time of service, the phase-up of recovery, the ways in which it can be found for this to happen. The position of the CFP is clear: in our proposals we translate the compromise we have made with the teachers of a definitive solution because of this parliamentary assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u145	We do not push recovery to Greek calendars, deceiving teachers with conditions and criteria that can make this process imperishable. Today, and here, the Portuguese Communist Party reaffirms its proposals and objectives. First: ensure full accounting of service time. It is 9 years, 4 months and 2 days that have to count for career progression, because it was time worked. Second : adopt the same negotiated solution, in terms of phase-out, between the trade unions and the regional government of Madeira, which corresponds to 7 years. Third, in 2019, ensure the recovery of the time provided for in the government decree. Fourth : to eliminate the existence of surpluses resulting from the rules provided for in the decree of law of the Government. Fifth: enable the use of service time for retirement or exemption from obtaining a vacancy by the teacher's option. Sixth: to ensure that the work rendered as a hired teacher is relevant for the purposes of progression, ensuring non-discrimination based on the nature of the bond. The proposals we present correspond to the expectations of teachers and their fair demands. What the CFP wants is that they can be approved by the broadest possible majority, in a process of speedy speciality, which we advocate has to be completed even before the suspension of parliamentary work, because of the elections to the European Parliament in May. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rights of workers must be respected. The counting of service time is a right that has to be ensured. The CFP will continue to intervene alongside teachers and educators today and always so that this can be a reality. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u146	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u147	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet all the teachers and teachers who are in the galleries and also outside the Assembly, with whom I have also had the opportunity to be with. I now leave to you the example of Prof. Maria de Lurdes, who has 15 years of service and who began to teach in 2004. Each year, however, he took a postgraduate degree, but for 14 years he won the basic career salary. Now, 14 years later, with the thawing, this teacher went to 2. The stairwell. What this means is that, after one third of your professional life, this teacher is now starting her career, because they wanted to take you a decade of service time. This teacher is probably one of the youngest teachers in the teaching system. For her the concern now is whether the little more than 1200 € liquids arrive to support two houses or for the transports she will probably have to pay for being a dislocated teacher, like many of her age and with her years of service. But there are teachers with 20, 24, 26 years of career who, with the freezing time, were imprisoned in 2. o No. 3. or, no more than 4. the step and for these the question and the problem is not only the broken promise of the right to a career, the problem is also the certainty of a reform when they arrive to the old, a reform that worsened with the 10 years they retired while working. It's 9 years, 4 months and 2 days and not another hour! Teachers do not ask for more than one hour, do not ask for retroactive, do not ask for privileges, only ask for what is their right, which is their right to career and career, not to any other, nor to the rules of general careers with which they have invented a sdruxual calculation called the standard modulus. It's not three years less a bit and it's not two years and three rooms either, it's almost a decade of service, work dedicated to public school and it has to be recognized. And that was exactly what the government had to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u149	Mandate of the Assembly of the Republic, in the resolution adopted, and the PS did not vote against ; term of office of the Assembly of the Republic in the State Budget for 2018 ; term of office of the Assembly of the Republic in the State Budget for 2019 ; and term of office, also in the declaration of commitment signed by the Government with the unions. The government has failed! The government failed, because it never wanted to do negotiations nor tried to get to the right port, and failed to respect the teachers, when it imposed a solution that robs six and a half years of service and creates an avalanche of overruns. It is a mess with a sad outcome, because it now proposes to teachers a situation of inequality with their colleagues in Madeira and the Azores and an amputated recovery of time to one third. The government failed because it wanted to put the European Minister of Finance's career in front of teachers' career and teachers' rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, as the government has failed, it is now Parliament's time. Now is the legitimate and constitutional moment to bring here the parliamentary opinions, which are the right of a Parliament that wants to be entirely in its sovereignty. Now this is what the Left Block here is doing: to propose a solution that responds to the teachers and that is responsible for the country, because it defends the public school. A solution that proposes the full recovery of service time, with an immediate recovery of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days and the phase up of the rest up to 2025 with the possibility of access to the 5. a is 7. the steps and the early reform. This is the Bloc proposal, which meets the objectives of the trade unions and does not ignore the mobilization around a citizens' legislative initiative. We with the Socialist Party already know we don't count. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD comes here in a way of « grasping me or I will go to them». [[PSD protests.]] Give one hand to the teachers and then give the other to Mário Centeno and leave the teachers without visible rights on their maturity sheet. [[PSD protests.]] He says you have to recognize the rights of teachers, but without counting the time. It is necessary to respond to teachers but without disturbing Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u150	The Budget is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u151	We need to answer the teachers but not move on the deficit. And with many « but», the PSD tries to deceive teachers,... [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u152	Four years, four budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u153	...in an electoral game that discredits Parliament and fails in what was the word given to the teachers. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, if it is true that they want to return the time of service to the teachers here we are for that. [[PSD protests.]] The chance is now! This is the time of Parliament, it is the time for debate in the specialty and to see who really is on the side of the teachers. Our vows count, they're 19 and they're all with the teachers! [[PSD protests.]] There's a lot more votes here to tell, let's see which side they'll be on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u154	The red lines are now pink!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can do whatever you want, but interrupt the speakers' speeches is that it is neither correct nor allowed. Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today in a debate marked by several voices. The voice of more than 20 000 citizens who have presented a legislative initiative, which we welcome here for the exercise of citizenship that makes democracy live; the three parliamentary assessments presented and the proposals of all the parties that make up the Assembly, with the exception of the Socialist Party ; the voice of the 10 trade union organisations, with a petition that collected more than 60 000 signatures; and, of course, the voice and presence of many teachers who are in the galleries and outside the Assembly. No one will doubt the need for a wide and deep dissatisfaction with the government in order to bring about this confluence of initiatives. The PSD is present in this debate with a proposal, and is present for two reasons: first, because the government has created a problem, it has taken two years to realise that it solves it... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u157	... and, after much ambiguity, incompetence and suspense, eventually dazzled in the master of tricks, assumed that this disappeared without having to fulfill the given word. [[PSD applause.]] But the problem is not those who solve themselves. The government was unable to solve the problem it created and expanded and today the government is a problem in itself, and it is up to the Portuguese to solve it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u158	The second reason is the commitment that the PSD, the largest Portuguese party, has to do with the country. This is a commitment of responsibility and trust, which motivates us to do more and more better and to solve the serious problems created by demagogic governments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u160	... in the same way that legitimates us to be an alternative to the future at all times. [[PSD applause.]] Education, either because of its role in the training of citizens or because of the potential for competitiveness, is central to the development of the future of Portugal. After four years with the lowest levels of investment this millennium, it is not expected to aim for better results in the education system without the active participation of a valued teaching body. We need good teachers in an increasingly demanding society. Therefore, the PSD comes, by this means, to assume its responsibilities on behalf of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u161	He's out of the fridge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u162	We are aware that the freezing of teacher careers — always initiated by socialist governments, both in 2005 and 2011 —... [[PSD applause.]] ... emerged in the context of major budgetary challenges, which motivated difficult decisions in the past and which were overcome with the contribution of the Portuguese. Even though there are no negligible uncertainties, it is necessary to look at the future and carefully adjust today's reality to tomorrow's ambition. This adjustment cannot, as in the Government's diploma, compromise confidence in social consultation processes or deceive, believing that it gives what it is not giving, nor can, as in the case of government partners, be a demagogic adjustment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u164	... with the danger of falling into the ease of announcing ambitious proposals that will never be implemented, due to financial unsustainableness or even unconstitutionality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u165	The appreciation of teachers, to be effective, must be understood and assumed by all, even by those citizens who are not teachers or having children or grandchildren in school, see themselves on the path that is being traced for the future. The PSD proposal is serious with the main agents of a demanding and quality education service, but it is primarily responsible because it strategically thinks the best interests of students and the country. It is a proposal that assumes the full accounting of the time of service which has been frozen — 9 years, 4 months and 2 days — in respect of the expenditure rule contained in the Stability and Growth Pact. [[PSD applause.]] It is a proposal that ensures that 2 years, 9 months and 18 days are already accounted for in 2019, and not just six years from now, as is the case for some teachers in the Government proposal. Do so in respect of the norm-work, given the word given by the Minister of Finance that an appropriation for the purpose in the State budget for 2019, and taking into account the recent confidence of the employer, that "there are sufficient degrees of freedom for the evolution of wages in public service to resume normality" — Mário Centeno's words.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u166	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u167	It is a proposal that enhances social dialogue as an undeniable area of commitment in democracy, which has been underestimated by the current government, and is a proposal that safeguards the separation of powers, transparency and respect for the powers and responsibilities of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. It is a proposal establishing compromise criteria with the medium- and long-term society which, in the negotiation process, will allow to define the terms and the way in which the recovery of the remaining time will take place with effect next year. These criteria go through the future sustainability of the public education system, rejuvenation of teaching staff, career review, retirement and future needs of the system, and the resources available in the face of the country's situation, economic growth and public debt. The Social Democratic Party is not afraid to make choices, it knows how difficult it is to make them in undesirable times. in a time of populism, we maintain commitment to truth and seriousness to the alternative of cheating, giving to buy votes or giving alms to shut up those who bother. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u168	But we also know how to give and give good by assuming the price of social justice and commitment to future generations. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u169	We say that this House and all parties know how to value the balance between the country's effort and the value of education, voting in favour of our proposal. The PSD proposal is responsible and represents a last opportunity for this government to solve the problem it has created or, if so, not to preserve its wit and art, our government commitment from October. The PSD gives hope to teachers again, especially by valuing the future of education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u170	Where'd I hear this? Oh, my God! We've seen this movie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u171	Mrs Margarida Mano, Mr Porfirio Silva has signed up for clarification. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u172	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Mano, we do not agree with the parties on our left when they devalue the control of deficit and debt, when they want to deviate from the Budget we approved together for 2019, but at least these parties are not always inventing a different speech from each time we discuss these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The PSD position is much more similar to a two-sided policy. Today, the PSD proposes to anticipate spending on the remuneration of these professionals, but a PSD Vice-President still stood for exactly the opposite. They didn't tell me, Prof. David Justino said it in a debate on the radio with me, in which he criticized the government for the increase in payroll expenditure in the Public Administration. David Justino said that this increase in wage spending meant mortgageting the future. After all, who wants to fool us? The PSD Vice-President or the PSD Parliamentary Group Vice-President? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We've seen this two-sided PSD movie before. Before the 2011 elections, we all saw and heard Rabbit Steps guarantee at foot together that it would not increase taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u173	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u174	...that could not be the pensioners and pensioners paying for the crisis,... [[PSD protests.]] ...that the country needed no more austerity... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u175	Mr Porfirio Silva, let me interrupt you. I would ask Mr Duarte Marques to have the same respect for the speaker who spoke on behalf of the PSD Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said, Steps Rabbit criticized the cuts in public services and we even heard it, on April 1st, saying it was a nonsense to cut the 13th. the month. For what? Then rule against everything he said. [[PSD protests.]] The problem is that the PSD again entered electoral campaign mode, which, for the PSD, is the two-sided mode: the PSD leadership says one thing, the Members say another.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u177	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u178	In fact, even the PSD Members are now saying something today, something else tomorrow. PSD Member Duarte Marques said at the end of 2017 that what was in the PSD program was to do the thawing without increasing the state's spending with employees. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] They wanted a runoff without expense! Look at that! But they never moved a straw to make the thawing! We did it, obviously, with expenditure! But now, having entered election campaign mode, the PSD has two sides. And for teachers the PSD face in power would again be the PACC (Knowledge Assessment and Capabilities Test), requalification as a dismissal door, the tens of thousands of teachers that you have taken from public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Madam Member, since you propose here the opposite of those who, in your party, criticize the increase in expenditure, what taxes do you want to increase to cover the difference? Or do you also think that controlling deficit and debt is a Brussels tax that we should not respect? [[PSD protests.]] From the point of view of PS, the issue of careers must be treated with equality between workers and between careers. Of course, in the government and in the PS, we wanted to go further, but as « Rome and Pavia did not do one day » it is important that the solution found is fair because it is equivalent to all careers. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The question of equity does not matter to the PSD? Will your proposal be extended to all employees of the Public Administration? And how much does it cost in that case? The PSD decided to ignore the President of the Republic's notice, which warned at the time of promulgation that a parliamentary assessment should not question the limits of the 2019 Budget. If the PSD presents an unconstitutional proposal, which violates the brake standard, is the PSD wanting to deceive teachers, presenting a project that knows it cannot become law because it violates the Constitution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u179	It's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u180	Mr Porfirio Silva, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, it was the PSD government that went beyond the troika, cutting more EUR 1200 million than was provided for in the memorandum of understanding in the area of education. [[PSD protests.]] Once again—and you deduce this from the reading of your proposals—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u182	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u183	... PSD thinks there are more teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u184	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u185	...and so he wants to pay for your measure by firing teachers. That is what you do when you get to power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u186	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Margarida Mano.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u187	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, the honourable Member and the Members of the Socialist Party must be desperate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u188	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u189	They're, they're, they're, they're,
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u190	If you want to talk about Pedro Passos Coelho, then I remember that the Portuguese and the teachers remember well that in May 2011 the Minister of Finance of a socialist government came to say that there was no money to pay the salaries of public officials,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u191	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u192	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u193	But there was already for PPPs!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u194	But I would like to remind you of something of this legislation, much closer in time, that the Portuguese and the teachers remember well: Mr. Deputies and the Members of the Socialist Party voted for a resolution in January 2018 which recommended to their Government that, for the purposes of progress, if it were to count all the time, all the time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u195	That's a recommendation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u196	Who is changing the word is the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u197	Why don't you answer the questions I asked you?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u198	It's not worth answering because teachers and the country know all this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u199	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u200	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u201	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u202	What does the conduct of the work look like?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u203	Mr President, it is to request the distribution of documentation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u204	Is it, then, for the distribution of documentation? Just tell us what the documentation you want to distribute, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u205	Mr. President, I will hand the Bureau a sheet with several links... [[PSD laughter and protests.]] ... that account for the statements of several PSD officials mentioned here and which support the questions to which the PSD did not answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u206	Mr, you can't take any account. Bring this sheet to the table, which the Bureau will give you the destination due.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u208	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u209	Mr President, it is also for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u210	Please say, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u211	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute to the members of the Government present the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018, on which I spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u212	Mrs. Deputy, the request is registered. The document will be distributed by the Bureau. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All political parties, without exception, know that if the freezing of public administration careers was a difficult and extreme political decision, thawing would have to be a political decision reflected and would inevitably be complex, because there were expectations generated during the years of suspension, because there were several changes to the different careers and because, of course, there is a considerable budgetary impact, which was, moreover, the reason for the first freezing in 2005 in the PS Government of José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u214	And António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u215	The minimum requirement for the PS Government of António Costa was that it had studied and planned the defrosting of all and each of the Public Administration's careers, so that it could make the power transparent, without intentional infinitions, justly, without hiding the limitations, and sustainably, because it was clear that its effects would be heavy and would not be exhausted in a legislature. But the PS government of António Costa, because he did nothing of this, was entangled in contradictions and contests and, instead of governing, chose to play. And he played with the words, played with the time, played with Parliament, played with the unions, with the teachers, with the school, with the students and their families. « You have my word that I will fight radically for the rights of teachers », said the Minister of Education, on 2 November 2018. « The correction of frozen service time is material whose terms, limits, conditions and phases will be the subject of trade union negotiation », said Alexandra Leitão, on 15 November 2018. “ When we defuse the careers of public servants, (...) do not forget who we are talking about, we talk about women and men ‘ who teach our children. ’ (...) Again, we are not giving them anything that is not their right or doing any favor. We are only complying with the law and the contracts that the State has signed. » — said Pedro Nuno Santos, on November 27, 2018. It was with these commitments that the 2018 State Budget passed, with the favorable votes of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP. But nothing these rulers have said has come true as they have said. The narrative was changing and, on the basis of an opaque account, so far unknown from the CDS, the Government presented its unnegotiable proposal for recovery of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on 15 June 2018, in this same forum, the CDS made its position clear. And I quote: « It was the government's obligation to have presented a transparent plan for the thawing of all Public Administration careers, including the teaching career. The CDS requires you to present it now, clarifying everything that will have to be negotiated: time, career, wages, evaluation and retirement. A plan which implies commitments for the future and which, therefore, has to go through this Parliament ». Before that date, and above all after that date, the CDS met numerous times with all the representatives of the teachers — all: consolidated trade union structures, new trade union structures, individual teachers and promoters of the citizens' legislative initiative, now brought to this discussion. throughout this process, we have maintained the same position, we have always stated the same, without shadow games, without mermaid corners, looking forward to the teachers, but also all the citizens we represent. Consequently, the CDS today brings its proposal to amend the Government's Decree-Law by stating: that the freezing time was 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, maintaining the 2 years, 9 months and 18 days of the Government's proposal and accompanying Mr. President of the Republic at the time of the promulgation of the diploma, ensuring that teachers do not remain without any recovery in their career and that it is already assured in 2019 ; by establishing new negotiations in 2020, with new Government and new Budget, to continue the full replacement of the time of service, weighted the country's economic and financial capacity and considering the status of career and retirement in the last few steps. Here is an opportunity to deal with two critical problems: the aging of teachers and the need to re-evaluate the profession, making it attractive to younger ones. Our aim, with the limited information available, since the Government has refused to send Parliament the study of the financial impact, is to propose a just solution for teachers, for the entire Public Administration and for taxpayers in general; sustainable, so that we do not discuss freezings again in the near future; and stable, preserving students and families from a turbulence to which they are outside and which always harms them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an election year and there is no way to ignore this context. At the same time, the Government, while saying that the solution for teachers was not provided for in its programme and that it has a clearly exceptional character, has already announced that the exception will ultimately be the rule for the remaining Public Administration careers. The parties that supported the government mobilized on the street and radicalized themselves into an electoral "all or nothing". By not knowing the amounts, they set payment dates up to 2025, believing that they can link at least two more legislatures, two parliaments and two governments. The risk of the Left Block and PCP game is the demagogy to promise everything without having to guarantee anything. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But not accepting responsible and solidarity solutions between citizens and generations is also a game in which no one wins: neither teachers, nor, above all, the least guilty, the students, with pre-announced strikes already for the third period, and not even the public school, wounded in their constitutional duty to teach. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived here because of the government's interference with the support of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u216	Government interference? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u217	So in this Parliamentary assessment, what is being discussed is not whether there is a problem, but what is the best solution. And between popularity with some and responsibility with everyone, the CDS knows exactly what the way must be. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u218	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We are debating today again the recovery of the time of service of educators and teachers. This debate is inseparable from an indelible brand of this legislation: we again bet on public school and we resumed a strategy of valorization of education professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It was the extraordinary linkage of 7000 teachers; the reduction of the norm-work from five to three years in any recruitment group, which in 2019 represents the binding of more 566 teachers; the creation of the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u220	As for the teachers of Music and Dance of specialized artistic education, it was the extraordinary linkage and the new specific legal regime of recruitment and selection; the inclusion of the time of intervals in the educational component 1. the cycle and the standardization of the school calendar, from pre-school to secondary education;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u221	... regulation of access to 5. a is 7. the steps, with an increase of 4000 vacancies in 2019; the defrosting of careers and the repositioning of about 11 000 teachers; the investment of 19 million euros in continuing teacher training. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u222	This is investing in public school and its professionals. This is respect for the teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defrosting of careers is part of this work of valorization of employees of the Public Administration. We have met this commitment on time, but soon a new issue arose: the recovery of service time, which was not in the PS electoral programme, nor in the Government programme, nor in the agreements between the PS and the other left-wing parliamentary parties. As a new issue, with heavy budgetary implications, we have always said that it would have to be negotiated. The Government has precisely sought to find a solution by negotiation. Therefore, the government's position has evolved, approaching the union position, proposing the recovery of almost three years. The trade unions, even though they had signed a declaration of commitment where they assumed that negotiation would have as its basis three variables — the time, mode and timetable of recovery — wanted to impose their starting position on time as a result of the negotiation. Unfortunately, initial rigidity rarely yields good results. in this matter, we always defend: that educators and teachers are not less well treated than other professionals of the Public Administration ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that equality between workers is a fundamental principle; that recovery of service time is calculated in an equal way in all careers — it is a question of equality between workers; and that teachers can choose between the regime of the specific decree or the transversal regime for several special careers, which is also important for this fairness. This solution, if not fully resolved, mitigates the impact of overruns, because the government has never given up on finding the best solutions to the problems. Would it have been possible to go further? Perhaps it would have been possible to find better solutions if negotiations had not been sacrificed by those who chose the path of confrontation with the government and the path of radicalization, including the Minutes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a Member of Parliament I am and as a teacher, I say to you: we always want to do more for teachers and for teaching careers, because without teachers education would not have made the enormous progress made in the years of democracy in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u223	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u224	But we also want and believe that the overwhelming majority of teachers also want, that public policies are sustainable, fiscally responsible, that only safe steps are taken, so that we never return to the huge increase in taxes, so that we do not return to the blind cuts and the freezings. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Equality between workers and sustainability are principles that guide the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in this debate and in this decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Greens Ecological Party is to greet all teachers, who have given a real lesson to the country when they demonstrate that the arms should not be lowered in front of gross injustices and that it is always worth fighting. Mrs PS, this talk of "no money" no longer takes. He no longer takes it because the country is helping to make billions of euros available to the bank permanently. There's always availability there! We have already seen the government put the deficit below the proposed target, wasting money for investment and therefore this conversation does not catch up. What we have to verify is that we are faced with a brutal injustice. The teachers were very unjust when the PSD/CDS government maintained, throughout the legislature, the freezing of progression in careers. in this legislature, we would have to thaw, as it is evident, this was our commitment. Only that the government has created another problem by saying that they will not recover all the time of service. Well, Minister, the injustice that is created here: putting a blackout before the time of service, the work effectively rendered by the teachers realizes that there has not been for the purposes of career progression! We have fought tirelessly in the Assembly of the Republic, so that the position of the government is different. And the PS could have helped more! The PS could have been consistent with its vote in favour of the draft resolution presented by the Greens here and which resulted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018, which determines the counting of all the time of service. Of course, the State Budgets for 2018 and 2019 also followed, which determined the negotiation of the mode and period of recovery of the service time provided. But what happened? The Government has been completely irreducible in these negotiations. [[Protests by the Minister of Education.]] It was, Mr Minister, that was completely irreducible, took the matter of two years and nine months and did not leave. The unions opened doors for alternative solutions: the issue of phase-out, including the issue of the use of time for retirement purposes, finally put several alternatives on the table, but the government did not want to hear, did not want to leave the solution it had proposed. Mr Minister, will it not be brutally unfair for the teachers of Madeira and the Azores to know the recovery of all the time of service and those of the continent not? But are there second-class teachers and first-class teachers? Oh, my God! How is it about this, Minister? Today we are dealing with the amendments to the stubborn decree-law of the Government, Decree-Law No. 36 / 2019, which establishes these two years and nine months, and there are several solutions on the table. The PSD and CDS – watch out! — what it says is that the government is doing what it proposes now and the rest of the time is soon seen. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this gives no guarantee! What guarantees is the Greens' proposal, which determines the full recovery of all service time — nine years, four months and two days — phased between 1 January 2019 and 1 January 2025. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u227	For the Government, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Education Tiago Brandão Rodrigues. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. This government only has a huge commitment: to comply with the Programme approved in this House, which reflects the joint positions signed with the parties who, in good time, wanted this House to leave a new government that would return normality to the lives of the Portuguese and return social and economic progress to the country. This is exactly what we have done since the first day of this legislature and what we will do until the last day of it, the full implementation of the Government Programme, also in education, repeatedly valuing the teaching condition and the public school from the first day. Returning normality to Portuguese life meant thawing what was frozen. Thus we did, defusing the wage progression in the careers of all public employees, and so did we in education, defusing, on January 1, 2018, the career of all professionals of education. Guaranteed this thawing, and as it is natural in the human condition, a new issue has arisen, neither in the Government Programme nor in the joint positions that preceded it. This new issue, on which there was no — I repeat « none» — commitment made by this government, is the question of the recovery of teaching time, which was frozen between 2011 and 2017 and which has never been placed in the different budgets approved in this House during these seven years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u229	It was before that! The Minister of Education : - That is, after the chronometer is ahead, there has been a new claim: that this same chronometer would also count back. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although totally new, the government was sensitive to this issue and scrupulously complied with the State Budget Laws of 2018 and 2019, negotiating seriously, with good faith, without intransigence, with known numbers and taking a firm step attenuating the effects of the impact of the same freezing. With the respect that education professionals deserve from the outset, over a period of more than one year, we have allocated several negotiating rounds to see whether it was possible to take a step— never greater than the leg—to meet these new demands which, I remember, not only represent a huge budget commitment, but also new and never programmed, as would be repeated, year by year, in all budgets. Indeed, it is a new expenditure that does not affect just one year, before, it affects every future year. A expenditure which, with enlargement for all the other so-called special careers, would appear to be even more absolutely unsustainable. As a new expenditure and a continuous expenditure, this government has led to a negotiation process, being fair to the commitments it has made and responsible for the expenditure that they bear, having gone to the limit of the limits of the limits, in terms of what is financially possible and sustainable. There were twelve times when we met with trade union organisations and, if there is no doubt that a negotiation will take more action at the point of arrival than at the point of departure, it is indisputable that only one of the parties presented a proposal during the negotiation process that was different from the one with which he started this negotiation, and that part was the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u230	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u231	The other side remained radically inflexible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has negotiated, came to an end with a different position than it was at the beginning and had ahead of it who demands everything and nothing less than everything. Even so, we have taken this step, to give more than we had planned, with equality between careers and, therefore, today is also here in the equation the new decree-law for the other special careers, already approved, and there is also responsibility for the Portuguese. And because we are government, we unfortunately do not have the freedom to have the present and future resources of the Portuguese to give everything to everyone. Fortunately, because we are government, we do not have the political hypocrisy of taking the Portuguese for fools and promising some to give everything, while we say, at the same time, that whoever will give it all will be someone forward, in a future government whose circumstances we cannot know today, at a time when we do not say what it is and with resources that we do not explain what and who they are removed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u232	It's the surplus! The surplus is a great resource!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u233	Governance involves choosing and sometimes even unpleasant. It is a pity that being opposed means only wanting everything and its opposite, telling the Portuguese everything and nothing. We are sure that the Portuguese will be able to multiply this by nothing, and see that the result for the common good would be the same as when it multiply by zero: it gives « nothing», Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! And it is this round « nothing» that the right, by the initiative of the PPD / PSD, brings us here today with tremendous political opportunism. The political opportunism of those who, having been against thawing, now intend to recover all the time frozen, without ever saying how or how it will cost, much less saying that taxes will increase or that expenditure will cut to reach that value.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u234	Give me the information!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u235	What courage this is, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? What real appreciation is, after all, this one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It's just the illusion promise of a right one once again unable to tell us what's coming. It is that what the PSD brings here today is not a hope, what the PSD brings here today is a real boss. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u236	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Alves, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Education, you came here once again, trying to rewrite the story and again blackmail the Assembly and the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u239	And, as you can see, the teachers who were in the galleries have gone away, such is the harmony that exists with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u241	Over the past 18 months, we have seen a political farce in which the government, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have been the great protagonists. Some are to be drawn up, others to be produced and all to be represented, with the Government systematically running away from their responsibilities. All this, because it is an immediate consumption government, without a medium or long-term strategy, which, through propaganda, seeks to blame others for the problems created by them. Otherwise, let's see. Who frozen the teachers' careers? A PS government! Who took the country to a pre-bancarrot? A PS government! Who, now, wants to discriminate teachers against the rest of the public service? The government and the PS! Who deliberately deceived the teachers? The government and the PS! Who, hiding himself in questions of semantics and denying the public image of teachers, did blackmail negotiate? The government and the PS! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] And who now presents a diploma that demeans the work of teachers and does not alert future unconstitutionalities? The PS government! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the presence of a minister of the Republic who does not comply with the law, who does not honour the commitments he holds and who is not serious in the negotiations in which he participates, by contaminating public opinion with values that he does not show.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u242	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u243	I will finish, Mr. President. We are in the presence of a minister who does not realize the social importance of education and of all its agents and who, for all these reasons, does not deserve the confidence of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u244	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u245	Mr Minister, tell us: even after this troubled process, the PSD is here giving the government a chance to retreat. The teachers and this House definitely want to know if the government is open and available to negotiate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u246	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u247	... with truth and justice, the replacement of the right to 9 years, 4 months and 2 days of service, due to the teachers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u248	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u249	Mr. President, if there are more Mrs. Members registered for requests for clarification, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u250	Of course, Minister. So, then, you have the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, also to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u251	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Porfirio Silva left the question of how much it cost, i.e. how much the proposal was left on the table by the PSD. I think it is an excellent question, Minister. That was the question which Mr Mário Centeno did not answer to Parliament in the debate on the State budget. 'How much it cost' is what Mr Minister and his Government have always refused to say throughout the year and half of negotiations. So, Minister, I now ask you the question: if it is so expensive, if it is so difficult, what prevents you from sharing, in a transparent way, with Parliament the value that is at stake, so that we can decide informally? Oh, my God! If the Minister had done this work, if he had done that account — which we have already doubted today — we could have an informed discussion here and, after all, know what the real possibilities are and how far we can go in the negotiation of time with the teachers, already this year and in the following years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u252	The government is not open to negotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u253	So how much does it cost, Minister of Education? Why does it not share with Parliament, which is linked in its decision, the information we lack, to be responsible for deciding? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u254	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u255	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Alves, thank you very much for your question. It even seemed like I was writing allusion to the movements in the galleries. You always have a lot of information! Open... [[PSD protests.]] What I want to say to you, Mr, is that you do not believe everything the liars tell you. Don't believe all liars! Another thing, Mr President, which I have already told you several times in the parliamentary committee, is that it is not because a lie is often said that it becomes a truth! It is not because you say it loud and in a good tone that it turns into a truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I am going to say to you again, loud and in good tune, that the government has never broken negotiations with the unions, it has never been intransigent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u256	That's not what the unions say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u257	The government has never been inflexible, has always acted in good faith and has never failed with the word given. This was a good story...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u258	He never recognized 9 years, 4 months and 2 days!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u259	Mr. Member, or should I say Mr. Professor Pedro Alves? Oh, my God! Mr President, let me tell you that this was a good story: a government that has been struck by the teaching condition and its appreciation, after an intense devaluation of the previous, symbolic and material government, was now like the government that does not care about teachers. That's not true! That's not true, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u260	Don't say that! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u261	This government is concerned about the teachers and it is not for the honourable Member to deny that this is often true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the accounts, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment of the Ministry of Finance will repeat what has already been said exhaustively. It is very strange that they make parliamentary assessments, without really saying, and without really knowing how much it costs! It's very strange, Mrs. Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u262	Yeah, I think so too! That's why I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u263	For one speech, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u264	Finally, someone to do the math!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as clear as possible as regards the two aspects that are very relevant, and we are not talking only about accounts, because the accounts are underlying a rational, which is a rational of equity. [[How much is it?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u266	Before reaching the « how much it is », we need to know why it is, and this is very relevant. The Government has developed a solution based on a rational fairness, because this issue has to be worked out in the context of Public Administration, without forgetting that there are distinct careers with different rates of wage development and that the freezing period did not mean a progression to the generality of the workers of general careers. in these careers, founded in time, progression is faster.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u267	Is it faster? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u268	What was meant to be established, at the negotiating level, was a rational one, which means 70 % of the progression module. And 70 % of the progression module, because, in general careers, the 7 years of freezing mean 70 % of the progression module applied to these careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u269	That's bad news!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u270	Say something new!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u271	As the Government is clear in how it conducts its negotiations and always has a rational responsibility, because it does not commit itself to solutions that mortgage the future of workers and Portuguese, the Government has understood, with certain accounts — accounts made by the same team that made the accounts that allowed to reverse cuts, to freeze careers, to increase pensions, to raise the minimum wage and to raise the remuneration base of the Public Administration —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... establish a diploma that has a very high financial impact in the country. This means the limit to which the Government considers it responsible to raise public expenditure. This diploma costs more than EUR 240 million per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u272	The teachers' or the administration's? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u273	The 70 % rational diploma costs EUR 240 million per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u274	So it wasn't 600 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u275	It's a little different than 600 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u276	This means that the generality of career teachers, contrary to the workers of general careers, who have had no right to more than one progression, will, with the application of this diploma, have two progressions within five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u277	Tell me what the diploma is now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u278	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u279	This also means, and with this end, Mr President, that this rational, because of responsibility and consistency with all the employees of the Public Administration, must be applied to all the careers. If the proposal that is presented in full time count, the application of this rational to the whole of the careers based on time would mean an unsustainable value of EUR 800 million per year of wage mass raising, EUR 635 million per year only for the teaching career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u280	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u281	This is an unacceptable effort for the Public Administration, because it would necessarily have to be done at the expense of other options. We do not take any greater steps than the leg and we know that the choices taken without weighting have consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u282	To the bank they're already giving!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u283	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards the end of this debate. Mr Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u284	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This legislation was about the recovery of rights and how to recover rights that have been denied over many years. Whoever does not realize this does not realize the importance of the debate we are having here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u286	It seems that the Socialist Party has failed to learn the lesson of this legislature and the expectations for the recovery of rights which it legitimately created out there, on the street, to teachers, to all public officials and to all workers. That is why the Government is now isolated and is already entering this defeated debate. What we want is that teachers come out of this winning debate. The PSD presents two proposals: one next to the government, to pay 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, and one next to the government, not to pay six and a half years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u287	Don't say that! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u288	... disguiseing with shadow games what would be the realization of the right to full recovery of service time. « He fled his mouth to the truth » to Mr. Pedro Alves, when he said that the PSD was here once again to lay hands on the government, to give the government a hand. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u289	No, no! That's with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u290	It is that, by referring the rest of the time of service for negotiation with whom you have already proven that you do not want to negotiate and that you are unwilling in the negotiation, what you are doing is leaving the teachers' career in the hands of Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u291	These are your budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u292	And that is not and cannot correspond to the truth of those who say they want to defend the career of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u293	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u294	It is that 9 years, 4 months and 2 days are neither a style exercise nor a rhetorical exercise, they are working days that have to be recognized, and that is what Parliament has to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u295	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u296	I conclude, Mr. President. The PSD and all the benches have the opportunity to come to the game in the specialty, to effectively recognize this time of service to teachers and teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u297	To conclude the debate, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u298	Mr President, with regard to this debate, we want to begin by saying that when it comes to freedom, the government does not, nor can it, have freedom, not so little legitimacy, to violate the rights of workers, who have been won with struggle and claim, namely the right to career, in this case, to a teaching career. [[PCP applause.]] The first proposal of the Government in this case is the last one, it is to delete the time of service. That is the great intransigence that is placed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u299	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u300	And we have repeated: there is no reason to postpone the resolution of this problem nor can there be half-solutions here in Parliament. What has to result from the action of the Assembly of the Republic is a definitive solution, with the phase-up schedule proposed by the CFP, according to the express will of thousands and thousands of workers. What is not responsible — also according to a few words that have been massacred several times today — is that so much criticism, so many demands, so many proposals that have so many difficulties and so much subservience to the dictates and constraints of the European Union, all this results in something that is not practical.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u301	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u302	I'm done now, Mr. President. So what we need to ask is whether PSD and CDS will support the PS government, so that teachers are left without a definitive solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u303	Who supports the PS government is the PCP and the Block! They approved four State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u304	What we need to ask is whether PSD and CDS want to "give the lie" and betray commitments they have made to teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u305	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u306	Let's hope the teachers give them an answer at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u307	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u308	Finally, Mr President, saying the following: To shake the pope of the accounts and the backwardness for the time of the troika, using the arguments watered down here by the government, only indicates the lack of credibility of the numbers that have been thrown here and the lack of political will to solve this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-16.u309	Mrs. Member States, however, in the context of the assessment of this Decree-Law No 36 / 2019 of 15 March, have entered the Bureau proposals for amendments to it submitted by the Parliamentary Groups of the CFP, the Greens, the BE, the PSD and the CDS-PP, which will be reduced, as the Rules of Procedure send, to 8. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we have concluded the general assessment of the Bill No. 944 / XIII / 3. a ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens), together with Decree-Law No. 36 / 2019, of 15 March[ Parliamentary Assessments Nos 127 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 126 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) and with this, our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have on the agenda the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the sustainability of the public social security system. At the end of the debate, there will be electoral votes. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 22 minutes.]]
