ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, very good day. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 9 hours and 33 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please proceed to the opening of the galleries. of the first item on our agenda is the joint assessment of Petition No 536 / XIII / 3. a ( Gabriel da Conceição de Almeida Martins Boavida et al.) — They request the adoption of legislative measures and sensitization related to cardiac resuscitation and resolution projects n.o 1904 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the adoption of legislative and sensitization measures related to cardiac resuscitation, 1951 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Training plan in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, 1955 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government introduce compulsory training in secondary education on basic life support-external automatic defibrillation « SBV-DAE » and 2163 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Promotion of basic life support procedures. Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor to present his initiative in the context of the petition. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 7,000 petitioners who call on Parliament to debate cardiac resuscitation and also to reflect on the teaching and training of the general population of basic support for life and, therefore, once again, we welcome the petitioners for allowing this discussion. It may be relevant to indicate some data at the beginning of this debate and to better understand the reality and the phenomenon we are talking about. Sudden heart death affects 10,000 people per year in Portugal. It is an expressive number and has an absolutely significant dimension. The survival rate at an episode of these out of the hospital context is extremely low — less than 3 % of the survival rate in Portugal. However, in other countries this rate is around 20 %. Only 10 % of cardiorespiratory stops in Portugal are rescued by people who are at that location at that time, even if they are not health professionals. in other countries, this rate of relief by the general population is about 60 %. There is, therefore, a very big difference here in how, in Portugal, whether or not it will help and how, in Portugal, whether or not it will survive a cardiorespiratory stop, when compared with other countries. Now, everyone knows that in these cases of cardiorespiratory arrest, sudden cardiac death, the first seconds, the first minutes after the episode literally make the difference between life and death. And everyone knows, all and all of you. Members know that there is often no health professional in those early minutes and there is still no medical emergency on the spot. That is why the training and training of the general population can effectively save lives and make a difference in these episodes. The problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be still very little training and very little training for the general population, and that is why we have such low survival rates compared to other countries, and that is why we have such low relief rates compared to other countries. That is why the Left Block brings to the debate a draft resolution which will recommend to the Government a number of initiatives, which will, in fact, be aligned with what is the petition for this debate. They are recommendations to promote literacy in the general population, to know, for example, identify an episode of cardiorespiratory stopping; they are recommendations to promote the teaching of basic support of life in schools, with students and teachers, and to promote specific compulsory training in certain professions, including health professionals, teachers, firefighters, trainers, staff working in gymnasiums, supervisors, police and other professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u3	You've reached your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u4	I will now finish, Mr President. With these measures, we are sure that we will have a higher rate of relief and survival in episodes of cardiorespiratory stopping in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u5	Mr João Dias, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating the petitioners for having taken this initiative, which is particularly felt by those who, unfortunately, have already lost relatives or friends who, at the time of cardiac arrest, had had the presence of a qualified witness in basic life support could have been saved. in this sense, the PCP presented a draft resolution that aims to create a cardiopulmonary resuscitation and training plan aimed at students of 3. the cycle of basic and secondary education, which will start in the academic year 2019 - 2020. Mrs. Members, it is assumed by the scientific community that basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation, when performed by witnesses who witness the occurrence of cardiopulmonary stop, is the key element of survival in the case of extra hospital cardiac stop. We must take into account that the success of the execution of basic life support maneuvers is conditioned by the time factor. The sooner cardiorespiratory resuscitation begins, the greater the probability of success. This is because it allows them to be initiated, immediately and at the place where the situation occurred, basic life support maneuvers that enable them to maintain the circulation and ventilation of the victim until the arrival of medical assistance that establishes the most advanced procedures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most of our population does not have the slightest training in basic life support techniques. There are still many Portuguese people who think that the medical emergency number is 115. Therefore, one of the most important steps to increase the rate of resuscitation made by those with cardiac arrest is to train all children and young people during the school course. Only in this way will it be possible to improve the proportion of adults prepared and trained in society, which will significantly increase, in the long term, an increase in the overall rate of resurrection made by witnesses. Still, we can ask the question: Why teach children basic support of life? Because children and young people are very present in the lives of their family members, and 60 or 80 percent of heart conditions occur at home; because every child, from 10 years of age, can learn all basic life support techniques and some techniques can even be learned by even younger children, and because a child with basic life support will always have greater confidence and capacity to help. Therefore, we argue that health professionals and teachers are the ones who are best positioned to be able to enable them, maximizing the potential of these children and young people. Mrs. Members, the CFP believes that we are in a position to work on all the draft resolutions that we are discussing today and, in the field of expertise, we will produce a resolution that responds to the real need for training of the population in basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you're experiencing difficulties with the electronic registration of presence. If that happens, please be careful. We have already checked this deficiency and we are waiting for it to be corrected all the time. Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the more than 7000 subscribers of this petition for bringing to Parliament a debate on a cause and a subject which is expensive to the CDS. Since 2008 the CDS has been presenting legislative initiatives to recommend to the Government the introduction of compulsory basic life-support training in national schools. We presented in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, in 2013 and now in 2019, we again presented. More: in 2013, in the past legislature, we finally saw one of these initiatives approved, the Resolution Project No 590 / XII / 2. the, which, despite having been approved and published, had no practical effect. So I would also like to welcome all the parliamentary groups who have joined this claim and presented legislative initiatives, confident that, as Mr PCP has said, we will all know together that we have a common text that genuinely translates the will of all parliamentary groups and, at the same time, meets the needs. As has been said here, and well, the basic life support procedures applied in the first moments of a cardiorespiratory stop allow them to duplicate or even triple the probability of survival of the victim and, including, there are studies that show that the survival rate of a victim of a cardiorespiratory stop without basic life support maneuvers or without access to an external automatic defibrillator is 0 % to 10 minutes. But if these maneuvers are applied in the first minute, the survival rate becomes very close to 100 %. It is therefore crucial that the population is sufficiently informed and able to provide basic life support, including training for the use of external automatic defibrillators. It is crucial that each of us know what to do and how to do when faced with a situation like this, because we will be saving time and, most likely, lives. Estimates of the civic movement Save More Lives, promoter of this petition that we once again greet, point out that in Portugal sudden cardiac death affects 10,000 people per year, i.e. one victim per hour, and survival rate is very low, less than 3 %, particularly due to lack of timely relief. Thus, it seems to us that the necessity of this training is too obvious, as we have been defending over the years, and therefore we represent this initiative, which provides for the progressive introduction in secondary schools of compulsory frequency training in basic life support, including external automatic defibrillation, aimed at students of the 10. o, 11. o and 12. the year, with a minimum duration of 3 hours each year, in order to ensure a total of 9 hours of training at the end of 12. year. This training should include 50 % practice time and should be taught by teachers with certified training, in particular by a training entity accredited by INEM. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems to us consensual and to establish good sense that these measures are taken and, therefore, we will, of course, be available to approve all the projects now presented and, more than that, with political will, so that a resolution can finally be adopted and implemented in a consensual manner, going to meet what is needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens Ecologist Party, I begin by greeting the thousands of subscribers of this petition, which, in fact, has motivated this agenda and whose purposes deserve the best reception on the part of the Greens, which is why we have presented a legislative initiative that seeks to meet its objectives. As mentioned in the petition text, sudden cardiac death in our country is more than 10 000 people per year, and the survival rate outside the hospital is very low, being below 3 %, when in other countries it is between 20 % and 30 %. As the numbers show us, the victims of more than half of the cases of cardiorespiratory arrest do not live in hospitals and most of the episodes of sudden cardiac death result from the occurrence of malignant arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation. In this situation, however, the only effective treatment is electrical defibrillation and, as shown by international experience, the use of external automatic defibrillators in an extra-hospital environment, by non-medical personnel, greatly increases the likelihood of survival of victims. That is, the probability of survival of affected people is as much as the time between fibrillation and defibrillation. Therefore, every minute that passes is decisive for the survival of these people and the first few minutes are absolutely essential, and the damage caused may be irreversible, so it makes all the difference to have the society able to properly apply relief maneuvers and thus be more prepared to save lives. It happens that in more than half of the cases no resuscitation maneuver is performed until relief means arrive, which sometimes come late. thus, it becomes essential a rapid and effective intervention of those who have a cardiorespiratory stop, based on specific procedures and framed by the survival chain, which can significantly increase the survival rates of the victim. However, the truth, and for what we have seen, is that the general population does not have sufficient knowledge to carry out relief manoeuvres and the access of citizens to defibrillators is still very small. In view of these facts, it is essential to develop measures to ensure that society is, in fact, prepared to respond to medical emergencies in situations of cardiorespiratory stopping, which can naturally save lives. But in our country there is not yet a true culture of medical emergency that is, in fact, rooted in society and therefore there is much to do with regard to the formation and training of society, and it is precisely in this sense that the Greens present their legislative initiative, in order to promote the improvement of the survival of victims of sudden heart death, ensuring the strengthening of the chain of survival. The Greens also express their full willingness to produce a consensus text together that can answer all these problems. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u11	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Parliamentary practice is, of course, beginning with greetings, but today I am doing so in a very special way, because of the importance of the issue that brings us here. I therefore naturally greet Mr President, a special greeting to the petitioners for bringing a subject of this magnitude to this House and a special greeting, too, to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is true that, in this House — which is indeed to be welcomed — there are huge differences between us: differences in political position, model and view of society and, perhaps, almost always, the way each of us is seeking to achieve the objectives, models and what we want for our country. But it is also true that there is a subject and subject which must unite us all on the subject of freedom or the realization of concrete freedoms. In my opinion, concrete freedoms are, of course, access to justice, literacy and universal education for all and, above all, access to health and literacy in health. We can differ here, as I have said, in the form and method, in what we believe in, but I think, in substance, that there are so many hours, days and months to debate that we often forget the reason that each of us has taken to politics. And it was undoubtedly the pursuit of the common good and the attempt to improve people's quality of life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unquestionably, health literature, as I said here, is fundamental, especially when cardiovascular diseases, as has already been said, kill more than 33 000 people, in Portugal, per year. Specifically, with regard to sudden heart death, it is estimated that this is responsible for 10,000 to 12,000 deaths per year. These high numbers naturally mean loss of cardiac function, which could and should be avoided. It is true that, on the one hand, it could have been the adoption of healthy lifestyles and prevention, but on the other hand, as has already been reiterated here, also by more literature in health. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for us to have an idea, the rate of survival of sudden heart death in Portugal is indeed very low, around 3 %, especially compared to other countries, where the rate is at home of 20 or 30 %. Therefore, it is appropriate to say that the basic support of life saves lives. Early intervention, in a set of uniform procedures, effectively makes the difference, so, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it should be unanimous and consensual that the idea of training and teaching advanced support for life and defibrillation should be adopted in the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles, and also in secondary education, alternately. That is the proposal of our parliamentary group. In conclusion, Mr President, it is essential to obtain basic knowledge on this subject, it is essential to mobilize society and the political class, it is essential to mobilise the Portuguese education system, and, above all, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for a comprehensive and broad compromise on this matter in civil society and in the political class.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u13	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u14	Mr President, to conclude, this is a commitment that must be made by society, but it is certainly a commitment already made by the PSD Parliamentary Group and by Social Democratic Youth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u15	Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 7000 petitioners subscribing to Petition No 536 / XIII / 3. the, which require the adoption of legislative measures and sensitization related to cardiac resuscitation. Civil society has been exemplary in close collaboration with political decision makers. Indeed, if there is a theme that unites us all, it is certainly that of salvation of life. 30 years ago, I was a young doctor and believed it would be crucial to teach in schools how to save lives. I never thought it would take so long for what had not yet been done. I wanted the fate that would meet me in this House at this hour—late is true! — to correct this gap. But sooner than ever! Too many people die in Portugal because citizens do not know how to recognise and act at least in a cardiorespiratory situation. State and citizens must work to prevent more than 10 000 people per year dying in Portugal, victims of cardiorespiratory arrest. In addition, this Government has already introduced at the level of 10 in 2019. the year, in the curriculum area of Physical Education, the formation in basic support of life. And therefore, it aims at the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, that the teaching of basic support of life and external automatic defibrillation is reinforced by law in schools, for all secondary school students, ensuring that in the future no one can complete his compulsory education without having had contact, knowledge and practice in basic support of life and in external automatic defibrillation, making the country better prepared to respond to medical emergencies and cardiorespiratory arrest situations. We safeguard that this training should be provided by professionals with certification accredited in basic life support and external automatic defibrillation and that awareness-raising, information and dissemination campaigns should be implemented to prevent and combat sudden heart death. There is a financial investment in this learning, of course, but there is nothing that pays for a life that is saved, and that is what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolution of the Socialist Party is a recommendation which aims to take small steps, it is true, but safe in the consecration of a principle and a value which, expecting itself intrinsic to human nature, needs some solid foundations. Saving a life cannot be just an instinct, it must be a consequent action. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago it was already late. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is thus concluded, and we therefore consider Petition No 514 / XIII / 3. a (António Alves Cardoso et al.) — They request the replacement of the parish of Pigeiros, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 1097 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Pigeiros, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reverting the Union of Freguesias imposed on the populations by Law No 11 -a / 2013 of 28 January, and 1098 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Caldas de São Jorge, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reversing the Union of Freguesias imposed on the people by Law No 11 -a / 2013 of 28 January. I therefore now give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block to present these two initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again I would like to greet and greet the many thousands of petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic, requesting, demanding the restitution of their frequencies, these which were extinguished by the previous Government, which were extinguished by a previous majority of the PSD and the CDS-PP. In fact, in 2013 the PSD and CDS-PP extinguished hundreds, many hundreds of parishioners throughout the country. Only in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, were 10 the extinct parish, which represents a third of the territory. One third of the territory was erased by the PSD and the CDS-PP against everything and against all: against the population who did not want the extinction of the parish, against the elected bodies of the parish, who gave a negative view of this claim, and more than that, without even respecting the minimum requirements in a democracy, because they ignored the popular will, prevented referendums to take on this same popular will and opposed decisions of fregetal councils and assemblies. They passed over everything and everyone, and everything to extinguish a considerable part of the territory. In the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, one third of this territory was deleted. But fortunately people do not surrender to this kind of authoritarianism of the PSD and the CDS-PP, they do not surrender to this evidence of those who want to steal their territory, of those who want to steal the administration of their own territory. Fortunately, they organize themselves to fight for their territory, and very well! We therefore again welcome and stress this role of the petitioners, who bring to the Assembly of the Republic this demand for the refund of two frequencies which have been unduly extinct, against the will of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u20	The Left Block obviously accompanies this will. We therefore bring two bills, which we hope will be approved because they reflect the will of the people to see their fragesias restored, to see their territory restored, to see the ability to administer their territory, to the land where they live. The challenge is this, ladies and gentlemen. Members : they now comply with the will of the population, since in 2013 they did not comply with it and ignored it taxfully. They pass the bills for the restitution of the parish of Pigeiros and Caldas de São Jorge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u21	Before I give the floor to the honourable Member to whom I shall address immediately, I appeal to the parliamentary groups who wish to speak in this debate to register their Members. Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on on on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to greet the petitioners who claim the replacement of the parish of Pigeiros, in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, signaling even in this same petition that both the parish of Pigeiros and the parish of Caldas de São Jorge were extinct against the express will of the population and the local authorities, in particular of the assemblies of both fregueries, in 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u24	In fact, like what was done a little throughout the country, by the hands of the PSD / CDS, when, the ruler and the painting, extinguished the fregueses, ran over the will of the people and ignored the local power. There were more than 1000 people who died from the imposition of the PSD and the CDS, based on a political and ideological option whose main objective was the subversion of local democratic power, which meant the impoverishment of our democratic regime. Nothing good came out of this administrative reform, which was no more than a settlement of rights and, in many cases, public services organized in the logic of freguesia, as the CFP has in good time denounced. The extinction of the parish brought deep damage to the populations, lost the proximity that characterized this level of power, with the reduction of about 20,000 people elected of the parish, and the ability to intervene in solving problems was difficult. With the extinction of strawberries, the existing regional asymmetries have increased. In some localities, particularly in rural areas and in the interior, the parish was the remaining entity and even it was extinct, leaving the populations to give up. From the very first moment that the CFP has challenged the liquidation of strawberries. We have totally rejected a perspective of territorial reorganization based on blind criteria and which have completely ignored the concrete reality of each territory and the will of the people. It was not due to the lack of intervention of the CFP that this situation was not resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u26	in this same Legislation, we could have already given the people the answer to the demands they have made. It is that if we discuss this petition today, the truth is that there have been many demonstrations of whoever wants their frequiesia back, which has not been resolved because the PSD, CDS and also the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u28	... rejected the proposal that the CFP brought here to restore the parish according to the will of the people. We put forward a concrete proposal, establishing a consultation process, with local debate and decision, and which, above all, respected the express will of the people in the replacement of their parish. Having failed to get the approval of this initiative, we will not stop beating ourselves so that the replacement of the fragesias will be realized. The populations of Pigeiros and Caldas de São Jorge can count on the intervention of the PCP to defend and to give voice to this claim, such as the populations throughout the country who, not conforming to what was taken from them, want their fragility back. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they certainly hope that the Bureau will work together to ensure that the work is done well, but the Members will be able to do so. Members also have a duty to cooperate with the Bureau for the same purpose, especially when appeals are made in good time. Mr João Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, spoke for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, the more than 4000 subscribers to this petition requesting the replacement of the parish of Pigeros. I would like to start by reminding Mr Moisés Ferreira that the PSD won the elections in this parish before and after the establishment of the Union of Fregues in 2013 and 2017. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] I would also like to remind the House that, as everyone knows, the territorial reorganization of the parish resulted from the fulfilment of an international commitment of the Portuguese State, inscribed in the Memorandum of the Troika,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... Recalling that which was negotiated and signed by the Socialist Government of Eng.o José Socrates. It is worth recalling that this reform was not imposed by the troika but suggested to the troika by the then ruler of the same Executive of Eng.o José Socrates. [[Protests of BE and PCP and PSD contraprotests.]] Mr President, I have indeed difficulties and asked for your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u31	Mr President, you are right, but I note that several parts that are disturbing your intervention are coming from your own bench. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to generate conditions... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making a warning to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen standing, in partial meetings. As the honourable Member has just noted, certainly, the difficulty remains on the side of his bench. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you would like to cooperate with the honourable Member who is in the exercise of his word to be heard and that all other Members may take due note of his speech. I hope my words can be heard. Mr President, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. As I said, it is worth recalling that this reform was not imposed by the troika, but suggested to the troika by the then Secretary of State of the Local Authorities, Prof. José Junqueiro, and this complaint was made here, in the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on 16 March 2012, by then president of ANAFRE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u33	Miguel Relvas! You must be wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u34	In fact, this suggestion is not entirely contrary to the fact that this same governor defends in this same Parliament in this year of 2012 the extinction, in a very pure and simple way, of all the Fregueses that had less than 1500 voters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u35	Miguel Relvas! PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u36	All right, the reform was done in the circumstantialism we all know, and the PSD always said that all reforms—and this would not be an exception—should be monitored and evaluated. Who, though, is responsible for this monitoring and evaluation? It's the government, and the PSD is not the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u37	Your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u38	And the new government, what did you say? He said that by summer 2016 he would present to this Parliament a framework law for this amendment. The truth is that summer of 2016 arrived, this hot and hot summer that the new Secretary of State for Local Authorities spoke about, but this proposal did not reach Parliament. In addition, it did not arrive in 2016 nor in summer 2017, and in January 2018, the Minister of Internal Administration solemnly promised ANAFRE to bring the proposal of the framework law until the summer of 2018. Summer 2018 has arrived, we are already in summer 2019 and the draft framework law is that it has not arrived here. It has not arrived or arrived in good time, because, in the meantime, the legislature will end. However, I would say the following: at the end of four years, what was the behaviour of the Government and the Socialist Party? at the end of four years, the conclusion is simple: the Socialist Party has been misleading the populations, has been misleading the autarchs, including the autarchs of the Socialist Party. But that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not new to anyone anymore, is it? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to the next inscribed speaker and I will give the floor to the following speakers if they are registered at the end of the following speech. And I will not change my decision if there are no entries made so far. Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, and allow me - in a special way, the first petitioner of the petition today under discussion, Mr Antonio Cardoso, as well as the more than 4000 subscribers of the petition we are discussing today and which aims to replace the parish of Pigeros. Now, I would like to remind the PSD that if there have been no elections since 2013 in the parish of Pigeiros, this fact is due, only and exclusively, to the fact that there is no more parish! This petition, as well as the initiatives under discussion, arises following the 2013 law, proposed by the former Government of the PSD majority / CDS, approved with the votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS and with the votes against the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Green DOS, and which, in the wake of the popular will and the specific realities of the territories, resulted in the extinction of hundreds of fringes throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u41	Mr. Member, your government has done this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u42	During this process, which will always be stained as one of the blackest periods of democracy in Portugal in the period since 25 April, then the PSD/CDS majority government, imposed, authoritatively and in a logic of rule and framework,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... a process of administrative reorganization, only of parishioners, disrespecting the deliberations of the elected bodies and disregarding the will and interest of the peoples, their characteristics, their traditions, their past and its history. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, time has shown that the extinctions of imposed frequencies have not brought any added value or benefit to the populations, on the contrary, have created or sharpened divisions that already existed and led to the abandonment of many of the extinct and aggregated frequencies by larger frequencies, thus damaging, perhaps irreparably, the smaller frequencies, which have been forced to aggregate. With regard to the parish of Caldas de São Jorge and Pigeiros, another irrational aggregation remains for history, where there is no identity among the populations, where there is no urban continuity, where there are not even socio-economic links. In addition, the false expectations created to the populations of these parishes following the approval of the Municipal Assembly of Santa Maria da Feira, a majority PSD, of a motion that recommended the reversal of the parishes whose aggregations have proved unsuccessful, in fact, recently opposed by the surprising change in position of the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, by issuing negative opinion to the bills of the Left Block today under discussion, to the retreat of what had already been defended and approved in the previous motion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has always criticized the disastrous and irrational way in which the reorganization of the parish was carried out by the previous right-wing government, without any caution and promotion of the participation of people. We cannot, therefore, now make the same mistakes of the past, extinguishing and creating fregetals by decree,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... without promoting and ensuring the participation of the people and full compliance with their wishes. It should also be borne in mind that three other legislative initiatives are under consideration in the Assembly of the Republic with the aim of replacing extinct strawberries, without the proposal under consideration with ANAFRE with the same object.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, that a review of this process is not made only for Caldas de São Jorge and Pigeiros,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u45	... but for all the other Frequencies in the country, whose reality, history and will of the people was ignored and disrespected by the former PSD / CDS government, and in a process of true democratic spirit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Four years of lies!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u46	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Almeida, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by welcoming the subscribers of this petition, from our colleague Mr António Cardoso and all the other subscribers here, and the best way to respect the subscribers of this petition is to be clear when talking about their object. First way of being clear: to see how each party has spoken locally and how it will pronounce itself here, and it will be obvious that it will hardly respect the petitioners who vote here differently from what it voted in the Municipal Assembly of Santa Maria da Feira. It will therefore be very important to see which parties will vote in the same way and which parties will vote in the same way. Above all, it will be very important to assess the coherence of those who, by voting differently, blame others for what, after all, is their own pirouette! In other words, who for four years had a majority in parliament here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to approve everything he wanted, spent four years saying badly about the administrative reform of the parish done in the past legislature and here always led any initiative that was to revise this reform done in the past legislature. Therefore, it is clear at this moment that if there is no change in the Union of Pigs and Caldas de São Jorge, it is because those who have a majority in this Parliament and who say that it is in favour of the reversal of that Union, after all, does not vote in favour of the reversal of that Union. Let us be clear: if we want to respect the population, we have to be consistent, not in words, but in actions. on our part, we always understood that the process, first of all, had a reason to be, which was the Memorandum of the Troika, that the way it was carried out was not free of errors, is not free of criticism and is not impossible to reverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u48	But you were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u49	Therefore, in Santa Maria da Feira, in the Municipal Assembly, as here in Parliament, I recommend this issue to the council should be reassessed. But we said there as we say here; we voted there as we will vote here. This discussion should be made, in this case there is reason, but there is also reason for other fregueses of Santa Maria da Feira and other unions that were created. All must be discussed, it is true, but it is not worth saying in Santa Maria da Feira that it has to be now and then come to say here that it is not, after all, voting in favour and abstaining here. So, what we're going to do here is exactly what we did in Santa Maria da Feira, because we don't have two sides together, we only have one. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u50	We are then in a position to move to the next point on today's agenda, the joint assessment of Petition No 364 / XIII / 2. a ( Bernardino José Torrão Soares et al.) — They request the expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures and the Resolution Projects n. 1271 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the metropolitan of Lisbon and an expansion plan that truly serves populations, 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By an expansion of the Lisbon metropolitan network articulated with the mobility needs of the metropolitan area, 2122 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the expansion of the metropolitan network of Lisbon, 2124 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — For the suspension of the Metropolitan Line Expansion Project ( Carrossel ) in Lisbon and 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the priority expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures. Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor to present his initiative in the context of the petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecological Party has for years called for adequate investment in public transport, particularly in the Lisbon metropolitan area, which provides the necessary response to the populations. However, the Metro Network Operational Development Plan foresees the construction of a circular line between the Cais Sodré and Campo Grande and ignores a set of factors. This pseudo-expansion is, in our view, an error, it means to affect an extensive investment in a work that little adds to the metro network and has very serious consequences. Forgets the entire western part of Lisbon — Alcântara, Help and Belém — where 100,000 inhabitants continue to be badly served by transport, once again postpones Loures' connection to the metro network, and the users of Odivelas and the northern part of Lisbon no longer have direct links to the city centre. In view of this, the position of DOS Verdes is very clear: the expansion of the metro must be made to the most deprived areas of transport, such as the western part of Lisbon, and for Loures and we reject the end of the Amarela line, as we reject the circular line, which does not aim to improve mobility either inside or outside the city, only has as a concern the development of tourism. But the government resolves to ignore all this and create a circular line. In view of this, the question being asked is only one: who will this line serve? It should be noted that the challenge by populations, some autoarchs, workers and technicians has grown from day to day, and rightly so. Therefore, the Government must rethink this expansion plan, which has, in fact, very little to participate in and meet the needs of the people and sustainable mobility. Apart from all this, the subway presents serious problems that destroy its response capacity and for which The Greens demand an urgent solution, such as the hiring of workers, the repair of rolling stock, so that there are no stopped compositions, the repair of doors, wheelchairs and lifts, as well as works at various stations. In view of this framework, the Greens make their contribution through this draft resolution, as a way to solve the problems we have just mentioned. In fact, these claims do not come from now on, they are old and have even come to be promised, but, at the level of realisation, the response of successive governments has been zero! on our part there has been a constant intervention in relation to the bet on collective transport, decisive in the fight against climate change, which now all remember to defend but when we arrive at the concrete measures they begin to delay. To conclude, and on behalf of DOS Verdes, I welcome the thousands of petitioners who have motivated this agenda, in particular those who today accompany the work with us, claiming the expansion of the metropolitan network to Loures, a requirement more than just and necessary, taking into account the realization of the right to mobility, the social and environmental impacts and the quality of life of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u52	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u53	I will finish, Mr. President. We also make the voice of these petitioners, in order to demand urgency in this measure, as well as in the rest that we have just presented, and we will continue to beat ourselves for this until it is a reality. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u54	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The metro of Lisbon is a structured mobility service in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. Closing the metro network over itself, instead of opening prospects for its expansion, contradicts that purpose. The metro needs to expand, to serve more populations, to decongest traffic and parking, to take further the social, environmental and mobility gain range that represents the tariff reduction of the single pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u57	We greet the petitioners and the autarchs present here who have brought this petition in defense of the expansion of the metro to Loures, an example of citizenship, participation and involvement of the populations. In fact, the city of Loures is the only entry and exit axis in Lisbon that has no offer of rail transport. The populations that live in the urban mesh that goes from Odivelas, Frielas, the Holy António dos Cavaliers and Loures need to see the right aspiration to have the subway serving that axis fulfilled. We are now celebrating the 10th anniversary, sir. Members, since the then Secretary of State for Transport, Ana Paula Vitorino — I don't know if you know — announced that in 2015 the metro was going to reach Loures. Mrs. Members, the expansion of the metro to Loure would benefit not only the populations of Loures but also the inhabitants of Odivelas, a city that could finally breathe, because with the metro to Loures many would stop bringing the car to Odivelas and trap the traffic and parking in Odivelas. Another of the priority axes of expansion of the metro is the western area of the city of Lisbon, which continues to be the Lisbon area with worse transports and without any offer of metro. But instead of betting on these priority axes, the government prefers to make a circular line, a false circular line, which will not solve anything, which will damage the future expansion of the subway, which harms the users of Odivelas, Lumiar and Telleras, which does not even serve the centre of Lisbon. It is a false solution, which will only cause more problems: while, now, if there is an incident—a problem—in the Yellow line, the Green line continues to work normally, and vice versa, with the false circular line, if there is a problem in a given section, everything gets pushed down there, affecting the whole city!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u59	In order to develop transport in the Lisbon region, we need to take options to think about the future. This is done with more investment, with more hiring of workers and their valorization, it is made with more conditions for a better service and does not with false solutions but, yes, with the expansion of the metro to Alcântara and even Loures, as is the objective of this petition, as it has defended, and defends, the PCP, also in the draft resolution presented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u60	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to congratulate the petitioners for bringing this important issue to debate. The metropolitan of Lisbon, with strategic relevance for mobility in the city, has witnessed a high de-investment in the network, translated in the lack of maintenance of trains and stations and in the reduction of the number of workers, finding the quality and regularity of the service provided beyond what would be desirable. In Lisbon, statistics indicate that approximately 370,000 vehicles per day enter the city, which was worth the most congested city title of the Iberian Peninsula, and therefore essential steps are taken to improve public transport and, consequently, to reduce the use of individual transport. It is essential to implement a new model of urban mobility, based on public transport, which allows cities to be decarbonized and with better quality of life. Thus, in addition to the necessary strengthening of human resources and requalification of existing structures, we recommend the expansion of the metropolitan network to other municipalities and areas of the city, such as Loures, Sintra and the western part of the city of Lisbon, namely Alcântara, Aid and Belém, an essential measure for reducing road traffic and strengthening sustainable mobility, a key measure for the transition of the decarbonization of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u62	To present the legislative initiative of the PSD, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the more than 33 000 citizens, some of whom are present here, who have subscribed to the petition that calls for the expansion of the metropolitan network to Loures. Looking at the history of this topic, it is important to go back to 2009 when the Socialist Government, by the hand of the then Secretary of State for Transport, Ana Paula Vitorino, today Minister of the Sea, promised, with pump and circumstance, the expansion of the metro to Loures. Ten years later, the same socialist government has forgotten what it has promised and opts for a project that severely harms hundreds of thousands of users of the Amarela line, creating a sort of circular carriage for tourists in Lower Lisbon, breaking the direct access that exists today in the areas north of 2. the Circular, like Lumiar, Telleiras, Santa Clara, Odivelas and Loures, by imposing them transshipments in connection to the center of Lisbon, which today do not need to carry out but that they will become existing, leading to a decrease in the number of direct trains to the center of Lisbon, which will trigger the average time between trains of about 4 minutes today for at least 9 minutes. Even with regard to the need for transhipment, the Government cannot consider that it is a false problem or a failure to exist when users come from Odivelas and consider a more-value their end when users originate in Cascais. in this regard, as in other matters, this socialist government has several weights and various measures, creating Portuguese 1. a and Portuguese of 2. a. By opting for the circular line, adjourn, sine die, solutions that can truly serve mobility in the region, in particular the expansion to the western area of the city of Lisbon, as well as taking the metropolitan to a black zone from the point of view of rail transport, such as the region of Loures, with the possibility of serving all the populations of the West that today only have as an alternative to the road and individual transport, and that same road is extremely congested. The Government's solution does not serve the mobility of about 2, 8 million citizens residing in the neighbouring municipalities and Lisbon itself, who, after an investment of 265 million euros, instead of having improved their accessibility and mobility, on the contrary, see this situation damaged. We therefore note with concern that a structural project of this dimension has not been submitted to the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works and that the Socialist Party and the Government have given up seeking a solution that takes up the broad consensus of society in order to give stability and continuity to investment. in this regard, taking into account the seriousness and sensitivity of the topic and in order to prevent a tragic error which will cost Portuguese very much, the PSD Parliamentary Group proposes the suspension of the construction of the circular line or 'carssel' in the centre of Lisbon to carry out technical studies and economic viability for the future expansion of the metropolitan to the Loures municipality and to the western part of Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u64	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next inscribed speaker, I would like to ask you to note the suggestion I have to present to you. Since the electronic recording of the presence continues to appear on the monitors, I suggest to Mr. Members who, within the framework of the information system to the plenary, can click on the links and will find in the links table the window relating to the presences at the already registered meeting. The gentlemen. Members will do well to check whether your electronic presence is already registered; if it is not, I suggest that you restart the process. Thank you for your attention. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to greet the more than 30 000 people who have signed this petition, which is of the greatest importance, and also to welcome city halls, residents and workers from the Lisbon metro station who are in the galleries today. We remember that the demand for the expansion of the metro network from Lisbon to Loures is already about 30 years old and that, being a fair claim for several reasons, it has not been consistently attended by successive governments. Mobility is a fundamental component of territorial planning. Loures is a municipality crossed by some of the country's biggest communication routes, but its inhabitants sacrifice too much time and availability every day in their mobility, as a result of wrong options. In addition, the exclusion of Loures from the metropolitan network does not take into account the growing displacement of many families to the neighbouring municipalities of the capital, as a result of the exponential increase in incomes of the housing in Lisbon, adding that Loures is located in the only entry corridor in Lisbon that does not have access to rail transport. Despite being a neighbouring capital council, Loures is an important starting point for thousands of families who travel to Lisbon daily, to work or study, losing hours in transit due to lack of viable alternatives to public transport, which, as it is known, are manifestly insufficient in Loures. The connections between different points of the municipality are almost always more difficult than the trips to Lisbon, already complicated by the offer park. Therefore, this constitutes a penalization of the population, which the citizens of the municipality will continue to see lost quality of life and mobility and increasing ecological footprint and air and environmental pollution. For this reason, the Left Block has been accompanying this claim for many years and, accordingly, we have put forward several proposals to ensure that the Lisbon metro investment plans contemplate the Loures municipality, but also the Odivelas municipality or the western area of the city of Lisbon. It is not too much to say that the option taken by this Government to prioritize the circular line and to close the Amarela line is totally wrong, will not benefit the city of Lisbon and will leave out other cities and other municipalities that urgently need this investment. It is more than EUR 200 million to close the network, when it still does not reach the central locations of the metropolitan area and it is investment that is also urgent and necessary for workers, for more workers and to give conditions to existing workers, and to respond to the problems that exist today with the Lisbon Metropolitan fleet. We therefore propose that the expansion to the Loures municipality of the Metropolitan of Lisbon be a priority, as we have already done on previous occasions, and we believe that this fair demand for populations should be answered. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u66	I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome all the petitioners present in this House, in particular Mr. President of the Loures Municipal Chamber and the other authors accompanying it, and, of course, to express our solidarity with the concerns expressed in this petition. But I would like to remind you that today in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon a set of investments in the transport sector with a structural character, in territorial, economic and mobility terms. Finally, a transport system is being constructed in a coordinated manner with the urban system and with the functions that are developed in the territories, in view of the complementarity between the various modes of transport and of course seeking to provide an efficient response to the public transport needs of the populations. This is why the National Investment Programme (NIP) provides for two investment lines for public transport in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, one of which is dedicated to the extension of the metro mesh and the other to public transport in dedicated channels, particularly in Metrobus or electrical system. It is within the framework of these investments that no one has doubts — and, of course, we have no doubt on the part of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — that the expansion of the public transport network to the Loures corridor, which is now a heavily urbanized territory, without efficient means of transport to meet the needs of the people. And it is good to make it clear that the wager in this new integrated urban transport system in the metropolitan area of Lisbon is a conquest of the PS government. Just remember the state in which the previous government left Carris, the Metropolitan of Lisbon or the Transtejo and Soflusa,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u68	In bankruptcy? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u69	... where, in terms of human resources, whether in terms of equipment or in terms of infrastructure, everything was absolutely to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u70	And what does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u71	However, we wanted to recall the following: the options for public transport investments are not the responsibility of the Government today, and they are a competence of the metropolitan areas, particularly the Metropolitan Authority of Transport of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u73	It will therefore be up to the Lisbon Metropolitan Transport Authority to decide which best solution to ensure an effective transport network in the Loures corridor, in particular from the point of view of which the best means of transport that will guarantee this objective. It is important to remember that the subway is not a miracle transport solution. The metro is a transport of masses with high frequencies throughout their operating period and does not have the vocation of being a means of suburban transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u74	The subway has been around for 50 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u75	However, I would like to make the following very clear: is it necessary to continue to bet on investment in public transport in the metropolitan area of Lisbon? Of course! Should the Loures corridor and all populations that reside there be an effective access to efficient public transport mobility? No doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u76	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u77	I will finish, Mr. President. Is the extension of the metro line from Lisbon to the Loures corridor the best solution? The studies needed to ensure that this is the best solution and who must decide - it is the Metropolitan Authority of Transport of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u78	But lies to the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u79	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should, of course, begin by complimenting the petitioners. As regards the petition presented here, it does not concern only and only the Council of Loures, nor only the Council of Odivelas, it concerns Lisbon and a set of councils in the west. The question of the metro is central to what is the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. Today, several draft resolutions are presented here, some of which, namely the PCP and the Left Block, would say that they were inspired by the draft resolution submitted by the CDS in 2017. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u81	There's no doubt about it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u82	It is good to remember that you voted against this same expansion, against this same project, which had included expansion to the municipality of Loures. But let's go to Odivelas. What does the government say? What does the Metropolitan say? There's a 2-meter cadence in 2 minutes. Now, we all know it's not 2, neither 3, nor 4 and in many cases it's not 5 minutes. What do the Government and the Minister say? The circular line will benefit the interests of Odivelas. And we ask ourselves: with the amputation of the Yellow Line, with the disorders and delays that will be many and with times of waiting that will increase, how can this benefit the Odivelenses and Odivelas council? We're already waiting. When we see those images of the Odivelas subway station full of people, completely intruded, what will the government say? You will say the following: « Choose everyone to go to work at the same time and that is why that is full! Do not keep on seeking. ” So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate imposes and imposes another rigour. It says the government has 200 million euros available. Wouldn't it be better to use these 200 million euros to expand the metro to Loures? Would they not be better used in the expansion of the metro to the western part of the city of Lisbon? Would it not be better to apply them to what is the consolidation of the metro network in the city of Lisbon? The choice of this government is different. The PS criticised in 2017 the proposed CDS proposal in which the CDS said that the government was not taking advantage of Community funds that would be useful for that same expansion. But let's go to the circular question. What do the studies say? The studies speak of geological problems, risk of land movement, risk of landslides and risk of collapses. What does this involve? The people of Lisbon are in complete panic with what this work will be like. But the government gets here two « prizes ». First, you can have one of the deepest stations in the world, 54 meters, i.e., more than 16 meters deep than that of the Lower Chiado station! But then he gets something absolutely fantastic: he gets into the top 5 of the world's most expensive kilometer, in terms of metro construction! This is where we see what socialist depexism is! And this, at the same time that, for example, the University City station is not prepared for people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u83	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u84	I'd say we have a political walk. On the one hand there is a minister who does not clarify, on the other hand, is a President of the Chamber of Odivelas who blows over to the side and then we have a President of the Metropolitan who just evaporated. Who's running this walk? Fernando Medina. Mr President, I do not want to prolong my speech, but, in conclusion, I would just like to say the following: this work does not serve any of these same councils but is not an agenda for real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u85	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u86	I conclude, Mr President, just saying the following : in the CDS election programme for 2019, like we did in 2017, it will also be clear what we want in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u87	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion of Petition No 364 / XIII / 2. a and the Resolution Projects Nos 1271 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens), 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 2122 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN), 2124 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) and 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), we will move on to the joint assessment of Petition No 508 / XIII / 3. a ( Florival Baiôa Monteiro et al.) — They request the realization of works at IP8 / A26, at Beja airport, the electrification of the railway section Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira and better health services and the Resolution Projects Nos 1763 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — For compliance with the National Road Plan and full completion of the IP8 in the districts of Setúbal and Beja and 2196 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the electrification and requalification of the railway portion Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira. To open the debate and present the initiative of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate, congratulate and greet the 26 101 petitioners who had the courage to face such a force as to stop investments in the region. It is a pride to have people on our land who fight and don't give up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u90	Much is to be done in the district of Beja. In fact, until what is already done and completed is closed and it is forbidden to us, as is the case with the IP8 / A26. But, if so much is to be done, it was not for lack of proposals from the CFP, proposals, which were rejected by the PS and its Government, even though they were approved in this House. And it was also not due to lack of initiative of the CFP, which is an active voice in the denunciation and demand of another investment policy for our district and the country, nor was it due to lack of political or financial conditions that were not done what was necessary to do in the Beja district and in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u92	In the railway, it was approved in April 2017, but with the votes against the PS, the draft resolution presented by the PCP and which provided for the valorization of the Alentejo railway line and the promotion of rail mobility in the Beja district. It's been done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It wasn't! In health, if today we have some hope in the construction of the second phase of the Beja Hospital, it is by our proposal, in which the measures for the remodeling and expansion of the Beja Hospital were approved. Have they been realized? Don't! On the highway, we also saw in this House, with the votes against the PS, the resolution recommending to the Government the timing of the construction and qualification of the road network of the district of Beja. It's been done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It wasn't! As far as the airport is concerned, today the PCP recommendation to the Government will be voted on to value Beja Airport as an instrument for the development of the region — the airport cannot be a problem but a solution to the region and the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings, with this petition, the debate a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the fulfilment of the National Road Plan and the full conclusion of the IP8 in the districts of Setúbal and Beja, project, this one, which will be voted on, still today, in this plenary. IP8 is a structural and fundamental route for the regional development of the district of Beja, Alentejo and Country. As has been demonstrated, it is not due to the lack of already approved measures that do not solve the problem of delay and forgetfulness to which Beja district was voted. It is for lack of will and compliance with what has been approved by successive governments, of all, without exception, including this one! The people of Beja have reason to feel deceived, betrayed and disappointed with unfulfilled promises, with created expectations that have not been realized. Beja deserves more and requires that what has already been done and approved in the Assembly of the Republic, namely: that the works of the IP8 are resumed and completed and the section has been completed open ; that the electrification of the railway section Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira be done ; that the total use of Beja Airport be made ; and that the health services for the region be improved. You can count on the PCP! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u95	To intervene and present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, we want to begin by welcoming the initiative of more than 26 000 petitioners who demand that the Bajo Alentejo and, in particular, the Beja region be treated in another way by the central power and that, in a series of dimensions that are needed for its daily life and the enrichment of all economic and social activities, the deficiencies and main weaknesses referred to in the petition are filled. It is not by chance that the essential text of the petition focuses on accessibility to the Beja region, railway accessibility and road accessibility, which mark a daily of difficulties and lack of means of transport for day-to-day travel of the populations. That is why we must not fail to follow this initiative of the petitioners with a draft resolution focusing on railway accessibility, not forgetting that the rest of the accessibility is also needed for the region. In fact, the Beja region, as it is known, has historically been marked by being more or less in the middle of the bridge in a series of dimensions of the social state that are not present in that region. There are lack of school equipment, lack of health equipment, lack of road accessibility, lack of railway accessibility and, in this particular case of railway accessibility to the region, it is not only necessary to recover what already existed, it is also necessary to requalify these same accessibilitys. When we talk about requalification, not only do we talk about electrification of the line, we also talk about requalification of the stations, to ensure accessibility to all people, including those who have conditioned mobility; we also talk about the renewal of the circulating material; and, no less important, but quite relevant to the region, we also talk about a rail accessibility to the International Airport of Beja. Beja Airport is an island of accessibility for the rest of the country's airport network, but it is also an island for populations in the regions that need access to it. That is why, in our draft resolution, in addition to the integral electrification of the Alentejo railway line, between Funcheira and Casa Branca, we also demand the construction of a specific variant...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u97	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u98	I will now finish, Mr President. He said that we also demand the construction of a specific variant that guarantees accessibility to Beja airport, both for the transport of passengers and goods in the region and as an alternative to the country's airport network, thus ensuring full accessibility of all and of all to Beja Airport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u99	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin, of course, by congratulating the Association for the Defence of the Cultural Heritage of the Beja Region, especially in the person of one of the first subscribers, who is Mr. Florival Baiôa Monteiro, but also in the person of Mr. Bruno Ferreiro, who I think are here today, in fact, I am seeing them in the gallery and taking advantage of them to greet them. I would like to make a first note: this petition is signed by more than 26 000 people. It is a number that may not be very impressive in the national total, but in a region with little more than 120 000 voters and in which, in the last European elections, 39 000 people voted, we realized how expressive this petition was, very specifically in the district of Beja. For this reason, being the petition a very important instrument of popular participation in the democratic process, I would like to make a very special reference to these 26 000 Portuguese citizens, in this region, who have organized themselves to fight for the best interests of their region. I was privileged to be the Rapporteur of this same petition and, in committee, I heard these petitioners, along with the honourable Members. Deputies João Dias, Heitor de Sousa and Pedro do Carmo. We had the opportunity to have a debate which I think was very interesting, but, above all, we had the opportunity to give a voice to these people who, far beyond the concrete investments that we are discussing and which appear on the title of the petition, such as the electrification of the railway line between the White House-Beja-Funcheira and the health services, what they told us, above all, was that the region has enormous potential. Today there are public investments that are placed in the region and that have a huge potential, from the port of Sines, a deep water port, to the airport of Beja, to the size of the Alqueva or what is happening in Évora, for example, with the aeronautical cluster. And what they want, above all, is to be able to have an active investment policy that empowers the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u101	It was your government that closed the A26! It was you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u102	If there is a good example of public investment in Portugal, public investment that has been reproductive and has effectively managed to transform a very significant part of the Portuguese territory, it is the investment that took place in Alqueva. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] It is important to remember that, even during the adjustment period in which Portugal was placed in a very difficult situation, it was not the Portuguese Communist Party that managed to anticipate in more than 10 years the conclusion of the Alqueva investment. Who did so was, curiously, a minister of the CDS, today president of the party, former Minister Assumption Cristas. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The Communist Party can speak a lot, but it was not the Communist Party that managed to complete this investment, which is absolutely essential for the country, because it has reproductive capacity. For this very reason, for us, it is important to realize that there is investment that makes sense. What we do not do is this cry from the Communist Party, which supports a government that in the railway 2020 promised that the railway would have a lot of investment, but that has so far fulfilled less than 10 % of that same plan and is now promising for the future what it has not done. We know very well what the Socialist Party is doing, with the support of the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] They didn't do what they promised and now they promise what they won't do. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u103	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, I would like to greet the more than 26 100 petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic to say something as simple as this: the lack of public investment is devaluing a whole region, promoting its depopulation and withdrawing its dynamics, particularly in the economic area. And this, we all know! We all know that the lack of public investment generates this result, but the truth is that the most diverse parties arrive here and always cry for measures to promote territorial cohesion and combat regional asymmetries. However, when it comes to public investment in particular, which is the one with transformative capacity, many of these parties shrink. What these petitioners are saying is that the district of Beja, the Lower Alentejo, has immense potentials that are underutilized, drawing the attention of the Assembly of the Republic to a question for which The Greens are always alerting, which is the issue of mobility and accessibility. Mobility and accessibility are fundamental to promoting the cohesion of the territory, so these petitioners demand the completion of the IP8 / A26 works, the use of Beja International Airport and also a bet on the railway network on the Alentejo Line, which has enormous potential to promote this territorial cohesion and the right to mobility of populations, and is also a fundamental part for combating climate change, as we all know. in this legislature, we have achieved the commitment of electrification of the piece Casa Branca-Beja, but there is a lack of strategic vision when we do not immediately promote the connection to Funcheira and, therefore, to the Algarve Line. In fact, this lack of strategic vision makes the country delay in realizing what is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these petitioners also demand the improvement of health services, a fundamental part of responding to the needs of the population. in this desire to establish more population, more companies, to create more jobs and more sustainability of the territory, it is clear that we are also talking about a fundamental public service for the populations. The Greens would like to say that they are in complete harmony with what these petitioners claim, and we have therefore made many proposals on this issue. We had more strength, but it would have been realized. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u107	We now turn to an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group by Mr Pedro do Carmo. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the petitioners present and all others who, unfortunately, cannot be here. First of all, I would like to tell you how much I respect your commitment, because I believe that your work is complementary to my own, as a member elected by the Beja electoral circle, in the intransigent defense of the Lower Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u109	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u110	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u111	The petition discussed here today and the draft resolutions presented are intended to recommend to the Government that it implement and potentiate the structural investments for the development of the region. So let's go to the facts: it is to the PS government that we owe the investments that exist in the region; it was with the PS government that the Beja Airport was built...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u113	... and it is with the dedication and commitment of the City Hall of Beja, which has empowered the city, that this airport is currently receiving...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u114	A plane! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u115	... a private investment of more than EUR 30 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was not the PSD's government that privatized ANA — Airports from Portugal, holder of this airport, without at least taking care of its exploitation, and we could be in a very different position today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u117	As for the other investments, such as IP8 / A26 and the electrification and requalification of the Beja-Casa Branca and Beja-Funcheira line, we must speak to you in truth, Mrs. Members: Since 2011 we have claimed these investments in the railway and, in fact, only now has the study been launched for the development of the project. I recall that in 2011 the PSD candidate elected by the circle, Carlos Moedas, who later became Secretary of State and European Commissioner, wore the shirt of the movement. But that's all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! He only wore the shirt, because for four years, no contests for projects were launched.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u118	Well remembered! He took off his shirt!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u119	When the CDU, Mr. Members, claim these investments for an electoral purpose, because when you could effectively demand and negotiate, nothing did,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u120	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u121	... leaving for others the resolution of the problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u122	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u123	... assuming thus only one position of challenge and to show service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u124	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u125	That's an ardrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this short and clear way, I want to tell you the following: regarding Beja Airport, we must continue to demand the ANA company to value this infrastructure; we must continue to help the Beja City Hall to get more investments like those in progress, and I am sure it will be. With regard to IP8, it is now included in the national investment plan and we will therefore expect its approval and commitment by all parties to be no longer just a proposal whenever elections are approaching and becoming a national commitment. I do not forget, of course, the legal and technical bottleneck that exists at this time to open a small piece, already ready, with about 10 km. Your opening is urgent! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] As for the electrification and requalification of the Beja-Casa Branca, this is an investment that only now has effective attention by the government. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Launched the contest for the study of the project, I also remember that it is planned to build an airport connection branch.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u127	It's a variant, it's not a branch!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u128	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also with regard to the electrification and requalification of Beja-Funcheira, it was proposed by my initiative that it should be included in the national investment plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u130	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u131	So let me tell you: Low Alentejo is one of the regions that will grow most in the coming years at the level of agricultural development, tourism, among others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore essential to accelerate these investments. By national cohesion, by the resilience of the sub-Alentejans, by Portugal, I ask you to continue to do your citizenship work, which, I am sure, complemented by that of the local voters, will bear fruit. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u132	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u133	Our region is not asking for anything that neither deserves nor is it so sorry; it is, yes, giving a cry of warning what we can contribute to the development of the country. You can count on the PS, you can count on me! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u134	You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 26 000 subscribers of this petition, which is, in fact, a work of gigantic citizenship of the sub-Alentejans. The Alentejans and the Bajo-Alentejans do not deserve their children to be born in service stations, within ambulances, and the maternity wards bar their doors on arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u136	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u137	That, indeed, is not worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u138	What did you guys do? Oh, my God! PSD and CDS, what did they do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u139	They do not deserve that in their region they do not have quality health services, do not have specialist doctors, do not have nurses. They do not, for example, deserve permanent cold water baths in the hospital in Évora. The most fragile in our region do not deserve the health service we have. The Alentejos do not deserve that the White House-Beja railway line is not considered a priority. Low-alentejans should consider inhuman using a prehistoric locomotive on that line, without air conditioning, always damaged. The Lower Alentejo or, better, the whole Alentejo does not effectively deserve the region to be in the conditions in which it is. It deserves Funcheira's line to become a reality and to be considered in regional projects. The Alentejans do not deserve the Sines-Caia freight train to have stations serving companies in the region. The Alentejos don't deserve to see the trains passing. Low Alentejo does not deserve the lack of completion of decisive road infrastructures for its development. The example of IP8 and A26 are flagrant. Lower Alentejo does not deserve to have an airport to flies, without it being part of a national air transport strategy. Alentejos do not deserve to see Alqueva products being transformed outside the region. The Alentejans do not deserve the funds not to be used for the creation of business infrastructures in the region, in particular what is fundamental to us, which is the creation of an agro-industrial cluster, which effectively serves the region. Low Alentejo does not deserve a strong link between its greatest potential, which is being wasted: Alqueva products, its transformation, business infrastructure, tourism, a high-quality railway and highway, which serve its people, who serve their territory, who serve their businesses and who create jobs. This should be part of the region's development strategy. The Alentejos do not deserve to continue to be deceived by this socialist government, with communist support, that everything has promised them and has done nothing! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It was four years lost! I repeat, four years lost! Isn't there a project that can present to the region? Oh, my God! A project carried out by the State? Oh, my God! A project that may present to the region? Oh, my God! A region that has everything to make sure deserves more! You deserve more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u140	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u141	Beja deserves more! Lower Alentejo deserves more! Alentejo deserves more! A region that feeds deserves much more! Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u142	At least one member of the PSD Beja was entitled to intervene, not one of Évora! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u143	It's Alentejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u144	We therefore close this debate and move on to the joint debate of Petition No 525 / XIII / 3. a ( Vasco Rodeia Torres Colaço et al.) — They request the creation of legislation clarifying what corresponds to a « service effectively provided» for the purposes of Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July as well as the definition of criteria for updating banking commissions, and of Law Projects No 790 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ), 791 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted for consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ) and 1199 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers. There's something wrong here, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, because the titles of the two Bills of the Left Block seem the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u145	Mr President, if I may, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u146	You have the floor, Mrs Deputy, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u147	Mr President, if I may, the titles are almost equal, but they have a difference: one concerns consumer credit and the other concerns housing credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u148	Nor did he say that the content was no different, he said that he just didn't read the title, because it was the same, but I thank you for your correction, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u149	Mr President, it is precisely the last word of each title that separates and distinguishes the two types of credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u150	You are right, Mrs. Member, thank you very much for your correction. To begin the debate with the presentation of the two legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been a long time since the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association (DECO) alerts us to a problem which has only worsened. I am obviously referring to the banking committees, which have assumed astronomical proportions and absurd contours. The fact is that banks lost profitability during the crisis, lost profitability with lower interest rates and are trying to recover that profitability at the expense of the most bizarre commissions. The most recent example is this travel decision of the General Deposit Box — however reverted, as we know — to simply stop paying interest below 1 €. It's unacceptable and it's good that the Box has retreated. But there are other odd commissions that remain: they are the exorbitant deposit commissions in order, commissions for operations on the counter, commissions for cheques and cards, commissions for non-debt declarations that banks are obliged to issue, commissions for issuing the distraction and, my preference for all, the commission for collecting the loan. Not only do people pay their credit to housing as the bank charges them a commission to go to their account to withdraw the benefit, and in all this it adds an absolutely disproportionate power from banks to customers, which makes banks feel in law and will to unilaterally change credit conditions, regardless of consumer credit or housing contracts. In spite of this, it should be remembered that this is not the first time this matter is discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. It has not been as far as we would have liked, but important steps have been taken and I would like to highlight, in these important steps, what is most important to us: the bank service account, which has been extended. The bank service account does not reach as many people as we would like, but it is a good resource for anyone who wants to access basic banking services without paying commissions. It has limitations, but it was a good instrument that came out of the Assembly of the Republic. It is obvious, however, that this is not enough and that much more must be done. We now have two hypotheses: to find a structural measure which generally limits the committees — we have not yet found the most appropriate legislative solution to give this structural response to the committees — or to intervene surgically to prohibit, from now on, commissions which are unjustified. What the Block has proposed is that committees such as the committee should be prohibited from analysing the renegotiation of credits, from collecting claims, from issuing distraction or from declarations of non-debt. In addition to the immediate prohibition of these commissions, which are bizarre, absurd and unjustified, the Block has proposed that neither credit to housing nor consumer credit may banks unilaterally change credit conditions in order to affect the rate paid by bank customers. We know it doesn't solve all the problems. We are open, we will always be finding the best possible solutions, with DECO, with all parliamentary groups, but we believe that there are conditions at this time, so that these projects can be approved and enter into force quickly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u152	Before giving the floor to Mr Paulo Sá, I ask the parliamentary groups to sign up because the Bureau no longer registers. Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 20 000 citizens who have subscribed to DECO's petition on bank abuse in banking committees. It is precisely to protect bank clients from these abuses that the PCP brings today to debate a bill on minimum banking services, a bill that, being approved, will ensure that all citizens have access to an account to the order in which the value of the maintenance commission is limited by law. The minimum banking services scheme was created 19 years ago, but the number of accounts in order in this scheme is still very limited, with only 60 000 being a drop of water in an ocean of accounts in order. This is because there is still a restriction in the legislation on access to minimum banking services: whoever has an account in order of this type can no longer have any account in any bank. This is a very strong restriction that prevents the overwhelming majority of people from accessing the minimum banking services scheme, since, for various reasons, there is often a need to have more than one account in order. To boost the minimum banking services regime, making it more suited to the needs of banking customers, it is necessary to remove this restriction in access and that is exactly what makes the PCP bill. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bankers hate the banking service system. They like to have their hands totally free to scramble, at their bel-pleaser, bank customers. They love to be able to create commissions for everything and something else and thus multiply their profits. They therefore abhor all legislative initiatives — such as those brought by the CFP today — which limit their chances of circumventing bank customers through the misuse of commissions. But the concern of the PCP is not with the happiness of the bankers and the multiplication of their profits. The concern of the CFP is with the access of citizens, of all citizens, of basic banking services, an access which does not place them at the mercy of the abuses of banks. The PCP bill, not solving all problems with banking commissions, responds to the problem of commission maintenance of accounts in order, substantially improving a regime to which bank customers can resort to to protect themselves from abuses of banks and bankers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we will vote on the PCP bill on minimum banking services. in this vote, you may be on the side of bank customers, protecting them from bank abuse, or you may be on the side of the bankers, leaving your hands free to continue to scour your customers. on our part, we have no doubt, we are on the customer's side, but on which side will the PS be placed? Oh, my God! Will you join the PSD and CDS to support the bankers or choose to be in the right place next to the PCP to defend citizens and their right to access basic banking services? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u154	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners and the DECO. This petition, which has collected large subscriptions, has to do with a problem that, I believe, does not go side by side with any Portuguese and that has to do with the fact that the bank, the banks, increasingly, at the moment when the interest rates are particularly low, use as the principal or one of the main sources of revenue of their business not the loans, not the interest it charges for loans, but rather the commissions it charges for the most diverse and varied services, some of them, it is good to say, purely imaginary services. What this petition seeks is that, legislatively, it should be said what meaning the concept of « effectively provided service», which, in fact, resulted from legislation also proposed by the CDS in the past legislature, to try to discipline the committees and not to charge entirely abusive commissions. In fact, we recognize that this legislation has not had the expected effect, because on the one hand the Banco de Portugal simply does not supervise banks in this area, it simply compiles information and, on the other hand, commissions are still being charged which have no reason to be. In the study of this petition, we were also told that, legislatively, the best solution would not be to say what the service was actually provided, but rather to discipline some committees. From that point of view, our agreement deserves the idea that commissions for the payment of benefits do not make sense. I would stress that this is true not only in consumer credit or housing credit, but, from our point of view, in any credit. If the person has an obligation to pay the bank every month, what does the bank make sense to charge him/her fees for that obligation? It's just, if you don't pay, the bank goes after it executes it! At least, if you don't have a big debt, then you see some practices. [[Rice from the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] But in any case, we are talking about the overwhelming majority of customers, who should not be hundreds of millions. Therefore, this idea has our agreement, if it is in relation to all the credits and not just to some. On the issue of minimum banking services, we do not think that it solves the situation either. The solution seems to us, above all, to discipline some committees and eliminate others that make no sense, and we are also concerned about some committees that are manifestly abusive. In addition, we cannot systematically say that we are concerned about credit to companies and then, as happens, talk only, systematically, about credit to individuals. With regard to the two projects of the Block, the purpose of which seems to me to be correct, I would just like to highlight not only this issue of having to be for all credits, but also the fact that they have an interpretive standard which, from our point of view, is a true norm with retroactive effectiveness that cannot remain. Interpretation rules are one thing, retroactive effectiveness on contracts that are already in force is another.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u156	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u157	So, with these technical details, they have our agreement. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u158	Mr Fernando Anastácio spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the DECO and the more than 20 000 subscribers to this petition and recognizing that its object and the issues raised therein, in particular the worsening of the cost of the banking committees which have been verified, particularly in the post-financial crisis, are indeed a matter of concern. This matter, because of its importance, is credible with all our attention, in order to find appropriate formulas to protect depositors, ensuring a sound financial system. As for the bills submitted by BE, following this petition, without any discussion of the merit of the proposals, I must leave a first note. These projects were presented in February this year, so if they were so important or if they were a priority — and even I admit that they are — it is not understood that their schedule has been awaited so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u160	I heard him here yesterday saying that the last days of the Legislature were for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u161	Exactly! And there's all the commitment, but the criticism has got to stay, because since February the Left Block could have put these problems on the agenda and didn't. As far as the merits of the proposals are concerned, in our view, this is just a matter of marking the agenda and little more. Without prejudice to what I have just mentioned, we have followed some of the concerns expressed in the proposals, in particular with regard to unilateral contractual amendments, particularly with regard to housing credit, as well as the increase in the cost of banking commissions and certain banking services, which, in our view, is not justified. However, we also believe that these are legislative options that need to be considered and that, in fact, in line with what Mrs Mariana Mortagua has said, they deserve, in our perspective, a structural and global approach. That is why we have some reservations about the moment we are discussing these proposals, but we will certainly not fail to be committed to finding the most appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u162	Last night he said the opposite! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u163	As for the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party, I must recognize that it is not innovative, since a similar project has already been presented in this Parliament. This project is based on a view that adherence to the bank's minimum service account is weak. It happens that, in our perspective, reality is quite different. It is important to say—and the Portuguese Communist Party said—that there are about 60 000 bank-minimum service accounts, with a 33 % growth in late 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u164	It's a low number! It's almost nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u165	It is also important to note that in 2015 there were only 13 000 of these bank accounts and that their number quadrupled. The question of the bank account is to solve a financial exclusion problem, i.e. to guarantee those who have no other accounts the possibility of having one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u166	Give the bankers a ticket!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u167	However, the Portuguese Communist Party's approach to this matter does not seem conceptually correct, which is why we cannot agree with the proposal, in terms in which it is formulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u168	You're gonna give the bankers a ticket once more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u169	The absence of other accounts and the guarantee of a bank minimum service account are indeed a financial inclusion. This is the object of these accounts and therefore we cannot follow the Communist Party's proposal on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u170	To close this debate, Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the 20 000 citizens who subscribe to this petition, promoted by DECO. The PSD has always taken this issue of banking services as a central concern of its performance. So in the past mandate, we started a number of legislative changes that had a very positive effect on consumer access to essential banking services, with reduced prices. We made it compulsory for all banks to offer minimum bank services accounts to all Portuguese people when they were willing to join this scheme. We can, with ownership — you are quite right, Mr Fernando Anastácio Socialist Party Member — to say that this initiative has led to an increase in the number of bank service accounts more than four times. We have contributed, with these amendments, to ensure that no one is excluded from the banking and financial system and have established a decisive general principle, in which we have obliged banks only to charge fees for services effectively provided, i.e. when they had associated services. There are several criticisms about the densification of this concept, but it happens that we have not seen any suggestion to date that could better densify what is a bank commission or not. We therefore consider that this process is not over, until, for the last few days, there have been facts in the General Deposit Box that we cannot fail to signal. Customers were confronted with the possibility of being polished of the interest of their deposits, at least unqualified situation, an unprecedented innovation in the financial sector. We are not surprised because this is another price hidden in the proposed restructuring of the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u172	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u173	... where Portuguese taxpayers carry an invoice of EUR 5000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u174	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u175	The accounts, several chapters of this novel have occurred: first, it was the decision to end with the exemptions of commissions for young and old and then the General Deposit Box, within two years, made three widespread increases of commissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u176	They approve the PCP proposal to put an end to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Imagine what the opposite situation would be if customers were to be exempt from paying interest dues and commissions up to 1 €. We are not surprised, but we are surprised and condemn this action, because from the inside of the public bank, which, because of its character, should act on the market as a beacon for the rest of the banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u178	So you're going to vote on the PCP project to end it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u179	The General Deposit Box should be an example of good practice for the rest of the market. That is why it makes sense to have a public bank, which serves as an informal regulator and is a kind of compass for the other private competitors. Unfortunately, the General Deposit Box, on the contrary, leads by the bad example, crushing its customers with commissions, essentially those of the weaker sectors, such as young people, elders and now those with lower incomes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u180	It's not just the Box, it's all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u181	And they're gonna do what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u182	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to Petition No 546 / XIII / 4. a ( Nuno Miguel Neves dos Prazeres et al.) — They call for measures to defend the right to education in Fatima, together with the Resolution Projects Nos. 1853 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima parish and 1937 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in Fátima parish. To initiate the debate, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presented this draft resolution following a petition from the Fátima Civil Movement School for All, whose petitioners have already met. This project and this petition are, in fact, the ideological option of this government, which led to the cancellation of numerous association contracts with colleges that, for decades, have ensured the quality teaching of our students. In Fatima, the case is too flagrant, because there is no public response and for decades three colleges have been ensuring the education of thousands of students. In fact, Fatima is a unique case in our country. Thus, by ideological choice of this government, of the PS, supported by the Left Block and the PCP, in 2018, more than 100 students were forced to leave the schools they attended in Fatima, many of them separated from their brothers, to travel to other parish churches, more than 20 km away, and even to schools in the neighboring district, Leiria. The government has recently taken the mistake it made last year, allowing the opening of more classes for the next school year, two of 7. the year and one of 10. the year, but still, the error and damage are not solved, in the case of students who, last year, were left with no class, leaving a very strong brand. On the one hand, the number of students per class will be reduced and, therefore, the number of students who are left unanswered in the new cycle of studies that will start is maintained, because, although there are more classes, there are fewer students per class. Therefore, the number of students left unanswered remains. On the other hand, the more than 100 students who, last school year, had lost their place in Fatima continue to fail to see their situation resolved, because there was no opening of new classes of 8. is 9. years. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the petition we have discussed today gave rise to this draft resolution of the CDS-PP, which awaits and wishes the Government to resolve and end this gross error and the injustice of this ideological option that it has made, without any kind of criterion. In the concrete case of Fatima parish, in the council of Ourem, this is too obvious and it is extremely unfair that the three schools with association contract, which have ensured quality education, leave a huge set of students from all social strata and all levels of income without response. It is necessary to give them an answer, because all students are equal, they should all have the same answer, they should all be entitled to quality education and should not be separated from their brothers and relatives, they should have an answer close to home. This situation is unacceptable...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u184	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u185	...and the government has to solve this case, which it hasn't done yet. The decision to open this number of classes for the next school year, it must be said, does not solve the problem of Fatima students. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u186	Before giving the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua, she asked the other parliamentary groups to proceed with their registrations because the Bureau no longer registers. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u187	Mr President, first of all I would like to greet the petitioners and the petitioners who expressed this concern about school and the right to education in Fatima. I would like to say that it is understandable the concern of Fatima families regarding the stability and predictability of the educational offer in that parish, which has 11 000 inhabitants, according to the censuses, but which has much more people working, increasing to double with the workers whose children attend school in Fatima. What is not understandable is that a parish with this dimension in 2019 has no public school beyond 1. the cycle. This is not understandable, given the constitutional obligation to create a public school that responds to the needs of the country and to the right of these children and families to attend public school. Private education and confessional education, religious education, is a right of families and must always be a respected choice, but it cannot be an obligation. It cannot be a family obligation, put children in religious school, because the state offers them no alternative. We do not intend to re-edit the debate that the country has already made on association contracts and on the right of all children to public school and the obligation of the State to guarantee. As for the position on the right, we also know it: it will defend everything against public school...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u188	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u189	...and all the interests above those of the public school. Nor the most recent scandals regarding the promiscuity between the private interests of the colleges and the entities behind these same interests will demolish the right of their ideological option, which is to attack the public school. They do not have the Constitution on their side and, therefore, it is not at this level that we have this discussion. We believe that in places where there is no public school association contracts should ensure the frequency of these students in private schools as required. That is not a matter of public debate, it is a matter of law. Our project is not about that. Our project is to comply with the Constitution by saying that the students of Fatima are no less or less entitled than any of this country's students and therefore have the right to public school. There are no powers above the State and there are no interests above the interest of students and their right to public school. That is why our project proposes that the Constitution be fulfilled and Fatima ceases to be the only parish in the country where students do not have the right to attend public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u190	You now have the floor by the PCP, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, it is important to greet the subscribers of this petition and to say that, in our view, the absence of a public school that serves the population of Fátima from 5 onwards is incomprehensible. the year of education. In fact, there is a constitutional imperative for the State to ensure the universality of access to public education and that is, indeed, to be ensured. There is, in our constitutional framework, recognition of the existence of private schools in public education, of course, that in certain situations there are association contracts — from our point of view, these contracts must exist where the public network is insufficient — but irrespective of whether it is for the State to guarantee the possibility of all children and young people to attend. Indeed, that is what is missing when it is known that there is only public education at level 1 in Fatima. the cycle of basic education. With the population and geographical dimension and the importance of Fatima's parish, this is not understood in the current times. Therefore, what is required is that there be, on the part of the State, the investment necessary to ensure that children and young people from that important parish of the municipality of Ourem have the possibility to attend public education. from that we share the concern expressed in the draft resolution which is today taken the vote. What is required is that, on the part of the Ministry of Education, there be the public investment necessary for the public school to reach everywhere and, for the most part, where it has to reach a very important parish, with a large number of children and young people who need to attend school and who should do so in conditions of accessibility, without having to travel away from their places of residence. That's what we think. There is a State failure, which has a constitutional consecration that must be fulfilled and, of course, the Ministry of Education must take the necessary steps and make the investments necessary for this objective to be met and children and young people in Fátima must have access to public school, as is their right and as is the duty of the State to ensure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u192	On behalf of the Socialist Party, for an intervention, Mr António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to greet the petitioners and say that the three initiatives we are discussing today on the three Fatima colleges and their association contracts are a source of great satisfaction for the PS. These three initiatives result from a major debate in the Council of Oure and in the Fátima parish and I would like to say that given the action of the Government, the City Council, myself and other Members, it was possible that the last competition, which ended this month, would have completed the needs of classes financed by the State. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Fatima is a single case parish in the country, because there is no public education, other than 1. the cycle. Fatima and its colleges complement, with high quality and results, the public network of the city council of Ourem — see the public rankings. However, due to the Government's clear study of needs, the competition this month for the years 2019 - 2022, launched and already completed, solved virtually all this issue, assigning two more classes to 7. the year and one to 10. the year, subsidized by public money, according to everyone's will: schools, parents, educational community and municipal council. That is, this petition and its subscribers, the city of Fatima, these draft resolutions, the will of the government and of the Members have borne good fruit and, today, this issue has been overcome with strict and political sensitivity also by the Secretary of State Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u195	I would also like to say that Fatima deserves, in fact, our whole dedication, and therefore stresses the value of the civic movement and the political work carried out in Ourem in great harmony and consonance, in the sense that such desire could have been achieved. I can only point out with sadness that some Members who participated in the previous Government, who were sitting here during the mandate of the previous Government, who in May 2015 cut six classes for the school year of 2016 have never brought any draft resolution to condemn their Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u197	The memory is very short, because this time there were 300 students who left the three schools and returned to Porto de Mós, to the Battle, to Leiria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At that time, you forgot to come here to make this number. I also wanted to tell you that the CDS has forgotten this and the consequences that it has had for more than 300 people. Today, we have about 100 students who, as a result of the success of the network that was done last year, are out of school, but have three public schools at 10 km: Santa Catarina da Serra, Grouping of Schools of Ourem and Grouping of Schools of Conde de Ourem, who have completed the problem and absorbed these students.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u198	Mr. António Gameiro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u199	It is also to say that we do not have this kind of attitude, the problem is solved, the school community is stabilized and I think that all the political, social and school officials are happy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u200	To close the debate on the sixth item on the agenda, Mr Duarte Marques, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As rapporteur for this petition, I would like to welcome the subscribers and all those who have joined in this debate. I wanted to start by restoring the truth to the Socialist Party, telling him that he has to decide. Members of the Education Commission spent four years saying that the PSD has increased money for private schools with association contracts and now Mr António Gameiro has come here saying that the PSD has also cut association contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u202	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u203	You understand! They say so much that no one ever believes what they say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u204	It's true! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u205	And then we have the ideological blindness of the PCP, the Bloc and this Government of the Socialist Party, which led to errors that they now recognize. Perhaps it is necessary to know that the Pope is coming to Portugal soon for the Block, the PCP and the Government to see the light! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u206	The students at Fatima don't blame your ideological blindness. They wanted so much to close classes that they left students on the same street to pay for public school, others to pay for private school.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u207	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u208	You have to have an option: when there is no public offer, there are association contracts. What you can't want to expel students who live in the same county, in the same parish and in the same street, in which some pay for public school and others go to public school! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] This is unfair and discriminatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u209	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u210	That is why today in these schools there are classes that are free and there are classes that are paid, by the ideological blindness of this government, the Bloc and the PCP. Children don't blame your ideological blindness. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u211	For these students, there are two options: either the state pays more vacancies in private school or build a new school in Fatima, because the public education service is for everyone, it is not only for the other municipalities. In four years of government, they had a solution: they gave jobs to those who needed a parish and a municipality where the number of students increased— 14 % increase the birth rate— instead of forcing the people of that parish to go to study in another district or another municipality. So what's fair is the following: don't you like association contracts? Make a public school for those kids.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u212	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u213	Do not let your prejudice, your hatred of the Church and of the private school, be detrimental to the lives of these people. Therefore, ideological prejudice has harmed the children of Fatima and what we want here and now is that they assume and or increase the vacancies for those who live there...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u214	There are no vacancies there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u215	...and you have the right to school or make a public school, as all the rest of the country has the right. What you should not allow is that your hatred harms those who want to study and those who want to learn. The Parliament of this country has the right to guarantee access to public school for all. Whether it's a public school or whether this public service is exercised by private people, to me right now, it's indifferent to me. What I want is for students to have access to a quality school and if it has to be a state-built school. What I don't want to see is some paying for a school that should be free and the others have to teach it free and free, as is due by our Constitution. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u216	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this agenda item is closed. The next point is draft Law No 1005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the Freguesia de Castelões and the Union of Freguesias de Ruivães and Novais, of the Municipality of Vila Nova de Famalicão. This point has no time for discussion and is properly recorded. We shall therefore turn to the last item on the Rules of Procedure. It is not 12 hours yet, but the rule is that the votes will begin after the implementation of the agenda items. Let's create conditions for the gentlemen. Members may take their seats and, of course, request the services to prepare the electronic registration system. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco's secretary to make an announcement to the House. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform the House that Mr President has admitted draft resolution No 2265 / XIII / 4. a ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that it undertake to conduct a study on how the benefits in Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January could be attributed to the former local recruiters without any contributory career registers in the schemes provided for in paragraph 2 of that Act, which falls to 3. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u218	I would like to inform you that the electronic record for the Members is still under way. Ladies and gentlemen who just entered the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 194 presences, to which seven are added, of the Members. Members of the PS Luís Moreira Testa, Joaquim Barreto and Catarina Marcelino and Mrs. PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, Ana Sofia Bettencourt, Clara Marques Mendes and Emídio Guerreiro. So let us move on to the moment of appreciation of the votes. First, we have Vote No 854 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Manuel Costa Braz, to whom I associate. The vote will be read by Mr Miranda Calha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 1st, Manuel Costa Braz. Man of April, he lived handed over to the public cause, without expecting privileges or rewards. To the discretion associated an incorruptible hombity and signed, with autonomy and independence, all lines of an impressive curriculum. Born on 4 November 1934, in Pombalinho, he joined the political commission of the Armed Forces Movement. As an official, he served three service committees in the former colonies, two in Angola and one in Guinea. He was a military deputy of the Prime Minister of the I Provisional Government and joined the Administrative Commission of the RTP. He was Minister of Internal Administration in the II and III Provisional Governments and in the I and II Constitutional Governments, between 1976 and 1980, taking a decisive role in the organization of the electoral census, in the preparation of elections for the Constituent Assembly and in the first autonomous elections. He was the first Ombudsman of the country, in 1975, and High Commissioner against Corruption, between 1983 and 1993. Leaves a greater legacy that deserves to be applauded by the free and democratic country that helped build. Thus, meeting in plenary session on 5 July 2019, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Manuel Costa Braz and addresses his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u220	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now pass to Vote No 856 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the death of Antonio Hespanha, who will be read by Mrs Sandra Pontedeira. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of Antonio Manuel Hespanha, a major figure in Portuguese historiography last July. Graduated in Law in 1967, the interest of Antonio Hespanha for History was expressed with the postgraduate degree in Historical-Journal Sciences and consolidated with the doctorate and aggregation in Institutional and Political History. As a teacher and researcher, António Hespanha was considered one of the great renewers of the institutional and political history of the Iberian countries and their colonial extensions, having published extensive and profound work on this subject. The Center for Research and Development on Law and Society of the New University of Lisbon described it as ‘the most internationally cited Portuguese historian’. António Hespanha was General Commissioner for the Commemoration of Portuguese Discoveries from 1997 to 2000 ; member of the Instituto Histórico-Geographica do Rio de Janeiro and of scientific advice and editorial advice from different university institutions and publications, such as the Institute of Social Sciences of the University of Lisbon, the University of Luís de Camões and the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra. It is also to highlight its collaboration with the Assembly of the Republic, as one of the scientific commissioners of the exhibition The Test of Time: 40 Years of Constitution, from 21 April to 21 June 2016. He received the University of Coimbra Prize and the badges of the Great Officer of the Order of Sant ́Iago da Espada, the degrees of Doctor Honoris Cause of the Universities of Lucerne, in Switzerland, and Federal do Paraná, in Brazil, and of Reading Marc Bloch, of the École des Hautes Étudesen Sciences Sociales de Paris. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen, of the exemplary historian and thinker, and addresses the deepest condolences to the family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u222	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we have the vote No 858 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PS and subscribed by PSD Members ) — regret and condemnation by the terrorist attacks in Tunis, which will be read by Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 27, two suicide bombers committed two successive terrorist attacks in the centre of Tunisian capital, Tunis, causing the death of a police officer and wounding eight people, including six police officers and two civilians. The attacks were claimed by the self-proclaimed ‘Islamic state’, which has sought to destabilize the countries of the North African region, instigating cowardly the fear of their populations and creating political and economic instability. These attacks are another example of their inhumane methods that deserve absolute condemnation of all those who respect human dignity and freedom. These attacks are also aimed at democracy itself, in a country where the democratic regime has been consolidated in recent years, in a context of regional instability. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its vehement condemnation of the attacks in Tunisia and expresses its deepest sorrow for the victims of the attack. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 859 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Grief and condemnation of the humanitarian situation in the Mediterranean, which will be read by Mr. Secretary António Carlos Monteiro. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Recent developments in the Mediterranean Sea well illustrate the institutional inability of the European Union to manage migration. Despite the decline in migration flows in the Mediterranean compared to the year of greater intensity, 2015, the Union continues not to meet this challenge, to be dominated by disarticulation of its positions and by the absence of effective protection and humanitarian assistance mechanisms. Since the beginning of the year, there have been 584 people who lost their lives trying to cross the two Mediterranean shores. It is surprising that in 2019 it is more dangerous to try to make this journey than in 2015. This year, one in 45 migrants died trying to cross one margin to the other, which represents a negative evolution compared to previous years. There is increasingly less space for isolated positions or actions motivated by unilateral purposes. in this sense, it would well be the Union if all its States assumed that migration is not an exclusive problem of the countries of entry, such as Italy, Greece or Spain, but of the entire external border of the Union. Not recognizing this evidence is to accept a pernicious logic and contrary to solidarity, depositing control and organization of migratory phenomena in the hands of trafficking and smuggling networks. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its sorrow for the 584 deaths of migrants recorded so far in the Mediterranean Sea; 2 — Condemns all radical views preventing legitimate humanitarian aid; 3 — Expresses its support for the defence of European cooperation and the strengthening of the Union's mechanisms to combat illegal trafficking in human beings and humanitarian aid, leaving no State isolated; 4 — Reiterates the importance of cooperation and the promotion of peace as a structural form of containment of these flows. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we passed to Vote No 860 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Paulo Nunes de Almeida, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Paulo Nunes de Almeida was born on March 24, 1959, in the city of Porto. Graduated in Economics from the University of Porto and having begun his professional life in 1982 at the Portuguese Bank of the Atlantic in 1984 devoted himself to business life. He was founder and vice-president of ANJE (National Association of Young Entrepreneurs), held positions in the Trade Association of Porto, in the Textile Clothing Association of Portugal, in the Confederation of Enterprises of Portugal and finally in the Association of Business of Portugal. In 2014, it became its 30. the President, after having served for six years as Vice-President of the same Association. During his professional career, he gave a strong impetus to modernising the economy, innovation and business vitality, in a special way in the textile sector, to which he had been linked for several years. He was also president of the Tax Council of the Football Club of the Port and the SAD of the same Club. He received the 2016 ANJE Career Award, awarded by the National Young Entrepreneurs Association. Paulo Nunes de Almeida was also awarded with the Grand Cross of the Order of Business Merit by the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, during the commemoration ceremony of the 170 years of the Association Entrepreneurial de Portugal. The country and in a special way the Port lose a sensible citizen, committed and with a sense of service and a strong culture of proximity, alongside the different sectors to which it has been linked. He died yesterday, July 4th, victim of prolonged disease. To his family and the Portuguese Business Association, the Assembly of the Republic addresses the most felt condolences when each man is truly irreplaceable. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence, for all the regrets that we have just adopted. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] In view of the Bureau, it is impressive the number of citizens and citizens who are accompanying our work in the galleries. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome and congratulate all of you on your interest in our work. [[General applause.]] We passed to Vote No 853 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemning Carola Rackete's arrest by the Italian authorities and of concern for the situation experienced by NGOs in the Mediterranean. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u230	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u231	Mr President, as the drafts of the votes were distributed at the last hour, we have had some difficulty and we are still trying to transcribe some of the votes. Therefore, in relation to Vote No 859 / XIII / 4. a, submitted by the CDS-PP, the vote of the Left Block shall be abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u232	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u233	It does not alter the outcome of the vote, but the registration is done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u235	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u236	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on vote No 853 / XIII / 4. the left block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u237	Of course, it's recorded. We turn to the vote on vote No 855 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and signed by PS Members ) — Praised for the participation and results achieved by Paralympic athletes at the European Youth Games. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote vote No 857 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Greetings for the provision of Portuguese sportsmen at the II European Games. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 1095 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition of dog racing, more known as chicken racing. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 12 PS (Ana Passos, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Elza Pais, Hugo Carvalho, Ivan Gonçalves, Luís Graça, Maria Conceição Loureiro, Marisabel Moutela and Pedro Delgado Alves).]] We will continue with the general vote of Bill No 1225 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ban chicken races and other dogs. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 12 PS (Ana Passos, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Elza Pais, Hugo Carvalho, Ivan Gonçalves, Luís Graça, Maria Conceição Loureiro, Marisabel Moutela and Pedro Delgado Alves).]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1081 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, for ratification, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by the United Nations, on 7 July 2017. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of 1 PS Member (Pedro Delgado Alves).]] We will then vote in general on Resolution No. 1864 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of 1 PS Member (Pedro Delgado Alves).]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1954 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and one PS Member (Pedro Delgado Alves).]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1958 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of 1 PS Member (Pedro Delgado Alves).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u239	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u240	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on the initiatives we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u241	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 1889 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 4 PS (Christina Jesus, Elza Pais, João Gouveia and Pedro Coimbra) and abstentions from PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1903 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, thus increasing the number of public beds on this network. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 4 PS (Christina Jesus, Elza Pais, João Gouveia and Pedro Coimbra) and abstentions from PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 1956 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — The implementation of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão (Penacova). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 4 PS (Christina Jesus, Elza Pais, João Gouveia and Pedro Coimbra) and abstentions from PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the Proposal for a Law No 203 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the land structure regime. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The bill goes down to 7. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the following is the Proposal for a Law No 196 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create a system for the collection, registration and analysis of data on science and technology. In the script, voting in general, speciality and overall finality of this bill is planned. I wonder if anyone is opposed to voting in a single way. [[Pause.]] Once there's no objection, that's how we do it. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u243	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u244	Mr President, it is to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u245	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote on the request submitted by the PS, requesting the general vote on the proposal for a Law No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u246	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u247	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u248	Mr President, it is to provide an explanation to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u249	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u250	Mr President, we have tabled a proposal for an amendment, in particular, and I believe that the adoption of this request does not remove the possibility of voting on this amendment as well. It was just to frame that right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u251	Of course, this will be done, because if we move to a phase of expertise, it will be all the proposals to be deliberate. We shall then vote on the request submitted by the PS, requesting the general vote in the general, speciality and overall end of the Bill No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements". [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We therefore proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 204 / XIII / 4. a. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We are now passing on to Supplement II on the vote on this proposal for a law. Let us begin with the vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding a new paragraph 2 to Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — It shall enjoy the right to acquire the owner of the benefactory or improve that explicitly demonstrates this claim, being the heritage value of the soil determined in accordance with Article 4.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u252	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, amending Article 3 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — In the absence of the above paragraph, the owner of the largest asset-value component to be determined in accordance with Article 4 shall be entitled to the owner of the land or benefactory or to compensate the owner for the estimated value.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u253	We shall then vote on Article 3 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from BE, the PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall vote on Article 3 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] For Article 3 ( 4 ). the other articles of the bill, I was informed that no amendments have been tabled, so I wonder if we can vote them together in the specialty. [[Pause.]] The CFP intends to vote separately on Article 5. the proposal for a law, and therefore we will have to vote alone on Article 3 ( 4 ). o. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Article 3 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on Articles 1 shall follow. o, 2. o, 4. it's 6. o 11. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the Bill No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements". [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 162 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Change the value added tax code(CIVA) and return electricity to list 1 — Goods and services subject to reduced VAT rate. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u254	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u255	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u256	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on the bill which has now been rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u257	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães also asks for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u258	Yes, it is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u259	It is also registered, Mr Deputy. We now have two demands: one, submitted by the PS requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting until 19 July of the Bill No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the arrangements applicable to the inventory process; and another, submitted by the CFP, requesting the Commission's discharge, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code, establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the pawnage and the execution of mortgages and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Change the legal regime of the inventory process by strengthening the general control powers of the judge. The PCP requirement refers to a period of 30 days and the PS requirement refers to the date of 19 July, but it is the same date, the deadline. With this understanding and without opposition, we will vote on the two demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Legislative initiatives therefore go down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. We shall now proceed to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime of the European arrest warrant. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 192 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — implements Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, implementing enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, and the NAP, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of BE, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now have three demands: one, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting until 19 July of the Bill Nos 200 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of performing medical and forensic expertise and 205 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the legal regime for access to law and courts; a second, submitted by BE, requesting the Commission to be discharged, without a vote until 19 July of Bill No 1232 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Determines the amendment of the Legal Regime of Judicial Costs in order to ensure greater access to courts by workers, precarious workers and the generality of citizens( 14 ). the amendment to the Rules of Procedure ) ; and a third, submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge of the same Commission, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 1233 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access to law and courts. If there is no opposition, let us together make these three demands. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The legislative initiatives concerned are down to 1. the Commission until 19 July. We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 199 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures implementation and ensures compliance in the domestic legal order of the obligations arising from Regulation ( EU ) No 536 / 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes mechanisms for settling disputes involving the competent authorities of Portugal and other Member States of the European Union as a result of the interpretation and application of international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1852. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We now have three requirements: one, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions without a vote of Bill No 1196 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — establishes additional limitations and advertising rules for the appointment of political office holders and 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates the entity for transparency in the exercise of public office and draft resolution No 1239 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the code of conduct of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic ; another, submitted by the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, requesting the discharge to the same Commission without a vote of Bill No 1198 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January 2004 and the second amendment to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December No 1200 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007 to the second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August 2008 to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February 2008 and to the second amendment to the Statute of the Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Commission, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 2011 and No 121 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The second amendment is made to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration, published in Annex A to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December ; and the second is submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge to the same Commission, without a vote, of Bill No 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the organisation and operation law of the entity for transparency and proceeds to 9. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ) and of draft resolution No 2174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic. If there is no opposition, we will vote on these three demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The legislative initiatives in question are therefore downgraded to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions. The vote on draft resolution No 2239 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — General principles for awarding grants to support the political activity of Members. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u260	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u261	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u262	To announce that I will give a vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u263	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1904 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends the adoption of legislative and awareness-raising measures related to cardiac resuscitation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma is down to 9. the commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 1951 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Training plan in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma is down to 9. the commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1955 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government introduce compulsory training in secondary education on basic life support-external automatic defibrillation « SBV - DAE ». [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma is down to 9. the commission. We now vote, in general, on the draft resolution No 2163 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Promotion of basic life support procedures. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma is down to 9. the commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1097 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Pigeiros, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reversing the Union of Freguesias imposed on the people by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, CFP, Os Verdes and 1 PS Member (António Cardoso) and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u264	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u265	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u266	To announce that I will give a vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u267	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1098 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Caldas de São Jorge, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reversing the Union of Freguesias imposed on the people by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, CFP, Os Verdes and 1 PS Member (António Cardoso) and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u268	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u269	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u270	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes we have just voted on, i.e. draft Law No 1097 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1098 / XIII / 4. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u271	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u272	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u273	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u274	We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1271 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the Metropolitan of Lisbon and an expansion plan that really serves populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u275	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u276	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u277	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau whether a request has been made for a separate vote on point 5 of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u278	Mr President, the view behind the guidance of the Conference of Leaders is that when the diplomas are not finally voted in the plenary — and I am talking about the resolutions — and when they come down to the committee, there is no vote on points in general, because that is then the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u279	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u280	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u281	Mr President, this reasoning makes sense, but assuming that the projects will all be approved. In the absence of such an assumption, it is impossible to make such a reasoning, since it is not known what will be approved or not. Therefore, voting on points must indeed take place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u282	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, if, perhaps, in the votes which have an impact on this matter — since there is more than one draft resolution — the rest are rejected and only one remains, then it is done what the honourable Member has just mentioned. We agree, don't we? [[Pause.]] All right, we agree! Mrs. Members, we shall resume the general vote on draft resolution No 1271 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the Lisbon Metropolitan and an expansion plan that really serves populations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By an expansion of the Lisbon metropolitan network articulated with the mobility needs of the Metropolitan Area. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We will vote on draft resolution No 2122 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — By an expansion of the Lisbon metropolitan network articulated with the mobility needs of the Metropolitan Area. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 11 PS (Ascended Simões, Diogo León, Edite Estrela, Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joaquim Raposo, Marcos Perestrello, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Miguel Coelho, Pedro Delgado Alves and Wanda Guimarães) and the abstention of PS.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2124 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — For the suspension of the expansion project of the Metropolitan Line ( Carrossel ) in Lisbon. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the priority expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 12 PS Members (Ascended Simões, Diogo Leone, Edite Estrela, Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joaquim Raposo, Marcos Perestrello, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Miguel Coelho, Pedro Delgado Alves and Wanda Guimarães) and with abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1763 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — For compliance with the National Road Plan and full completion of the IP8 in the districts of Setúbal and Beja. [[Pause.]] We have only one draft resolution on this subject and there is a request from the honourable Member not to vote separately on point 5. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of this? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members of the PS board, are you aware that we are now just going to vote on point 5 of this resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u283	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u284	Let us then vote point 5 of draft resolution No 1763 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and abstentions from PAN and 7 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino, Eurídice Pereira, Ivan Gonçalves, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo and Sofia Araújo).]] We shall now vote on the remaining points of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 7 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino, Eurídice Pereira, Ivan Gonçalves, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo and Sofia Araújo) and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u285	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u286	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u287	Mr. President, it is to inform that the PS Members elected by the circles of Beja, Évora and Setúbal, in particular the Deputies Pedro do Carmo, Norberto Patinho, Eurídice Pereira, Sofia Araújo, Catarina Marcelino, Ivan Gonçalves, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and I myself will present a vote statement on the vote that just took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u288	I think we're all satisfied and we can move forward. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 2196 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the electrification and requalification of the railway portion Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 951 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government pursue the establishment of a National Environmental Security Force ( National Environmental Security Task Forces - NEST ) in Portugal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u289	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u290	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u291	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1001 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop awareness-raising actions with citizens, promoting delivery in the pharmacy of packaging waste and residues of medicines purchased. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote, in general, on the Draft Resolution No 1467 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the resurgence of the profession of custodians by hiring and training at least 350 professionals. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1773 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — For the need to recover the profession of guardians, in the preservation and monitoring of water resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 11. the Commission. We will now vote for draft resolution No 1680 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government integrate into the overall plans for the management of the lobe-bírico the compulsoryity of refugee areas of wild prey in each population nucleus. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1967 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on the state of seagulls in coastal urban media. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 790 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 791 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the distraction and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, and also prohibits credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted for consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1199 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1853 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima parish. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u293	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u294	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u295	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Hugo Costa and Maria da Luz Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u296	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1937 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in Fátima parish. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u297	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u298	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u299	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Hugo Costa and Maria da Luz Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u300	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We now vote, in general, on the draft resolution No 2133 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the suspension of the competition limited by prior qualification for works extending the outer sea and their maritime accessibility in the port of Legions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the PCP abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2228 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government suspend the competitive procedure concerning the extension of the outer sea and the maritime accessibility of the port of Legions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the PCP abstention.]] Low to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u302	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u303	Mr President, I would like to announce that we will make an oral vote on the vote on these two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u304	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. As an oral vote, it will be at the end of the vote. We shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolution No 1939 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — National Investment Programme 2030. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of BE and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u305	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u306	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u307	It is to be noted, Mr President, that, on this last vote, we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u308	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u309	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u310	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u311	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u312	It is also registered, Mr. We will vote on draft resolution No 2140 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government launch the construction process of the Higher Health School of the Polytechnic Institute of Setúbal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u313	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u314	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u315	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u316	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1966 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Strengthening and monitoring conditions for the movement of bicycles in co-existence. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We will vote on the Resolution Project No 1947 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Extinction of the grant of tourist activity of the Estrela greenhouse by default. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1963 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Investment, infrastructure, national production — options for a future Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 426 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that Beja airport be valued as an instrument for the development of the region. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Members of PS Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo and the PS abstention.]] We will vote on the Resolution Project No 1943 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By tariff articulation and promotion of reduced transport prices in links between metropolitan areas and neighbouring intermunicipal communities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2063 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — potentiating tariff reduction for a strategic bet in promoting public transport. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2126 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — By an effective promotion of collective transport. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1987 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the urgent re-qualification of EN225. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2006 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma also falls to 6. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2156 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government initiate proceedings in order to comply with Portuguese legislation on the promotion of safety and health at work and labour rights by FEUSACHORES. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u317	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u318	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u319	Mr President, it is only to inform the House that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will deliver a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u320	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u321	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u322	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u323	Mr President, it is also to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u324	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1617 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of a training school for prison services. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u325	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u326	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u327	It is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u328	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 2170 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the modernisation and public control of the state emergency communications network. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1983 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to regulate the key and security systems sector. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 588 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Inclusion of RTP-Medeira and RTP-Azores on the national terrestrial digital television grid ( TDT ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 837 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to carry out actions to protect, enhance, disseminate and promote the Way ("Central") Portuguese of Santiago. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1654 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — The revitalization of the Agualva zenes. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u329	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u330	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u331	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u332	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1989 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government extend the specific system of access to reform to all slaughterhouse workers in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the vote against the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u333	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u334	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u335	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u336	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2138 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government rectify the working time count of local and coastal fishing workers for the purpose of pensions and reforms and the proper replacement of their rights. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against PS and the abstention of PS MP João Fonseca.]] We will see if this draft resolution goes down to the committee, because we are going to vote on the same subject. The general vote on draft resolution No 2178 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, for the purpose of accounting for social security, equate each day's batch discharge of local fishing vessels and coastal vessels to three working days. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, The Greens and PS Member João Fonseca.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2179 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government review the process of returning the retroactive pension taken by the masters/owners of the Association of Masters Owners of Craft Fisheries of the North Zone. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against PS and the abstention of PS MP João Fonseca.]] We now vote in general on draft resolution No 2192 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Harmonization and enforcement of rights in access to reform for fisheries professionals. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against PS and the abstention of PS MP João Fonseca.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u337	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u338	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u339	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the four previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Fonseca, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u341	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a written statement of vote on the last four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u342	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolutions in question are down to 10. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1073 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the profession of health assistant technician. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Pedro Delgado Alves.]] The general vote of Bill No 1088 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career as an auxiliary health technician. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 509 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Adds the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with rules for repair of accidents at work, making the tenth amendment of the Labour Code and the first amendment of Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 510 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 514 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Review the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases, making the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 716 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Promotes the participation of workers in safety and health at work ( First Amendment to Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 establishing the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The general vote of Bill No 842 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Determines the exemption from the costs of workers in actions for recognition of law or legally protected interest in occupational accidents and diseases ( Tenth amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Fifth Amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 542 / XIII / 2. a (The Greens) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the deputies of PS Maria da Luz Rosinha and Sofia Araújo.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 613 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Renews the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP and PS Maria da Luz Rosinha and Sofia Araújo.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 779 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstentions, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the deputies of PS Maria da Luz Rosinha and Sofia Araújo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u343	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u344	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u345	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that Mrs Sofia Araújo and I will deliver a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u346	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall generally vote on draft Law No 458 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — confers the nature of the executive title on the final decisions of the ACT and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 2082 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Investment in hospital pharmacies of hospitals of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2092 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for effective investment in hospital pharmacies of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We now vote in general on the draft resolution No 2102 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of missing professionals in the hospital pharmaceutical services of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2114 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the development of an investment plan in hospital pharmacies of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, draft resolutions 2082, 2092 and 2102 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) are down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2142 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Contribution to the enhancement of forest production. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2184 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the development of a national programme for the production of certified seed. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2159 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to increase the crop and fruit programme and simplify the procedures with regard to the school system. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and PSD abstentions.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 906 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to ensure compliance with the law with respect to the reduction in the number of hospital infections. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 2131 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government, together with the medical and scientific community, examine the possibility of ensuring that the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and the first prescription of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children are performed by a specialist doctor. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes against the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u347	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u348	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u349	Mr President, it is to correct the meaning of the PS vote, which is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u350	Does the unregistered Member maintain his position of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u351	We are in the Resolution Project No 1400 / XIII / 3. a, isn't it? Mr President, I have a doubt about what we just voted for.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u352	Mr, we are voting on draft resolution No 2131 / XIII / 4. a, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u353	Mr President, with four votes it is a bit complicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u354	Mr, it is the draft resolution on hyperactivity. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u355	I vote in favour, Mr President. By the way, it's important to report that it wasn't on the script delivered yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u356	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repeat the vote, because there have already been a number of zigzags here and it is good for you to be clarified. Let us therefore vote on draft resolution No 2131 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government, together with the medical and scientific community, examine the possibility of ensuring that the diagnosis of Hyperactivity Disorder with Attention Deficit and the first prescription of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children are performed by a specialist physician. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u357	Mr President, it is to inform the House that this project only came in this morning, it was already 11 o'clock in the morning. It's so we all know how we're working.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u358	Mr Adam Silva is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u359	Mr President, you have arrived here and do not want to take much time, really what has happened today with the vote script cannot happen again on the next day 19. The vote script has to be stabilized and cannot be changed at the last hour, generating the greatest confusion and in some way, some inability of the banks to organize themselves in the voting process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u360	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the information that is being given to me is that these matters were still sent on Wednesday before, by the Committees, who had work until late... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving you the information you're giving me. So, please listen to the information I have, which is the one that the Bureau Secretaries, who organized the script, are giving me and that I have a duty to communicate to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. What I'm trying to communicate to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am being informed that these subjects were put in the script by the Commissions on Wednesday, although already after the closing of the plenary. If they were properly put in the script or not, it is another matter, which I think deserves reflection, I certainly think so. That said, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask your understanding to continue with the voting process. The vote on draft resolution No 1400 / XIII / 3 shall follow. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government consider dementia and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority; that it develop a national intervention plan for dementias; that it adopt the measures necessary for adequate support to these patients and their families and that it create and implement the status of the informal caregiver. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Members of the PS Ascension Simões and Helena Roseta were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions by PS Member Ricardo Bexiga and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Steps to the vote on draft resolution No 2046 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — In defence of full national sovereignty in tax policy matters. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u361	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u362	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u363	Mr President, to announce that the CDS will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u364	We now proceed to a comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 635 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Creates the Order of Physiotherapists and 642 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the Physiotherapists Order. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PSD Members Berta Cabral, Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, Maria das Mercês Borges and Paula Teixeira da Cruz, votes against the PS Member Simões and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PS Fernando Rocha Andrade and Filipe Neto Brandão and the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and João Piinho de Almeida.]] Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u365	Mr President, it is only to inform the House that, as a Member and Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, I will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u366	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u367	Mr President, it is to announce a declaration of vote against this diploma. I don't know if my vote against...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u368	Yes, sir. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 666 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Creates the Order of Social Assistants and 789 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the Order of Social Assistants. The PS and the CDS have withdrawn their initiatives in favour of this replacement text. We shall therefore, in general, vote on the replacement text. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PSD Members Berta Cabral, Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, Maria das Mercês Borges and Paula Teixeira da Cruz, votes against PS Member Simões and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PS Fernando Rocha Andrade and Filipe Neto Brandão and the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u369	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u370	Mr Ascenso Simões, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u371	Mr President, to announce my last statement of vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u372	Mr President, following this vote, we are generally planning to take part in the plenary of the indexary votes in the special session of the Commission and in the overall final vote of this text. So I'm asking the ladies. Members who reserve information on the explanations of vote at the end of this voting procedure. We shall therefore vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills No 666 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) and 789 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PSD Members Berta Cabral, Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, Maria das Mercês Borges and Paula Teixeira da Cruz, votes against the PS Member Simões and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PS Fernando Rocha Andrade and Filipe Neto Brandão and the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and João Piinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u373	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u374	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u375	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a written vote on the creation of professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u376	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u377	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will also make a statement of vote on the diplomas of the professional orders that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u378	No more word requests, let's go on. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on page 52 of the vote script. We now turn to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 2155 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) and 2160 / XIII / 4. a ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u379	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u380	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u381	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u382	Mr. Luís Vilhena, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u383	Mr President, I would like to point out that the PS Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u384	Mrs. Helena Roseta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u385	Mr President, I know we are very tired, but Mr President did not say the theme of the final text that we just voted on. Whoever doesn't have the script in front of him doesn't know what he was voting for. Could you please make a statement?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u386	The final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, concerning draft resolutions Nos 2155 / XIII / 4, was approved in a comprehensive final vote. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government declare the state of emergency climate and commit itself to necessary and firm actions to achieve carbon neutrality and 2160 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the declaration of the state of urgency. Mr Nuno Magalhães, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u387	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CDS will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u388	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Can we move forward in the script? [[Pause.]] We then proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft Law No 843 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Housing Bases Act, 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Bases Act and 1057 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Housing Base Law. The PS, the Left Block and the PCP have withdrawn their initiatives in favour of the replacement text, which we will proceed to vote. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the text has been adopted only in general. We shall now proceed to the vote on this replacement text by the plenary. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bills Nos 843 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Housing Bases Act, 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Bases Act and 1057 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Housing Base Law. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Congratulations from the PS, BE, CFP, The Greens and the non-registered Member.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u389	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u390	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u391	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PS Parliamentary Group will make an oral statement. It will be Mrs. Helena Roseta who will. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u392	Be registered. That will be the case at the right time. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u393	Mr. President, that is the same effect. On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, an oral vote will be made at the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u394	Be registered. Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u395	Mr President, we have already signalled the intention to make an oral vote. It will be Mrs Paula Santos who will.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u396	Be registered. Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u397	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u398	Be registered. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u399	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose. I myself shall make the statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u400	All these requests will be organised in order to be implemented after the vote. We turn to the general vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 153 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the legal regime of security and combat racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on this final text by the plenary. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 153 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the legal regime of security and combat racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caregiver and the Drafts of Law No 801 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver and strengthens support measures for dependents ( proceeds to 3 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2006 of 6 June and 13. the amendment to the Labour Code ), 804 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen support for informal caregivers and dependent people, 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of Informational Caregivers and sets out measures to support caretakers and their caregivers ( Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons ), 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Status of the Informal Caregiver and 1135 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, strengthening the measures to support caregivers and dependents. The Government, the Left Block, the CFP and the NAP withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. Therefore, if I understand correctly, this alone did not happen in relation to the initiatives of the PSD and the CDS. [[Pause.]] Mr. Adam Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u401	Mr President, only for the purpose of consisting in Ata, the PSD, in a timely manner, has also withdrawn its initiative within the Commission. It's not from the script, but it's also removed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u402	I don't know why you're not in the vote script. What about the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u403	Mr President, I also have information that we have withdrawn our initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u404	There's a lapse in the information. It's clear. We therefore have the opportunity to proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) and Bills Nos 801 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 804 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) and 1135 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN ), with the Government, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PSD and PAN withdrawing their initiatives in favour of the replacement text [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on this final text by the plenary. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) and Bills Nos 801 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 804 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) and 1135 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP applause.]] Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u405	Mr President, we have already signalled the intention to also make an oral vote on this diploma. It will be Mrs Diana Ferreira who will.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u406	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u407	Mr President, it is for the same purpose and will be presented by Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u408	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u409	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u410	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The Left Block Parliamentary Group also intends to present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u411	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u412	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u413	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u414	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u415	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u416	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u417	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. On this subject, Mrs Helga Correia will present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u418	Be registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the vote script, on pages 57, now refers to Bill No. 1127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements and disciplines the family care regime. Let's vote for it, generally. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and the PSD abstention.]] Voting in the specialty and the overall end is therefore detrimental. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the Freguesia de Castelões and the Union of Freguesias de Ruivães and Novais, of the Municipality of Vila Nova de Famalicão. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Having been approved in general, we can vote for the diploma in the speciality and in the overall final vote, together. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the script of supplementary votes on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes. They inform me that there would be no objection in the specialty to voting on all the amendments tabled in one vote. There is no objection, so it will be done and all the matters in the script for subordination to vote in the specialty will be voted together. We shall vote in particular on the proposals submitted by the PS, the BE, the CFP and the Green Pelos of amendment to Articles 1. o, 2. o, 3. Article 4 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293 / XIII — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes, and the elimination of point (o) and amendment to Article 3 ( q ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ), amending Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). the amendment to Article 11. Article 13 ( 1 ), amending Article 13 ( 1 ). the amending points ( b ), ( j ) and ( l ) of paragraph 1 and the elimination of Article 17 (2) and ( 3 ). Article 28 ( 2 ), amending Article 28 ( 2 ). the addition of Article 37. the ( Entry into force) in the Annex to the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the PSD Member Maria Manuela Tender and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the new Decree, with the amendments that have been made in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the PSD Member Maria Manuela Tender and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u419	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u420	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u421	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u422	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are cases where you are. Members announced their intention to produce oral explanations of vote. The first case is related to Resolution Projects Nos 2228 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) and 2133 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), on the port of Leixões. To that end, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u423	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS voted in favour of the projects of the Block of Left and PAN, which recommend the suspension of the public procurement process that has to do with the construction of the seabreak and the works in the port of Leixões. I would like to make it clear that, for the CDS, the port of Leixões has a strategic importance not only for the city as for the whole district of Porto and for the entire northern region. The port of Leixões, in order to continue to maintain this strategic importance, cannot remain as it is, must have works and an increase in capacity that enables it is not to increase its influence but to maintain that which it has today. This said, for the CDS, first you study, you think and then you open contests. And stressing the work that has been done by the municipalities and by the working group, it is important to say that, at the moment, there is still a lack of knowledge about the design of the new terminal, namely the spatial distribution of its uses, there is a lack of knowledge about the total impact of the three planned works — the seabreak, the deepening and the new terminal — and there is also a lack of knowledge about alternatives with less impact, particularly in the coastal area and the beaches. Therefore, from our point of view, all alternatives must first be studied to understand how we can maintain the influence of the port of Legions, doing the necessary works, but at the same time allow the enjoyment and enjoyment of the coastal area and the beaches of Porto and Matosinhos. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u424	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now passing on to the explanations of vote on the replacement text tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the Housing Bases Act. For a first vote, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important day and we believe that it is because it was possible to pass the first Housing Base Law in our country, which aims to achieve the right to housing. It was possible to build by listening to many entities, residents and their associations, listening to the experts, and it was possible to find solutions, with the decisive contribution of the PCP, so that today we could approve this Housing Bases Act in order to respond to the problems that exist, because there are immense families that have difficulties in access to housing. It was possible to ensure the State's primacy in guaranteeing the right to housing, ensuring the necessary budgetary allocations and assuming a decisive role in the provision of housing to meet housing needs, prioritising the mobilization of public housing assets for rent, under supported or conditioned income; the social function of housing; encouraging the use of returned private-owned dwellings to respond to needs; protection and follow-up on landfills, referring that there can be no clearance without previously guaranteeing resettlement solutions; failure to execute penhora on housing for the satisfaction of tax or contribution credits, leaving the open door because it does not go as far as we intended, for the future, in the possibility of fulfillment. Within the framework of urban rehabilitation, the conditions of energy efficiency, seismic vulnerability and accessibility should be observed, the value and support of cooperatives, self-construction projects, the appreciation of the participation of residents and their associations. We could have gone further, it is true, we have put forward proposals in this direction, but today we are taking a very significant step in this right and we will continue here, to fight and to intervene so that the State is still strengthened in all the instruments so that we can move forward and not go back. We will be here to demand compliance with the law, so that there is, in fact, change and that the State assumes its responsibilities in the realization of the constitutional right to housing and in the provision of housing at costs compatible with the real income of workers and families. That was the commitment the CFP made. We have fought for it here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we will continue to intervene and fight and the populations and residents know that they can continue to count on the CFP so that the right to housing is, in fact, a reality for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u426	Also to give an oral vote, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, citizens who accompany us: We have just seen a historic vote. For the first time in Portugal we will have a Housing Base Law. Thus the conditions are created for the right to housing, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, to be a reality for all people living in Portugal. After the initiatives of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, we made dozens of hearings and visits, we received numerous contributions from civil society and individual citizens. We were all able to improve the initial proposals. We have made 304 votes on the joint; 178 proposals have been approved, of which 26 %, some nuclear were approved unanimously. The law that we passed today is no longer the heritage of any party, it is a law that realizes, in Portugal, a fundamental pillar of the social rule of law. The Housing Basics Act will not give anyone home, but it represents a huge step forward in the right to housing for all, with concrete mechanisms and instruments to defend and promote that right. This law is also a bill of charges for the future. It will require the review and compatibility of avulva legislation so that the principles contained therein are fulfilled. from here on forward, our country can no longer have a national housing policy, which will have to be approved by Parliament, as well as annual reports on its compliance. We know that many of these measures will not be done one day at a time, but the responsibilities are defined in the law and everyone will know who demands them. The law gives priority to urgent situations, since there is no response to many still existing housing deficiencies, to the need to intervene with people in a sheltered situation, with communities living in areas of illegal genesis, in informal neighborhoods or with our villages within the country. The territories are unequal, but the right to decent housing is for everyone. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to have taken this initiative and in a participatory, transparent and comprehensive manner as this legislative process has taken place. Mrs. Members, Members of Parliament, citizens: All those who do not have access to housing are entitled to benefit, in the shortest term, from the principles, instruments and measures we have just approved for our country. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE Jorge Costa and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u428	I think this is a special moment for Mrs. Helena Roseta, and only by personal humility is that she did not refer to the meaning this moment has for her. Madam Member, I wish you the greatest happiness for the continuation of your civic activity. [[P.S., Mr. BE Jorge Costa and Mr. Trigo Pereira, on his feet.]] Also for a vote on the same vote, I now give the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to housing is a constitutional right and a pillar of the social state, it is now framed by a law that defines the basic concepts and the initiatives we will have in this House on urban rehabilitation, soil policy, fiscal policy or even tax benefits, they will be conditioned to the general interest and will become subordinate to the right to housing. Basic and obvious things, such as the social function of housing or the idea that a house should be inhabited, cease to be common sense and have force of law, and any government will be subject to this idea and a set of instruments that will make public housing policy a reality and not just a cluster of financial instruments. We also guarantee the registration of housing protection, permanent housing and fulfillment of donation, a subject on which the Socialist Party has drawn closer to our position. We have also managed to ensure that the borrowers will not be penalized, and the renegotiating of contracts does not take place. We are talking about an essential response to dramatic situations of household loss and unmanageable debts, which resulted from the lack of risk sharing by banks. We have gone far and defined forms of intervention and a body, or an entity, which will have the responsibility to implement housing policies, and which will not be few. He failed to give it the right name: National Housing Service. But we'll be there. It is true that we could have gone further in the concrete definition of speculative activities that are contrary to the right to housing, limiting these instruments more explicitly. But we now have legislation that legally confirms, and being rigorous, that these are instruments that act contrary to the right to housing. We have here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a good Law of Bases, historic and left. But this is not the end of a process, it is merely the beginning, and what is to be known — to be defined in the future — is the concrete answer that will be given to each of the formulations found for this law. The Block's proposals are clear and can be conformed to this Basic Law. It is necessary to understand whether this law brings political determination to the Socialist Party to respond to the housing crisis. If there is determination and there is no retreat, the Left Block here will be for the necessary work. They can count on us. I want to finish by valuing Mrs Helena Roseta's work in this whole process. It will not actually give a home to anyone, but it will ensure that we will reach a future where no one will be without home, and that is a great victory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u430	They draw my attention to the fact that there have been some demonstrations, particularly applause at certain times in the galleries. Such demonstrations are not allowed, and I therefore ask for the understanding of the citizens who are in the galleries for the duty of admonition that assistance to our work involves. You then have the floor for a vote on the same subject, Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u431	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 70 % of Portuguese are owners of their housing. The offer of real estate to rent is very low, especially in large urban centres, and only 2 % of the housing in the country is public, far below what is generally seen in European countries, such as France, where 17 % of housing is public, or in the United Kingdom, where it reaches 18 %. Over the decades, governments have supported and developed policies that bet on new construction and easy access to credit for housing acquisition. The former government began a reversal of this trend, promoting rehabilitation and a lease bet, with the growth of supply. The current government, supported by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, in four years, did nothing to solve the housing crisis in Portugal, since it is clear to all that problems have only been accentuated without any proposal being seen that effectively solves the housing problem for many Portuguese people. The principles are very important—of course, we do not deny it—but the principles and the guarantee of housing are well shaped in our legal order, from the Constitution to a number of laws in force. What the Portuguese need is answers, urgent answers to what we know is happening in Portugal, which is a real crisis in housing, with its denied access to numerous Portuguese families and families. The government and the parties that support it do nothing more unless they introduce instability in the legislation and the lease market, they do nothing more than successive announcements of programmes that replace other programmes, but of implementation in four years we have zero or almost zero. We look at the State budget and see no reinforcement of funds for public housing policies — that should, yes, be the priority of the government and of the parties that have already voted four State budgets without this bet being reflected there. The Housing Bases Act, which we have just voted on today, will not solve any housing problem in Portugal. It may be a good electoral propaganda but it does not touch the main problem,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u432	...that is the very small public offer of housing, and as long as that happens we will continue to see a vast public heritage unused, degraded or being sold to those who pay most for it. The Government only now, at the end of the legislature, announced the inclusion of 29 state buildings in the fund for future rehabilitation and lease by the middle class. The CDS presented several proposals for the use of public heritage for housing, but for four years they were all plunged by PCP, PS and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u433	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u434	It was four years lost, four years in which we only saw the problem of housing in Portugal worsen. We are, as we have always been, available to be part of the solution to the problem, but we will not be part of an empty campaign without solutions, which only aims at electoral gains. That's what just happened. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u435	You have the floor for an oral vote by Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u436	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD participated actively in the debate of this Housing Base Act, presenting 10 key ideas and more than 40 amendments, the overwhelming majority of which did not receive. We respect these and all the other votes, but we disagree with the final outcome. A Basic Law should not enhance interpretative dissensions. This does not happen to this proposal which, at various times, legislation on what is already legislated. A Basics Act must be a framework document of future legislation, not past legislation. This is not the case with this proposal, whose aim is clearly to cover the many legislative measures taken over the past four years, which have generated uncertainty and distrust in the sector and that there are examples of the protection of income freezes, the guaranteed renewal of contracts, the prohibition of evictions, changes to the exercise of the right of preference, the transfer to owners of the price to be paid by the figure of « shops with history »,... [[PCP protests.]] ... the attack on local housing or changes to the rental scheme supported, which led to the loss of authority of public services and an increase in permissiveness with illegal occupations. A Basics Act must be a defining document and a computer for itself to originate a public housing policy. So it does not happen with this proposal, whose generic character of many of its precepts, where everything and its opposite, results, therefore, in a law that offers no certainty, does not offer confidence, does not offer security, prolonging the results collected in the last four years: much less houses to rent and increasingly expensive incomes. Because of the markedly ideological options of PS, BE and PCP, which Mrs Maria Manuel Rola wanted to be well bound in her intervention, the lease market is dying and we know well who is most suffering from this circumstance: they suffer from young couples, they suffer from young couples and they suffer from families with greater economic fragility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u437	We move on to another round of explanations of vote on the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are various difficulties experienced daily by informal caregivers and by caring people, and it is necessary to respond to physical and psychological overload, exhaustion and even depression that are experienced in many situations. It was to respond to this reality and arguing that the State cannot rule out its responsibilities that the CFP presented its draft law, defending policies that promote a strategy for the development and consolidation of public services response, and a set of proposals that aimed to promote the reconciliation of care delivery with work activity. It was also to respond to this reality that the CFP presented in State Budget a proposal, which is also reflected in this diploma, for the implementation of pilot projects, in order to implement a public support network aimed at informal caregivers, developed on the basis of public services, ensuring home support and counseling, follow-up and training of informal caregivers, psychosocial support, in addition to an integrated support network throughout the territory. It was also to respond to this reality that the CFP was committed to the construction of this diploma that we have approved today and that results from a hard work done in the specialty. Although it has not gone as far as we defend and propose, whether it concerns the public network of support to informal caregivers or the strengthening of the labour and social protection of informal caregivers, this diploma represents important advances in the face of current reality. The PCP intervention also ensured the continuity of care or the existence of a unit of support to the caregiver, ensuring linkages and reference points for the informal caregiver. However, we cannot fail to note our concern at some of the measures adopted, which also result from the possible consensus, in particular, with regard to the scope and application of them or any overlap and annulment of social benefits, considering the condition of resources. They had been considered and approved of the CFP proposals and it would have been possible to overcome these problems. However, at the moment it is important to value the step that has been taken, it is important to value what has been approved and to ensure that what has been approved is a reality in the lives of informal caregivers and caregivers, in the duration of pilot projects but also after them. The CFP will continue to monitor the reality of informal caregivers and caretakers, the fulfilment of their rights and the realization of what we have adopted today in this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u439	You also have the floor for a statement of vote on the same subject, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is surely a historic day, also for the approval of this Statute of the Informal Caregiver. If we look at the last four years, we see that this is a measure that has crossed the entire legislature. At the beginning of the Legislature, the CDS was the first party to schedule this matter here in the Assembly of the Republic, and to request an approval that we understood should be given by the government. The fact is that we realized that the government was slow to present a satisfactory proposal at this level and that led to the fact that we had to do a really comprehensive parliamentary work and, after hearing many entities, many people, a deal was reached. For us, CDS, this is clearly a matter of priority and the diploma that has been approved here is not yet the desirable diploma. We understand that we have a better proposal for this situation, but the truth is that, as in many situations, we must be content with the possible consensus. We now know the following: we have approved a diploma, but that diploma lacks development and regulation. On a proposal by the majority that this Government supports, the regulation has passed from 60 to 120 days, i.e. in practice the regulation of this matter has been referred to the next government. In the view of the CDS it is very clear that if Parliament has done its work now, which is in line with the rules, the Government must take on what it has to do and - it seems clear - that a government which has not been quick, on the contrary, to implement this measure will certainly not be quick, nor satisfactory, enough, to approach the regulation of this matter. That is why, of course, we look forward to a change that may occur in the government and can also bring improvements to informal caregivers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u441	You have the floor, too, for a vote on the same subject, Mr José Moura Soeiro of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u442	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of decades of invisibility and at the end of three years of intense struggle by caregivers and informal caregivers, we will finally have a status for caregivers and caregivers. On behalf of the Left Block, I would like to congratulate everyone and all those who have stopped this struggle, the various groups of caregivers of people with dementia, children with disabilities, dependent elderly, all, and also greet the National Association of Informatic Caregivers, which was formed throughout this struggle process. I would like, on behalf of the Block on the Left, to congratulate them, to congratulate all those who have signed the petition that has prompted this debate, to whom the parties, to whom they have heard of involving the city halls, to whom the President of the Republic has committed and to whom he has done so knowing that the Statute would probably no longer benefit himself, doing so for whom he is coming, for whom he is in this situation now and in the future. This victory today also gives us more strength to fight for what was to be done. But I wanted to point out what we earned in this process. We have won to call this diploma 'Informal Care Status'. There may be a lot left to complete it, but we have a framework for now and we have a legal structure to register more rights in the future. We have won the definition of rights and duties, even if we have to wait for their realization. We have won the extension of the rest to the caregiver, also in the form of home support, which was not planned and which, in fact, the Government did not want it to be consecrated. We have won by defining a new social support, which will have to be designed in its details 120 days after the approval of the law by the government and also through pilot projects. We won the protection of the contributing career from here to the front through voluntary social insurance, even though it remains to recognize the contributing career behind. That is why this victory which, today, caregivers and caregivers have — and it is a victory that is concerned — gives us, in fact, more strength for what remains to be done. In other words, in order to be able in the future to open the universe covered by the measures of support for all those who need it; to recognize caregivers for the care they have also provided in the past; to adapt the labour law to the care and reality of caregivers, who do not have to be forced to leave their jobs in order to be able to accompany the dependent people they are caring for. I think we did a lot together, we did a lot together with the caregivers. Today, it's time to celebrate. And tomorrow we will certainly continue to fight for more dignity, for more respect and for the realization of these rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u443	Mr Luís Soares, Member of the PS, has the floor to give an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in addition to being a historic day, is, above all, a happy day. A happy day for people who need care and a happy day for caregivers who provide care. But it is, above all, a happy day for politics and a happy day for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u445	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u446	It is a happy day for politics and for Portugal because today, in this House, we can take a decisive step to recognize an act of altruism, an act of love from one person to another, of those who care for the person who needs care. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Today, we have established more support for caregivers, we have established a status. And, of course, I could not fail to say a word about the one who was a long process, but an important process of building the day we are living here today. We heard caregivers, heard associations, heard the health sector and the social security sector, but heard mothers, parents, husbands, wives, brothers, people who, by chance, give their lives, interrupt their lives to take care of other people. We know that the path we have made is still an insufficient path, but we need to value what we have achieved today: a support allowance, social protection in old age, training and training of caregivers, rest support.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u447	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u448	This is a work of everyone, this is a joint work. A work of the Government, which gives rise to this diploma, but also a work of all parties. I stress the role of the coordinator of the working group, who has done everything to ensure that there is unanimity in this House. But it is also good to say that we did not start today and that we made progress more and more with the governments of the Socialist Party. We advanced when we established labour protection, we advanced when we built the social network, we advanced with a dependency allowance, with a third person assistance allowance, we always advanced with the governments of the Socialist Party. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's commitment, anchored in this majority of the Left Bloc, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party, honours, above all, the electoral commitment assumed by the Socialist Party with the Portuguese, with the caregivers, with the caretakers. Today is a happy day, because we have a Statute and we have more support measures for caregivers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u449	Mrs Helga Correia has the floor to give an oral vote on the Statute of the Informal Caregiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Approved as the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, it is important to say that the Social Democratic Party today has the same sense of responsibility with which the whole discussion has begun. We have always been available to build an effective solution for the universe of all informal caregivers. I would like to praise this Parliament, which has been able to build consensus on an innovative subject, essential in an area still unknown.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u451	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u452	I would also like to stress publicly the role of the coordinator of the working group, which has made possible the consensus necessary for this matter to be adopted today. This is a first step in many other steps which this Parliament must be able to take in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot ignore that Portugal faces a double population ageing that walks side by side with the situations of physical weaknesses, dependencies and dementias. Having concluded the debate and the vote on the initiatives, we are certain that, as we have proposed throughout the discussion, we have always been available to be part of the solution, in order to obtain consensus in the construction of an effective legislative solution that took into account the recognition of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, defining the rights and duties of the caretaker and the caregiver. For the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, the people and the interests of the people were always above all and any interest or political-party agenda. of the next Government, we hope that it will regulate the Statute of the Informal Caregiver within the specified time limit. And I say about the next government, because today's law has to be regulated by the government that comes out of the next elections. Today, in the House of Democracy, there is history in recognizing the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. An innovative path begins that, in all its dimensions, appears necessary and fair and that, in great measure, can give dignity and value to those who voluntarily, benevolent and with love. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u453	Mrs. Members, this period of oral explanations of vote is concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u454	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u455	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u456	Mr President, to give the information to the House and to be recorded until the Left Block has already entered a written declaration of vote on the Bill No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of the "Chons of Improvements ", whose vote we made recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-05.u457	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the Members of the Bureau for the development of this heavy script of votes that took place, but in particular the services of support to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, which presented us with a job without failure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be announced that the next plenary session will take place on 10 July, Wednesday, at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes, having as the only item on the agenda the debate on the state of the nation. There is nothing else to deal with, and wishing for a very good weekend to all, I declare the plenary session closed. [[It was 14 hours and 41 minutes.]]
