ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Officials and Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the Proposals of Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying Portuguese flag and crossing high-risk areas of piracy, which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 7. the Commission, and 176 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Labour Procedure Code by adapting it to the Civil Procedure Code, which falls to 10. the Commission. The Drafts of Law Nos 1075 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Table. a ( CDS-PP ) — End of one year to dismantle vehicles in certified centres, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1076 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 58 / 2004 of 19 March, ensuring the effective accessibility of persons with reduced capacity to heavy passenger vehicles, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1077 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires'disease, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 1078 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No 123 / 2009 of 21 May, introducing the model of certification entities, 1079 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Alter the Law No 14 / 2015 of 16 February promoting access to the activity of the Inspectorate of Private Service Electrical Facilities, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1080 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for public control of TTCs, which falls to 6. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1945 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to reduce the inequality in the energy distribution network which falls to 6. the Commission, 1946 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates on January 31 as National Sergeant Day, which goes down to 3. the Commission, and 1947 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Extinction of the tourist activity of the Estrela greenhouse by default, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first item on the agenda of today's sitting is the joint debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases and Drafts Act No. 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act, 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act and 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act. First of all, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I take advantage of to greet, as do the other members of the Government present at the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a new basic health law presented by the Government today has four fundamental axes which I would like to highlight. First of all, it asserts itself as a basic law for the 21st century. It is a law that reflects international trends in health policies, raises a response to demographic and epidemiological changes and the need for new care models, stimulating the potentialities of information and communication technologies as instruments of delivery. Secondly, it is stated as a new basic law that focuses on people's health policy. The proposal reflects more informed and demanding citizens and updates their catalogue of rights and duties, explicitly stating that one of the objectives of the health system is to protect people from the financial risks of the disease, that applicants for international protection and migrants are beneficiaries of the National Health Service and that participation of people in the definition, monitoring and evaluation of health policies is essential. Thirdly, this proposal is affirmed as a basic law that strengthens the role of the State and clarifys relations with the private and social sectors. Indeed, it reiterates the constitutional principle that the right to health protection constitutes a responsibility of the State, through the SNS, establishes that the public, private and social sectors articulate in accordance with the principle of cooperation and conditions the hiring of third parties to the assessment of their need. Finally, it is stated as a law of bases that strengthens and modernizes the National Health Service. The proposal expresses a preference for the public management of the institutions of the SNS ( National Health Service ), based on models of internal organization that favour autonomy and responsibility, whose investment is based on a multiannual plan and whose health professionals constitute a structured workforce in careers, in a progressive evolution for the creation of mechanisms of full dedication to the exercise of public functions. Mr. President and Mr. Members, perhaps, there were those who had doubts about the effective need for a new basic law and there is no one who considers that the new diploma will solve all health problems in Portugal. So why a new basic law? Because, as António Arnaut wrote, in the book Save the SNS « Law No. 48 / 90 aimed essentially at the constitutional decharacterization of the SNS and reduced it to the objective of a public service of a charitable nature for the poorest”. Now, by the time the SNS is about to complete 40 years and has already given so many proofs of being part of our identity as a country, it is important to correct that decharacterization and that reductionism. I have no doubt that this House is familiar with the text of the Health Bases Act currently in force. But will the Portuguese know, at home, that in it it it is written that it is supported the development of the private health sector in competition with the public sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u6	And that the human resources policy for health aims to facilitate the mobility of professionals between the public and the private sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u7	You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u8	What do you mean, after all? Change everything, so everything stays as it is, how do some seem to pretend? Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clear on what we want. We want what we have always said throughout our history: a health system centred on the SNS, funded by taxes, with preferentially public performance—I insist, preferably public— because we recognize the complexity and diversity of the world surrounding us and the limits of our transforming power of reality. Which does not prevent us from saying which way we want to go. But we are also clear in what we do not want: we do not want the separation of the functions of funding and provider to be the alibi to privatize, we do not want to be sanctuated by the professionals we train, we do not want to grant due to the simple difficulty in reforming. Freedom of initiative and competition have a role in the health sector — we know and respect it — but do not ask us to align ourselves with the fallacy that the health market is like any other, which has no faults that it is important to correct, in the name of the general interest, being the Health Bases Act one of the mechanisms to do so. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in Portugal we have gone a long way. Five years after the Revolution, in September 1979, the National Health Service was created, but even before, the Second Constitutional Government had already decided to open the posts of Providence and hospitals to the entire population, a fundamental gesture on the path of universal coverage. From 1979 onwards, the SNS was consolidating and gained the sympathy of the Portuguese. The remarkable health gains that have been achieved in recent decades are well known and their reasons are also well known: improving people's income and their living conditions, democracy, and the existence of the SNS. But what is evident today has not always been so. It's important not to forget the story. Not to rake in wounds or to pick gold, but to avoid mistakes. With the opposition of the PSD, the CDS and independent Social Democrats, who then declared lamenting this childhood disease of our democracy, were the votes of the PS and the PCP that allowed the SNS Law to be approved in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the opposition of the PS and the PCP, it was the PSD and the CDS that in 1990 approved a law of bases that the then Minister of Health, Dr. Arlindo de Carvalho, presented, referring to having the specific intention of « revoking this true by-product of enlightened romanticism, which is the Law of Dr. Arnaut, as mentioned to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u10	I'm right, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this House will now know how to stand on the right side of history! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u11	Mr Minister, five Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u12	Mr President, I will answer the five together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u13	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u14	Mr President, Minister, what is at stake in this debate on the Health Bases Act is whether it is progressing on a path to strengthening the National Health Service or whether it is deepening the way in which large private groups in the field of health are favoured. The fundamental question is whether the option passes through the defence of the universal, general, free character for all of the National Health Service, providing it with means that respond to the needs of quality health care to which users are entitled or whether the option passes through the progressive transfer of care provision to private groups, making health a highly lucrative business. To ensure the constitutional right to health, it is not indifferent who provides health care. And the great difference lies in the fact that the National Health Service treats all equally and has as its objective health. For private groups, contrary to public service, what matters is not health, the disease and priority are not health care, but, yes, the maximization of profit. Therefore, Minister, it is important that this debate be clarified what the Government is in favour of. At the end of her speech, she said who is on the right side. Therefore, I ask you whether the government will be on the right side, defending and strengthening the National Health Service and public management, thus giving concreteness to the constitutional right to health or whether you want to maintain and increase PPPs (public-private partnerships), transferring services and care to private groups, who look to health only as more business opportunity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u15	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u16	Mr President, Minister, there is no doubt that a new law of health bases is needed, which, unlike the current one, strengthens the SNS, ensure that its resources are effectively applied within the National Health Service, sets professionals in the National Health Service and protects the right to health. A new basic law is made with the separation between the public sector and the private sector and is also made clearly in the proposal. And it is about clarity that I would like to question you, Minister. The Minister has already said publicly that she favours public management. however, the Government's proposal has an open fringe for public-private partnerships so that they can continue and that there may be more. We have heard leaders of the Socialist Party say—as Manuel Pizarro, three days ago—that public-private partnerships should even be expanded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u18	We have seen the government prepare for the renewal of public-private partnerships in Cascais and Braga, and therefore clarification is needed. Will you favour public management or keep everything as it is? The Minister says that it is necessary to clarify the relationship between the public and the private. We therefore believe that it must be very clearly in any proposal which is presented and approved that the private and the social sector is merely complementary to the public. It is not a cooperation relationship, it is a complementarity relationship. Mrs. Minister has already said that moderate rates do not serve to finance the SNS, which are not a co-payment, but the truth is that, as there are currently, they are a co-financing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u20	That is why it is clear that we are required and that we want to have this debate. Mr. Minister, the government has a proposal. The proposal which the Government has, in these essential respects, is dubious. Is the Government prepared to negotiate the proposal, to amend the proposal? If so, know that, on the side of the Left Block, we will not miss the call of the National Health Service and, for us, the National Health Service will have a long future and will be much better than it has been in the last 28 years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u21	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u22	Mr President, Mrs Minister, you took over exactly 100 days ago. And, in these 100 days, we had: a strike of nurses, with thousands of delayed surgeries; resignations in the direction of services of several hospitals, due to lack of clinical safety; continued care at risk; hospital pharmacy to be closed; access to consultations and impaired treatments, with significant increases in waiting times. And I could go on... But today, on the 100th day, the Minister comes to Parliament to present her basic health law. And your basic law deserves three great criticisms. The first is about timing. The Minister leaves her mark on the health folder, not because of the pragmatism of the solution to the problems I have raised, but because of a proposal for a basic law that links nothing to it and nothing to solve. The second criticism is about the process. Mrs.Minister throws out the widely divided proposal of her predecessor and presents another, which does not pick on the right, but also does not like on the left, and which even leaves her isolated from much of her own party, the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u23	The third criticism is about the substance, because the Minister proposes a law that is omise and statisticizing, a backwardness of decades, rather than giving answers to the future, a law that does not seem to have the strength to be taken to vote. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u24	She told the Minister that « she does not discuss with SNS predators, but only with those who defend him ». I ask you therefore, Minister : what is it for you to defend the SNS? Will public investment be implemented by 58 % in 2017 and 40 % in 2018? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u25	Or will debt increase by 52 % compared to 2014, that is to say more than EUR 2000 million? Or will it be, in the words of Prof. Correia de Campos, even yesterday in Parliament, late payments in EPE hospitals of EUR 837 million, value exceeded only in 2011? Or will State transfers to SNS be reduced by 6 % compared to the troika years? It is that if you defend the SNS is this, Mrs. Minister, if you are, as Mr. Secretary of State said today in an article in the Public, having "the painful chest of so much beating with your hand in love with the SNS", then maintain your insistence on ideological discourse to distract us from reality. But know it doesn't count on us, because, yes, Minister, the CDS is on the right side, it's on the people's side, it's on the patient's side. And we are not concerned about the best configuration of the system, as long as it best responds to the needs of citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u26	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u27	Mr President, Minister, this debate demonstrates the need for a new basic law. If this debate was not enough, it would be enough to revisit some of the provisions that are in force and that the Minister, very in good time, did the right thing to remember. All parliamentary groups have initiatives and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — they are disappointed, ladies and gentlemen. Members—referred to the Government's proposal for a law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Yes, Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa, it's not worth seeing ghosts where they don't exist. The draft law of the Government is ideologically coherent, defends the strengthening of the role of the State as a reducing of inequalities, defends public services. Yes, Mrs. Minister, that's what we're talking about, and that's what we agree on. According to the best humanist and solidarity tradition of Portuguese people, it is important to preserve the right to health and not allow it to become a privilege of only a few.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u29	The Government's bill clarifys, among other things, relations between sectors, reiterates the responsibility of the State as a promoter and guarantor of the right to health, to the protection of health, through the National Health Service. The Government's proposed law defines, inter alia, relations between public, private and social sectors, which are governed by cooperation, transparency and the prevention of conflicts of interest. Finally, the Government's bill assumes that the hiring of third-party entities by the National Health Service is conditional on the assessment of needs. And it is this criterion that we find fair and strict and that does not deserve the criticisms we have heard. Since the Minister is aware of Parliament's legitimacy in improving the bill, making the SNS stronger in guaranteeing the health and life of our citizens, without discrimination on socio-economic conditions, what are the red lines, let's say, that the Government believes should never be overcome? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u30	To ask for clarifications, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u31	Mr President, Minister of Health : 'Too vague','minimist', which opens the door 'to everything and to its contrary' — it is in this way that Dr. Maria de Belém Roseira qualifies the proposed basic health law that the Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Dr. Maria de Belém was Minister of Health and President of the Socialist Party. But, most relevant for this debate, Dr. Maria de Belém was responsible for the work produced by a commission appointed by this Government to review the current Health Bases Act. And what did this government do? He threw away all the work of this group of citizens. And for what? To present us, alternatively, a bill that does not contain a clear thought nor a systematized political line for the Portuguese health system. In fact, with this proposal for a law, the Government chose to ignore the realities and challenges facing the Portuguese health system today, whether the phenomena of low birth and demographic ageing, whether the increase in the incidence of chronic diseases, the demands of the role of informal caregivers and the sustainability of the National Health Service itself. Mr Minister of Health, the Government presents us with a proposal for a law based on a central misconception and capital: while trying to please the extreme-left statisticizing, it has finally recognized the inevitability and potential advantages of cooperation between the public sector and the private and social sectors. Deep down, the government tried to please God and the Devil. And that is how he committed the original sin. at the same time as presenting a proposal that recognizes the role of cooperation between sectors, the Government subordinates the same cooperation to a blind criterion of necessity, regardless of the advantages that could bring to the users of the National Health Service. at the same time as your proposal admits that the management of SNS units can be made by private entities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u32	When it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u33	... defend that this collaboration can only be temporary, whatever it means, because, in reality, no one understands. In short, the Government presents us with a proposal for a law on the basis of poor, misleading and contradictory health. In view of the spiral of negative assessments made to the Government's proposal, it is not surprising that Mr. Prime Minister has tried to save his face with his usual ability to say that « the current majority has all the conditions to be able to pass a basic health law ». from that question, Minister : will the Government of the Socialist Party lean to the extreme left and defend that all health management should be exclusively public?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u34	We got him a box!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u35	Will the Government of the Socialist Party lean to the extreme left and agree to the total abolition of moderate rates in the National Health Service? Mrs. Minister, this is a moment that will define your mandate. Will the government choose the path of consensus, to the centre, with pluralist parties, such as the PSD, seeking to consensualize an inclusive, flexible and modern law of bases? Or will the Minister maintain the country and the Portuguese hostages of the ideological ties of the Communist parties that support the government? [[PS and PCP protests.]] Let us be clear: ideology does not give health and, as you know, does not cure any disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u36	But it's necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u37	So the Minister has to answer: what is the government's priority? Is it ideology, or are it people? [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u38	To respond to requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of this law is, as I could only be, an option for the citizen—he just doesn't see who doesn't want to see. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are the public services that best defend the citizen. And in this law it is clear the strengthening of the role of the State in the provision and regulation, Mrs Paula Santos. That is our faith, that is what we defend with this law. On the other hand, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to say that what we see here is complementarity, is the articulation of which the Constitution speaks. And it is about this complementarity and in that sense that you baptize us. It is in this logic that we are willing to improve our proposal and work together, because we are sure that this House still has a long improvement work to do, because that is the law of life. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, this is the Government's proposal. As for debt, it remained in 2018 at 50 % of the previous year—and let's talk about it briefly—that is, less than EUR 500 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, what we are defending is in fact strengthening public services. But we do not object; we recognize and we know that the private sector and the social sector are there. We accept them, we live with these sectors, we need to work with them, but with total transparency. Finally, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the need is not a blind criterion, but this is a sector worth 10 % of GDP and involves many businesses. And it's business we're not willing to compromise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u40	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The constitutional right to health, the conquest of the April Revolution, has been averted from fundamental instruments to achieve it for decades. The weakening of the National Health Service has resulted in reduced funding, proximity services and professionals in adequate numbers to provide quality, safety and timely health care. This weakening results from the political options of successive right-wing governments, with the aim of reducing public response and favouring the private sector, especially the large monopolistic groups operating in the health sector. The constitutional right to health is weakened in its amplitude by the payment of moderate rates and by the end of the gratuity in the provision of health care. Today, families bear around 28 % of the costs of health. The policy options of successive right-wing governments and the Health Bases Act of 1990 contributed to the chronic underfinancing of the SNS, led to the abandonment of the shared, democratic management model,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u42	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u43	... opting for the generalization of appointment, encouraged non-investment in equipment and technologies, the progressive degradation of salaries, careers and working conditions of health professionals, as well as the promiscuity between the public and private sectors and the transfer of SNS care to the large economic groups. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a basic law on health policy that we are discussing today guarantees the right to health and assigns the responsibility for its implementation to the State, through the SNS. We review the founding principles of the SNS, its universal, general and free character, realized by the allocation of funds through the State budget, essential to the operation, modernization and improvement of facilities and equipment, the hiring and valuation of professionals. We propose public management, decentralized and involved, granting administrative and financial autonomy to the entities and institutions that make up it. The proposed management model is based on the existence of collegial bodies, whose members are selected by public contest, in the election, by their peers, the clinical, nursing directors and the representatives of other health professionals. in the proposal of the CFP there is no place for public-private partnerships, for business public entities; therefore, it is proposed to end it. This initiative clearly assumes the separation between the public, private and social sectors and assigns to the private and social sectors an additional character, stating only that it is the responsibility of the State to regulate them and to monitor the activities provided by them, in accordance with the public interest. It is also assumed that for the SNS to function, it is necessary to have central, regional and local bodies, highlighting among these local health systems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the constitutional right to health requires the government to define health policy, finance it, lend it and regulate it. Health policy has national scope, being health at the heart of all policies, allowing intervention on the social determinants of health and disease production. Health policy is based on the planning of human, material, technological and financial resources to meet the identified needs and acquisitions of scientific and technological progress. The constitutional right to health requires clear options on human resources policy, a policy based on the correct dimensioning of workers' allocations and their distribution through the national territory, to meet the needs of the population. Human resources policy must also ensure decent working conditions, the integration of all professionals in careers, with adequate remuneration, in order to encourage and value the full-time work regime and the exclusive dedication to the SNS. The proposed core law of the PCP also addresses specific issues such as mental health, medical genetics, occupational health and medicine policy and medical devices, vulnerable and risk groups and public health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the other initiatives, we want to say the following: the proposals of the PSD and the CDS deepen the path of weakening the SNS, of promiscuity between the public and private sectors, attack the rights of users and professionals and pervert the constitutional right to health. On the proposal of the Government, we recognize that it has evolved positively in response to the proposal of the committee chaired by Maria de Belém, which has some aspects that are identified with ours, but are still insufficient in view of the need to find a majority that allows a progressive revision of the law. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the central question raised in this debate is whether the current state of promiscuity between the public and private sectors, as proposed by the PSD and the CDS, or whether this opportunity is taken to break with the current situation and ensure a health policy focused on people, their well-being throughout the entire life course, in strengthening the National Health Service, in valorizing their professionals and breaking with the right policy for health and for the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u44	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health : The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party presented its draft review of the Health Bases Act. The current law, still in force, passed when a social-democrat majority, remained practically immutable for almost 30 years, an impressive longevity. in this long period of time, it is recognized that Portuguese health indicators have significantly improved, since the increase in average life expectancy, the reduction of deaths in the generality of preventable diseases — be it tuberculosis, HIV or diabetes —, and also a sharp reduction in infant mortality in recent decades, despite the most recent oscillations that lack full clarity. But despite the most recent worrying signs of degradation of the National Health Service, it is undeniable the qualitative evolution of health care in our country and the social development recorded among us over the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u46	That's where we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u47	Portugal was able to present positive results whenever its political agents knew how to compete for a common purpose. Thus, over the past 40 years, successive governments have erected the National Health Service and have known to extend it throughout the national territory. The high quality and dedication of thousands of professionals who have worked, and work, in the health system have contributed, as no one, to the protection and improvement of the general state of health of Portuguese. Today, Portugal has more health care institutions, including in the social and private sectors, which guarantee Portuguese levels of access and never before existing health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u48	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u49	But if all this is true, we cannot ignore the new challenges facing the country. Among these realities, the marked ageing of the Portuguese population, as well as the strong reduction in the birth rate, factors that decisively condition the sustainability of social and health protection systems, as well as the increasing weight of chronic diseases, associated with multi-morbidities, which require a change in the paradigms of health care delivery that should be increasingly oriented towards the prevention of preventable diseases, as well as for early clinical intervention. Therefore, we continue to run after injury, investing heavily in the late treatment of the disease, undermining the important role of prevention and health promotion. Instead of acting, we have a SNS that is limited to reacting. Today, we have a ministry of disease; it is time to have a Ministry of Health! [[PSD applause.]] The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines the right to health protection through a National Service of Universal and General Health. Unfortunately, the worsening of the SNS response conditions shows that we are getting further away from what the Constitution promises us. The negative consequences of this government's de-investment are now visible, the signs of degradation in access and quality of health care provided to Portuguese in the SNS are evident. I want to be very clear: the basic law is important, but it is not all. The Portuguese need a government that invests in health and guarantees timely access to the care they need. There is no basic law of health that holds us in the face of the poor governance of the country. We must therefore change.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u50	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u51	For the Social Democratic Party, health determinants and public health policies, focusing on health promotion and prevention, are central to reducing the burden of the disease and therefore the sustainability of the SNS. On the other hand, the public system must be the supreme guarantor of the protection of citizens in the disease, ensuring effective early diagnosis policies, as well as quality and equity health care in access to health care. Moreover, financing models should start to encourage real health gains. As a personalist, pluralist and reformist party, the Social Democratic Party will always reject any political model of statisticizing pendant, which wants to force us to, to, and to, the hammer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u52	You got a ghost! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u53	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u54	... to have in the State the sole and exclusive provider of all public health benefits. [[PSD applause.]] For us, PSD, the management of public services must be primarily public, but we accept the use of the SNS to private and social sectors provided that three cumulative conditions have been met: first, this resource must exist whenever the installed capacity of public services advises or makes it necessary ; second, it must prove beneficial to the State, in terms of the quality-cost binomy, and thirdly - perhaps the most important condition -, this cooperation should lead to the achievement of health gains to the users of the SNS, especially to the most fragile and vulnerable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, the Health Bases Act is not any law, it is not a law that should last just one legislature, but several decades. Those who don't think so, see the tree, but don't see the forest. Those who want to take advantage of today's discussion and the current legislative process to serve their current party conveniences degrade the legislative function and render a poor service to the Portuguese. PSD isn't going that way. We defend a modern, flexible and citizen-centred Health Bases Act. Consecrating the principles of the status of informal caregivers, recognizing the importance of continued end-of-life care, i.e. palliative care, protecting people with disabilities, highlighting the importance of mental health and occupational health are just a few examples of rights and realities that cannot and should not be ignored in a basic health law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u55	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u56	Mr. President, I will finish. For us, PSD, it is time to believe that it is possible to gather all the pluralist parties around a new Health Base Law that allows to achieve a maximum common political denominator. It's time to join together for the health of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u57	Mr António Sales of the PS, although Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite no longer has time for the answer, was signed for clarification. But you have the floor, Mr. Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u58	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite did not leave time to probably respond to the great weight of consciousness he has. That's all that's justified! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u59	You guys just wanted the debate to have an hour. They're full of fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u60	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, this law is too important for ideological rallies and party cards. We are here today because the Health Bases Act in force lacks updating and clarification. We defend consensus, but we do not receive consensus lessons from those who approved a law in 1990 with the exclusive support of the PSD and the CDS and did not seek extended consensus, because this was not allowed by the parliamentary right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the fundamental reasons for the Socialist Party's opposition was precisely the fact that the PSD and the CDS, in clear departure from the constitutional matrix, had imposed as health policy guidelines support for the private and social sector, in competition with the public sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u62	This is the excess, not to say the original sin, of Law No. 48/90 of 24 August, which now justifies a balanced correction. But the PSD and the CDS today, as yesterday, have not been able to free themselves from their usual political views and continue to be faithful to the orientation of equate the SNS with the private sector and the social sector, advocate competition between sectors, provide incentives for the creation of private units and defend the privatization of the management of the SNS through the generalization of public-private partnerships. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that this path does not serve constitutional guidance and does not serve the fundamental interests of the citizens. It is disproposed, Mr. Member, to insist on the marketing of the health system and, at least, on the marketing of the National Health Service. The consensus, Mr President, can certainly not pass through here. My question, Mr President, is it obvious and very simple: is the PSD available to, accepting the constitutional matrix, remove from its proposal the guidelines on competition between sectors and thus contribute, yes, to broad consensus? Oh, my God! It is unfortunate that you do not have time to answer, Mr President. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the health of Portuguese is too valuable to be held hostage by political cycles, to be held hostage by ideological conditions and to be held hostage by inappropriate particular interests. That is why the demand for broad consensus as far as possible is an obligation for all of us. The Portuguese hope that we will meet these challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u63	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u64	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u65	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u66	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u67	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u68	Mr President, I would just like to express my willingness to respond, by the Democratic Social Party, if the Socialist Party wants to give us time. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u69	Take your time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u70	The Socialist Party is not obliged to respond, but, if you wish, it can do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u71	They rule at the expense of others!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u72	Bad management is in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u73	Our time is precious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u74	It's only 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u75	They want to ask questions, but they don't want to hear the answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u76	As in the past, there are no conditions. [[Laughing.]] We shall then proceed to the intervention of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Waiting for conditions now, we have come here to say that the CDS, concerned about the current situation of the country in health and, above all, concerned about the sick people, has said and has exposed the reality. Health is not a priority for this government and successive government errors have clearly harmed the Portuguese. We are clear that there is a state of emergency in health in Portugal, and we are also clear that this debate does not distract us from today. This debate — certainly important and which would have justified the choice of a grid of different times on the part of the government — has not solved the health disaster in the country. We regret that the most recent government proposal is one more missed opportunity, one more governance error, one more damage to add to the country. After having thrown out, for the trash can, a balanced proposal, prepared on the basis of the long work of multiple experts and which resulted in an extended basic consensus, bring us what? They bring us a minimalist text, without vision for modern health and for the future, with the absence of structural and clear values and principles for the health system, a law that does not go beyond the precarious agreements of this legislature. This proposal is far from the challenges that the health system already faces today, is omissa, is poor and insufficient in fundamental areas. The Minister said, days ago, in statements, that she wanted a law for the future. Yeah, look, we don't think so! What the CDS does is to present a proposal that contains structural principles and values for the health system; a proposal that puts the results for the patient and the quality of the services provided to the citizen in its center; a proposal that guarantees the right, for us unquestionable, of protection in health to all, I repeat, to all Portuguese. [[Rice from PS MP Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]] Our proposal is clear, based on ethical values of rigor and transparency, clarifying the functions of the State and valuing the SNS in the health system. contrary to you, we are not moved by an ideological obsession of statisticizing charis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u78	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u79	We do not look at social or private partners as little, available or disposable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u81	unlike you, who forget the patients and precarious access to health care, we do not sacrifice quality results for the citizen in the name of outdated options.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u83	We do not hypothesize the future of the health system and access to care, in the name of ideological inflexibility. Our proposal, I insist, is balanced and does not leave out substantial areas such as: support for caregivers, support for aging, support for mental health, clarification of State functions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government is currently out of line with reality, for which it has no solutions, and leaves access to health care in its precarious situation. This government is out of line with reality in the solutions and lack of vision it presents for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u84	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. Enough of government errors. This proposal for a basic law does not express a consensus, it is not an extended bet. This government is spent and does not serve the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u86	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about health, we do not only speak of a constitutional right, we speak of a right that our Constitution includes in the list of fundamental rights. Also, when the discussion affects proposals for the Health Bases Act, we cannot lose sight of what establishes, on the subject, the Basic Country Law. It is therefore in the light of the Constitution that the various proposals under discussion should be evaluated. And what does the Constitution say? It says, very clearly, that « Everyone has the right to health protection and the duty to defend and promote». It happens that today, when we look back, we realize that the path has not been in that direction. In fact, if it is true that the SNS remains, in spite of everything, a global reference, it is also true that it has been literally suffocated by the underfinancing to which several governments have subjected it. Subfinancing, closure of services and valences or absolutely unacceptable waiting lists are some of the elements that have marked the options of various governments, whose aim was no longer to fatten the private market with health interests. The result is well in sight and was more than predictable: the Portuguese have increasingly difficulty in accessing health care and still have to bear the costs that should have already been paid through taxes that they have delivered to the State. At this point, common sense recommends that one look at the causes that led to this situation and correct the mistakes. In order to do so, it is necessary, first of all, to look at the Health Bases Act of 1990 — approved, to remember, exclusively on the right — and to assess whether this Law came to strengthen the SNS or, on the contrary, to weaken the public response, favouring and enhancing the private response. If there were any doubts, it would be enough to look at the numbers to be properly clarified: today, there are more private hospitals than public hospitals. This is precisely where a large part of the problem lies and, therefore, the Greens do not see themselves in the proposals that aim to continue the promiscuity installed between the public sector and the private sector. We consider this to be an excellent opportunity to proceed with a real, effective and clear separation of sectors, placing private and social sectors on the right place, i.e. by putting them back into the background, with a purely suppletive nature in relation to the SNS and with the State to regulate and monitor their activities, in defence of the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u88	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u89	A Basic Law which takes into account the constitutional precepts will have to promote a genuine investment in the options that have been taken by various governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, in particular in terms of funding, in the clear separation between the public and the private sector, in the appreciation of health professionals and at the end of the moderate rates, which we all know are not moderate. Only in this way, in the understanding of The Greens, will we walk in harmony with our Constitution, guaranteeing the universal and free nature of access to health. Today, it's time to start that way! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u90	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Unregistered Member, Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What role should the health institutions of the State, the National Health Service, play in the relationship with the social sector and the private sector to fulfil the constitutional desire of the right to health? What is the best way to finance health and affect public resources to achieve this goal? The centrality of the State and the National Health Service in the health system must be very clear: they are public universities that form doctors and nurses; they are citizens who finance, via taxes, most of the public spending on health; it is the state 'the last resort provider' in health care, public and private. Thus, a health system must be financed mainly by taxes to allow equity in access. The public funding of private and social entities in the provision of health services is justified where the SNS does not have the capacity to respond to social needs in a timely manner. The public sector, as a funder via SNS, should adopt a complementary logic between the public and private rather than direct competition between providers, as it is more or less explicit in the PSD and CDS projects. Health as a right is aligned with the interests of public providers, but is not aligned with the objectives of the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u92	Mr Moisés Ferreira spoke for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service has transformed society. Health care became accessible to everyone and not only to those who could afford it, health became a right and not a privilege, health indicators improved exponentially. Still, there were always those who had fought the National Health Service: the PSD and the CDS. PSD and CDS voted against its establishment in 1979.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u94	Here they come again!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u95	PSD and CDS, in 1982, in a decree on regional health administrations, tried to repeal almost all SNS law. The PSD, with the support of the CDS, created a Basics Act in 1990 that transformed health into a business and the SNS budget into a form of private financing. The 1990 Law is an infamous law and must be repealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u96	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u97	It is a law that obliges the State to undermine the National Health Service to feed the private. It is the law that opened the door to public-private partnerships, which cost us 500 million euros a year. It is the law that causes EUR 1200 million from the SNS budget to go to convention and other subcontracts. When we are told that there are no professionals in the SNS, let's remember that the law of the PSD and CDS says that the state should facilitate the mobility of professionals for the private. When we are told that there is a lack of capacity for hospitalization in the SNS, let us remember that the law of the PSD and CDS states that the State should support the private by reserving a quota of beds. When we are told that resources are lacking, let us remember that the law of the PSD and CDS, by wanting to promote the private with all force, drained the public resources and therefore 4 € in every 10 € does not remain in the SNS. That, yes, is unsustainable! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] It's an infamous law, but fortunately, it has its days counted. PSD and CDS bring to debate projects that are only more of the same. Really, there are things that don't change! When the right one talks about health, he thinks too much about customers and shareholders and less about users and citizens. These are proposals that do not serve the users or the country. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite said he didn't want a law on the scissors and hammer. We know! PSD and CDS want is a law of Health Light and Group Mello, and that is what is destroying the country and the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We need to discuss ways to strengthen the National Health Service. This is done by the clear separation between the public and private sectors, putting an end to the bleeding of resources; it is done by the whole public management of all SNS units; it is made clear that the private sector's relationship with the public is complementary and will exist only until the SNS acquires the missing response. The future of the National Health Service goes through the restoration of careers, to fix more professionals, and to promote exclusivity, through a system that does not allow masked copying of moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u99	And it is in this respect that the PS and the government have to be clear. The management of the SNS should be fully public, without fringes or slippers for new PPPs ( public-private partnerships ). Is the Government available to guarantee this principle? The relationship between the public sector and the private sector should be complementary, and the private sector should be complementary to the action of the public. Is the government available to clarify the relationship between sectors? Moderate rates cannot be a barrier or serve as co-payments. Are the government and the PS available to change this aspect? It is necessary to recover the careers that have been destroyed, ensure the bond as a public official and the full and exclusive dedication. Are the government and the PS available to strengthen these aspects?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u100	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u101	at a time when we discuss the future of the SNS, clarity is required in the aspects that are fundamental, and that is why, clearly, the Left Block says the following: if there is availability for negotiation and convergence in these aspects, there will be no lack of future for the National Health Service. If there is availability and convergence in these aspects, we will not lack this requirement, to build a new basic law that strengthens the SNS, which strengthens the rights of users, which makes the country more just.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u102	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. A basic law that once again makes health a right, not a privilege and much less a business. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u104	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate on the Health Bases Act exalts and honours the humanist vision and memory of Antonio Arnaut. For the PS, for the true SNS defenders, people, users are at the heart of our concerns, but we know, we always know, that we can't do everything at the same time and that to recover and rebuild takes much longer than to destroy. This Government bill emphasizes the appreciation and modernization of the SNS, maintaining its universal character, public and tend to be free of charge. We are therefore with these lines, the PS and the government, available to improve, knowing beforehand that, with the support of all the real defenders of the SNS, we can always do better, but it is important to stress that we are not available either to privatize health or to statize health. We therefore want to make the balance, a virtuous balance. The universality of health is the competence and responsibility of the State, responsibility, that the PS does not abdicate. Of course, we do not oppose the coexistence of complementary responses at social and private level. This basic law should clarify this differentiation very well. Similarity to teaching is a way that we are very pleased with, also ensuring that this is a stable and lasting solution. This bill is not an ideological or left-wing project, it is of course a proposal that has the political philosophy present in Article 64. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is also that of the PS and all Portuguese of good will, and that is what we want today, here, to enforce. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore up to me to reiterate what António Arnaut said in this House, during the debate in 1979, to the PSD and the CDS, which show today, as at the time, « difficulty in defending their projects, which have no possibility of defense. They discussed more about the PS project..."—in this case, about the bill — «... than about the defense of their own project ». It is not too much to remember that the PSD, which likes to stand before the Portuguese—and still today—as a great advocate of the SNS, did not support its creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u106	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u107	And more: he diabolized it, shamefully, by the voice of the, then, Minister of Health, Arlindo Carvalho, in 1990. As I said, the PSD and the CDS presented themselves with shame of their projects, since they did not expose them, and focused on the purely negative criticism of the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u108	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u109	In fact, we know what your real attempts are, which are no more than to ensure the financing of private medicine for public money. Finally, once again, « wolf dressed as a lamb». to PCP, sign your contributions and, yes, we have a convergent vision. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u110	We can and should, of course, be open to improvement and deepening, in the name of a stronger SNS. I would also like to point out the contributions that the Left Block has made and that they are already in the field of specialty, reiterating what it said earlier: private people should be seen in health in the same way as they are seen and participate in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u111	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u112	I will now finish, Mr President. We believe that this bill of law that the Government has brought to us is the proposal for the fulfilment of a constitutional imperative, to ensure the fulfilment of the will of the Portuguese. The SNS was, in 1979, and is also today the symbol of coherence in the field of social reforms. the PSD and CDS leave a final challenge: of course private medicine existed in 1974, in 1979, in 1990,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u113	You're going to have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u114	...and exists today, with even more lightning. Private medicine does not lack financial injections or state incentives. The SNS, yes, lacks all those who are their true defenders and therefore we ask them to stand up and fight honorably and intransigently in the defense of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u115	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PCP brings to this debate a draft health-based law aimed at a primary objective: to ensure, through the public service, through the National Health Service, that all Portuguese, that all users are entitled to quality health care, without any discrimination due to socio-economic conditions. It is important today to clarify that those who come to say that they defend the health of everyone and that they defend people are talking only about those who have economic conditions to pay for their own health care. Addressing the national health system as if the public and private sectors aimed at the same objectives is to attempt to mislead Portuguese people, because what they are clearly exposing is a quality health service for those who do not have economic conditions, while ensuring with private groups a health service for those who can afford to pay. What PSD and CDS came here clearly defended was business ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u117	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u118	The ideology of access to health only for those who have income to pay for it. For this, they do not, of course, count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, in order to defend the National Health Service, there are aspects that are fundamental. What we consider necessary to do in order, in fact, to give effect to constitutional law is to put an end to moderate rates, because they do not moderate anything today. They are an obstacle for many and many Portuguese people, who do not access health care, because they do not have economic conditions to do so. It is also necessary to value health professionals so that they want to continue in the National Health Service; it is necessary to hire more health professionals, so that the National Health Service can effectively be of proximity, so that it can provide time and time care and so that it can give the response to which Portuguese have the right. We need to put an end to public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u119	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. Unlike what was said by the PSD and the CDS, the role of the State is not to finance private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u122	The role of the State is to ensure the provision of health care for all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u123	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u124	... and who is in a position to guarantee universally, generally and without discrimination, is a strengthened National Health Service with adequate conditions and funding. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u125	To conclude this point, you have the floor by the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal which the Government has brought here today is ideologically consistent with what is defended in terms of the social functions of the State. It is a technically robust and politically solid law, which does not lack clarity in the health policy options that focus on those mentioned here: 21st-century society, with its expectations, aspirations and values; centrality in people; strengthening the role of the State; clarifying relations with the private and social sectors; strengthening and modernizing the SNS. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is probably a unique opportunity. The hesitations, the benevolent transitions, the commitments, so much of our spell, have sometimes corrupted several initiatives, as Miller Guerra said. Now, send the Assembly of the Republic. Learn the Assembly of the Republic to be wise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u127	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We now move on to the general discussion of the Bill No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. You have the floor to present this proposal, Minister for National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Military Programming Act (LPM) is a structural law for the Portuguese State. Through it, at the same time, we give continuity and open space for renewal. We start new paths, because times are new and challenges are different, but we do not neglect the need to care for and prolong the use of equipment that currently serves us well. The Armed Forces are national. Today, as in the past, they are at the service of all Portuguese people and, in this sense, of course, I consider the dialogue most relevant, the availability for debate and the convergence in this House, which is where the different perspectives of Portuguese society are represented. The proposal we bring here is a sedimentated proposal in many months of reflection and discussion within the Armed Forces, and with political protection. It is a proposal that went through a set of stages of elaboration and discussion in different working groups and in several formal instances, particularly in the Council of Heads of State-Major, the Military Superior Council and the National Defence Superior Council. The current stage, in the Assembly of the Republic, is the appropriate time to be able to collect the suggestions and develop the consensualization that is possible between the parties. in this proposal, we seek to meet four fundamental objectives, four structural objectives for the defense and security of the country. The first objective of this proposal is to empower our Armed Forces to carry out their fundamental mission to contribute to the security of Portugal and Portuguese in a context that is different from the above. This is therefore a mission which is perennial, on the one hand, but also new, because the international circumstances today are different. We currently live in an international context of great instability and unpredictability. This reality requires careful preparation and weighting of investment in defence equipment. It would be unwise and, I would say, irresponsible not to meet the need to better equip our Armed Forces for this new framework, and that is why we expect, with this bill, to strengthen investment in our own defence. in all, we plan to invest 4, 74 billion euros over 12 years, which corresponds to a reinforcement which is both quantitative and qualitative. We thus strengthen Portugal's position as a net producer and contributor to international security. This is the best way to promote our own defence, because it is better assured when we are involved in multilateral processes leading to international stability and order. This bill assumes this responsibility and seeks to materialize it. But this proposal also responds to the extraordinary responsibilities inherent in the Portuguese continental shelf, which is expected to be extended in the near future. The exercise of State authority over its vast maritime spaces requires the strengthening of its presence in the sea, but also requires new capacities in the air, space and cyberspace. For all these dimensions, this proposal by LPM presents concrete contributions. The second objective of this proposal is to empower our Armed Forces for a growing variety of missions. The main projects included in this LPM proposal build capacities that guarantee the interoperability of our media. Increasingly, the three branches of the Armed Forces work articulatedly, taking advantage of their own valences and genetic capabilities. This requires adequate training and equipment so that the Armed Forces can effectively and fully correspond to the nature of the missions entrusted to them. This vision is clearly reflected in the proposals of this LPM, in particular in the structural proposals for the acquisition of new equipment, such as, for example, strategic and tactical transport aircraft, protection helicopters or the logistics multi-purpose ship. in this sense, the LPM proposal is designed to promote modernization, not only of equipment but also of the way we work our Armed Forces. I would also like to point out that this LPM proposal creates the conditions for men and women of our Armed Forces to be equipped with the best possible protection, with equipment to ensure their maximum operational effectiveness. This is a responsibility of the greatest importance and that we do not neglect. The third objective enshrined in this proposal is that of betting in means of dual use, military and civilian, as well as the adequacy of different types of missions. This bill favours means of strengthening the capacity to respond to situations of civil emergency and humanitarian assistance. With it, we are better prepared to provide humanitarian aid and respond to accidents or disasters, either in national territory, collaborating with the other security and civil protection forces, in respect of constitutional imperatives, either outside Portugal, near our diaspora or other humanitarian emergency contexts. This third objective includes a challenge shared by all bodies of the State, which is the promotion of national territorial cohesion. In this regard, I can quote ocean patrol vessels, multi-purpose logistics ship and strategic and tactical aviation. Finally, I would like to stress that the fourth objective of this proposal for the Military Programming Act is to boost the competitiveness of the national industry. Through investment in innovation, research and development and through internationalisation, a concrete and substantial return is expected to be made to the national economy. Much of the planned investment will be made in Portugal and, by this way, we will create jobs, promote the training of Portuguese companies in this sector and strengthen their export capacity. In short, we will consolidate our technological and industrial defence base. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a proposal for a Military Programming Act appropriate to our long-weighted and structured needs, which seeks to carefully reflect the needs for the next 12 years. This is not a maximalist LPM proposal, it is an LPM proposal that allows for a transformational impact on our Armed Forces and that at the same time will have multiplier effects on our economy. This proposal is a result of an extended consensus in national defence bodies and mechanisms, but it will benefit from broad approval in this House and, through your vote, from the approval of the entire Portuguese society. Our Armed Forces are, and will always continue to be, available for the missions that the country entrusts to them and will fulfill them, with brightness and full dedication. It is up to us to create the conditions for these missions to succeed and prestigious Portugal. This is a proposal by the LPM which, in my view, meets all these requirements, which correspond to the fundamental objectives of national defence and which concerns all Portuguese, since it was designed to serve them better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u129	Mr Minister for National Defence, the Bureau records the entries of four Mrs. Members for requests for clarification and was informed that the Minister will answer together. For the first request for clarification, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, with this proposal for a Military Programming Act, the Government intends to make an investment in defence in the order of EUR 4740 million, with a view to the re-equipment and modernization of the Armed Forces. They are very high costs, taking into account the country's priorities. in the range of areas of the military sphere, with emphasis on ocean patrol vessels, no doubt the necessary investments will have to be made, taking into account the inadequacy and antiquity of the means to ensure patrol missions and surveillance, surveillance, search and rescue. However, in the opinion of the Left Block, there are other means to be reconsidered, considering the high costs for the country, as is the case for, for example, the KC-390 planes and the logistics multi-purpose ship, which correspond to investments of 827 million and more 300 million over the next 12 years. The Portuguese will not realize that spending on this type of military means is being made, when the government has failed in public investment, when the government has not responded to important social services, such as education and health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u131	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u132	It is still a paradox: in investment and in the social area, this government has pursued a policy of subservience to deficit and Brussels ; already in the military field, subservience is to NATO ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ), Europe and Trump, who want to spend 2 % of GDP (gross domestic product) on defence. Then there are other questions that need to be pointed out. The pretext of double use, many of these means will be put at the service of NATO, which is a global instrument of war and not a peace organization—just look at its sad history. According to the Government, the logistics multi-purpose ship, in addition to supporting injured populations, for civilian emergencies, for transport and humanitarian assistance, will be used to design military forces and equipment in external operations, in the so-called National Highlighted Forces, at the service of NATO and the European Union. That is exactly what happens to submarines: it is nearly 1000 million to serve foreign military forces and organizations. Mr Minister, does he indeed confirm that the multipurpose logistics ship will also serve to integrate the rapid reaction force of NATO and the European Union? Another issue, Mr. Minister, has to do with the planes KC-390, which was planned to be built at the premises of the GMOs (General Aeronautical Material Offices ), which were acquired by Brazilian Embraer. Apparently, all this is at serious risk, because Boeing has acquired much of Embraer and Bolsonaro may even question the GMOs themselves in Portugal, with serious consequences for thousands of workers. For now, Minister, it seems that Brazilians are asking for more money. Mr Minister, if this business fails, what is the government's plan B? Are you going to move forward with more words if you're asked? If it fails, will it not be at stake what the government calls 'consolidation of a national aviation cluster'? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u133	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for National Defence, the first aspect we want to highlight is the fact that, once again, as has happened with previous Military Programming Act proposals, this bill has not been submitted in time for approval before the start of its implementation. However, it is true that the delay is significantly lower than the previous proposals and that the Minister has attenuating the substitution that occurred in the Ministry of National Defence. The second aspect we want to highlight is that we are discussing a proposal that, at least since April, the Government has been announcing, in the visits to military units, as a result, in contempt of the Assembly of the Republic, which is sovereign in the decision on this Act. We know these ads have stopped, but here's the record. Finally, Mr Minister, the CFP affirms its availability — as it has always done — for a serious discussion in the field of expertise. If there are equipment options that are more peaceful, there are others, such as the logistics multipurpose ship, which offer many reservations. We therefore leave you a few questions at the moment of the debate. In addition to the doubts about the implementation of the KC-390 programme, does the Government plan that, throughout this LPM, new programmes of some financial size can be integrated, particularly in the Air Force? Is it possible to have an idea of the participation of the national industry in this total LPM, including in the possible KC-390 business? Finally, does the Government consider that it is not possible to make changes to the acquisition programmes referred to in this proposal for a Military Programming Act as a matter of debate? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u135	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Gomes, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, this is a good proposal for a revision of the Military Programming Act and represents a significant effort by this Government of convergence and consensus. This proposal is an integrated and coherent view of and for national defence and, in choosing the projects to be financed, it follows a clear and substantiated strategy, opting for those that allow a concrete return to the national economy and at the same time provide the construction of a common defence policy. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, this bill has a considerable degree of consensus, but the Socialist Party has already said that this Parliament does not cease to have a significant role in its discussion. The Socialist Party emphasizes the relationship of this Ministry of Defence with this Parliament ; we see, for example, the review of the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, where a remarkable work has been carried out and its approval has been achieved unanimously. Mr Minister, the Socialist Party reiterates its full openness to make this the best law of the Armed Forces for the country, understanding that it is not impossible to achieve an extended consensus in its approval. Is the government also open to the possibility of improving this bill? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u137	Mr Marco António Costa, from the PSD, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of National Defence, first of all on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, wanted to express our pride in the Armed Forces, for their performance not only in international missions but also in times of greater urgency and national emergency. in this context, the Minister spoke of two objectives which were taken into account in the elaboration of this proposal for a Military Programming Act. The first of these objectives is referred to in the preamble, where it is stated that the prospect of double use of the equipment to be purchased was followed, a perspective with which, in fact, we agree, without any reservation. Still in Article 1 ( 4 ). this proposal can be read: "It is also the objective of this law to promote the dual use of military capabilities, allowing(...) to respond to needs in civil missions. Do not keep on seeking. ” The question that arises, Minister, is whether there is a list of equipment classified as dual-use, and thus is expected to acquire it. The second question is whether the Government has any notion of the investment value that this possible list might correspond to. The third question is whether there is a prediction of the potential allocation of such equipment to military use and civilian use. The answer to these questions will make it possible to measure more rigorously, which will in fact constitute the acquisition of military equipment. The answer to these questions will allow us to assess for the future what is effectively a military option and thus avoid a decharacterization of the Military Programming Act and still realize the real growth of investment in military equipment. The second objective which the Minister here has also referred to, and which this Law enshrines, is enshrined in Article 1 ( 5 ). that of the same, in which the principle of, while respecting competition rules, is affirmed to enhance the investment of the national economy. The PSD on this subject also agrees. In fact, if today we have the naval industry serving our Navy, much is due to the action of the PSD government with what it has done by the Viana Shipkeepers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u139	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u140	in this perspective, let us ask how Mr. Minister and the Ministry of National Defence intend to combine these two concerns and thus implement this strategy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u141	To reply, Mr. Minister for National Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the various comments and questions. I would like to begin by pointing out something that I believe has already stressed in the initial intervention: the importance I attach to the debate here in this House. I see this opportunity as a time for the generation of consensus and, in this sense, of course, I cannot stop being open to suggestions that may have. Having said that, we have put forward a proposal that we consider to be coherent, rational and long-considered. The proposals for improvement will always be welcome, but should not, however, decharacterise or contribute to a patch blanket. I would also like to refer to the problem of double use. Indeed, the means we propose to acquire for the State will be the means of the State itself, will be used by the State and may be used in different missions. This means that, in respect of what is stipulated in the Constitution, we can imagine that the tactical and strategic aviation we propose to buy, or the Logistics Polyvalent Ship, or the ocean patrol ships, or the protection helicopters, any of these equipment may also be used for civil purposes. For example, in situations related to possible disaster in the islands, forest fire-related situations, search and rescue-related situations, situations related to support to the national health system. There are multiple possibilities. I would also like to refer to the issue of support for the Defence Technology and Industrial Base ( BTID ). by acquiring new equipment and by strengthening the maintenance of equipment already used, we need to verify what are the possibilities of simultaneously stimulating our defense industry. I believe that with the proposals made here in this LPM, we will find multiple opportunities to stimulate the defence industry in a context where this stimulus will also be very important for the national capacity to participate in projects within the European Defence Fund and within the framework of permanent structured cooperation. in this sense, we look at this Military Programming Act as having multiple valences and virtues: it allows not only to properly equip our Armed Forces for the missions entrusted to it but also to strengthen the competitiveness of our national industry, an area of greatest importance. It should be noted that, in the area of the aviation cluster, we are talking about exports in the range of EUR 5000 million, greater than the export of cars, and therefore is an area of greater interest to the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u143	I should like to inform you that the Minister has benefited from this transfer by the PS for another 1 minute in his speech. We are now in a position to give the floor to Mr José de Matos Correia. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u144	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary for National Defence, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: As often happens between us, whether in the political life in general or in the parliamentary life in particular, the accessory becomes the real centre of debate and the essential thing is relegated, at best, to the second or third line of attention. The initiative we are now discussing is clear evidence of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u145	But that's not all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u146	And yet the subject is essential for the future of the Portuguese Armed Forces and, consequently, for the defence of the national interest. Let me therefore, first of all, leave here, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and following what has already been done by my colleague Marco António Costa, a note of admiration and respect for our Armed Forces. Of course, for the role they have historically played, and will continue to assume, as guarantors of national independence, but also for their decisive contribution in two other plans: in support of populations, both on the continent, both in autonomous regions, with emphasis on combating forest fires and for search and rescue; in international missions in which, with their performance, they elevate the name of Portugal, as it is now well visible, for example in the Central African Republic or the Mediterranean. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u147	But a second note is justified, it is no longer addressed to the institution, but to all of them what they serve, to leave a word of sincere recognition and gratitude for the way they give up their role, often with limited resources, but always with the aim of fulfilling, with honor and determination, the tasks they are given. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For different reasons, the Military Programming Act is not any law. in the material plan, because it has as its object the definition and timing of the public investment in armaments and equipment of the Armed Forces. in the temporal plan, because it integrates a set of options which, precisely because of their structural nature, are intended to be in force for a period of 12 years, without, of course, prejudice to the revisions to which it may be subject. in the political plane, because the Constitution itself wanted to qualify it as organic law, thus imposing on it more demanding approval requirements than those to which ordinary laws are subordinated. in this context, it is justified to remember the history of this debate, that is, the extensive and well structured reform process carried out by the previous government. It was a process that began with the approval of the Defence 2020 reform, which then became part of the revision of all the structural documents of national defence, including in 2015 the Military Programming Act and which - it is never too much to remember - took place in a period of great budgetary constraints due to the disastrous inheritance left by the socialist government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u148	Embarrassments that, of course, could not stop affecting our Armed Forces, forcing their ability to do much with more limited resources and to review or eliminate some of the programmes then planned. Still, in a joint work with military leaders, priorities for the modernization and equipment of our Armed Forces were defined at that time, in greater conformity with the strategic interest of national defence, priorities that we believe have not undergone significant changes. That is why we believe that the proposed revision of the LPM, implicitly recognising the correctness of the reforms made by the previous Government, has shown itself in many respects as continuity with regard to the decisions taken in 2015, consolidated conclusion, moreover, by the fact that two thirds of its total value are intended to continue the programmes and investments developed over the past few years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Because the PSD makes opposition responsible for a practice and not a mere proclamation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u150	... I would like to highlight the correctness of the regulatory formalization in this proposal of aspects such as interoperability, flexibility and adaptability, contracting procedures within multilateral and bilateral initiatives or dual use of military capabilities, in order to strengthen the support of the Armed Forces in civilian missions. at the same time, however, we cannot fail to point out some concerns that the Government's proposal raises in central aspects. First of all, the replacement of C-130 aircraft, a need which has been imposed for several years, taking into account its strategic importance, not only for the Armed Forces, but for the entire country, the option for the KC-390 project would ultimately resolve the issue. This is unless, last week, in hearing here, Mr. Chief of the Air Force's Senior Staff, for the first time, has left the indication that Portugal could abandon this programme, in the face of increasing charges. And he stressed, even, that the Air Force would be already, as it is their duty, to consider other alternatives. Thus, and since the Government did not do so on its own initiative, the PSD Parliamentary Group insists on the need to obtain the necessary clarifications. Is Embraer confirmed to be increasing the cost of aircraft? What justifies this attitude? What other alternatives are being considered by the government? at the same time, it is crucial to evaluate the implications that the value of 827 million allocated to KC-390 may bring to other programs of the Air Force, in particular the modernization of the F-16, with which this may mean in terms of the allocation of our ability to participate in international missions. with regard to the Army, it is important to obtain additional clarification on aspects such as the postponement of investments on medium capacity, such as the modernization of Pandur cars, the difficulties that may arise with respect to the fulfilment of our cooperative security obligations or limitations in terms of the development of technological means. A note, moreover, about recent news that took account of the change in the requirements of the light weapon acquisition contest for the Army and that the possibility of replacing G3 with a weapon in use only in a NATO country would be equaciated. What does the government have to tell us about this and what impact can this change of direction have on a tender worth EUR 42, EUR 8 million? Finally, with regard to the Navy, the proposal includes funds for six new ocean patrol vessels, for a new resupplyer and for an unpublished medium in Portugal, the logistics multipurpose vessel, an option which, curiously, was the reason invoked by the Socialist Party in 2015 to abstain in the vote of the current Military Programming Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u152	If, as we hope, such programmes go through the strengthening of the intervention of the national industry, as it is obvious from the competition laws, it will be once again that the decision taken by the previous Executive to save the shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo was the most successful, despite having been so criticised by the political forces that are now integrated or that today support the current government solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u153	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u154	Special reference is, however, due to the question of frigates. Mr. Chief of the Navy Staff told us yesterday that the proposal envisages the acquisition programme of new frigates intended to replace the Vasco da Gama class. It is a decision that goes against the position defended by the PSD, although, in a typically socialist logic, it is referred to the last quadriennium of application of the law, which, moreover, constitutes an unfortunate and unjustifiable constant of the proposal, to push forward for the future! assumed in these terms, however, this option means that Portugal, for a long period of time, will be limited, at best, to the simultaneous use of the two frigates of the Bartolomeu Dias class in scenarios of the highest intensity, or of greater requirement. Does the Government believe that this situation is compatible with national interests and with the ability to assume our obligations in terms of defending sovereignty and meeting our international obligations? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015 the PS did not rest until it found any argument that would allow it not to vote favourably for the revision of the LPM, criticizing up to innovative solutions at the time, but which are now kept in the text of the proposal that your Government submits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u156	The PSD, for its part, in the government as well as in the opposition, is guided by coherence and responsibility. We therefore renew our readiness to, in respect of the principles that lead us and the practical policy options that we defend, contribute to building a broad consensus in the areas of national defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u157	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u158	I will now finish, Mr President. And, logically as a result of this position, we will work with the Government and all other political forces in order to improve the proposal that the Government presents to us for revision of the LPM, in particular by looking at the issues I have left here. Because, as always, our sole aim is to ensure to our Armed Forces the best possible conditions for carrying out the missions assigned to them, in the name of Portugal's strategic interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u159	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Rebelo, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u160	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State for National Defence, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Dear Members: As a previous point I cannot but regret the delay in delivering the Military Programming Act to Parliament by the Government, when it should have been delivered long before, with sufficient time to hold a serious and rigorous debate, still in 2018, and consequently have entered into force at the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u162	We are discussing today, in general, one of the most important laws for the fulfilment of the missions of the Armed Forces, whether these internal missions, or those external missions in the alliance system in which Portugal is located, and in the National Highlighted Forces. Missions in which the outstanding performance of our military represents daily an added security and well-being for our country and the Portuguese people. It is enough to remember all the missions carried out in Portugal or abroad by our Armed Forces, which have been greatly appreciated by all by the competence and courage, at times endangering their own lives to ensure the safety of all of us. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With the international situation at the level of very worrisome threats, with repercussions at all levels — social, political and economic — the growing need for well-equipped, well-prepared, organized and motivated Armed Forces is a national design that should all embrace. The Nation knows the value of its Armed Forces, does not dispense them, and believes in the factors of their dignity. The CDS is therefore committed to the Armed Forces, with its re-equipment, investment and adequacy to the new challenges that they face, never forgetting that the sovereignty functions lie in unnegotiable public goods. The Military Programming Act is therefore a legal instrument that defines the State's investment options for the defence sector. Although the lack of investment in the Armed Forces is often mentioned, I would like to point out, however, that in the first decade of the millennium more than EUR 3000 million was invested in military re-equipment. A very strong effort has been made by the various State budgets and various governments in the re-equipment of our Armed Forces. Highlights: the new submarines, the modernisation of the F-16 and the P3 - Orion, the purchase of the C-295 tactical plane, the Dutch frigates, 8x8 Pandur wheel armored vehicles and many other military means and equipment. This very important re-equipment effort, which has been made, ensures that the Armed Forces are currently fulfilling their objectives and missions. however, this same effort was less than necessary in this second decade of the millennium. On the other hand, and I am referring again to this, the world in which we live is too dangerous and uncertain to allow, by action or omission, that true national error which would be to see the threats grow, but let security levels fall in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u164	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members: As important as a good Military Programming Act is its exemplary execution and here the current government has been giving us signs that leave us concerned and with reservations about the future. If we check the available data until then and only 2016 and 2017, as the 2018 State General Account has not yet been published, we find that the degree of implementation of the previous LPM has been down. If, in 2016, the implementation deviation is minimal, as an execution of EUR 230 million was planned and EUR 227 million was executed, the same is no longer true for 2017, in which the originally planned implementation was EUR 250 million, but at the end of the year only EUR 226 million was executed, i.e. a execution below that expected by 10 %. We wait for the official numbers of 2018 to see whether it was an isolated case or whether it was the beginning of a process of insufficient execution of the LPM. But going to the concrete of this new Military Programming Act, as the Minister himself admits, two thirds of the planned investment are continuous and one third refers to new structural projects. This is a fact that we welcome, firstly because this government, which has the support of radical left-wings, does not intend to cut entirely with what has come from the former Executive, as it has done in other areas, and secondly because it recognizes that much of the investment has already come from the past, that it is not common in this Government, that it has always been very difficult to recognize what has been done well before taking possession. with regard to new investments, one of the most important will be the acquisition of KC-390 planes for the replacement of the C-130 of the Air Force, with a value of EUR 827 million on the horizon of 12 years, according to the Government and the new Military Programming Act. The CDS recognises the importance of this acquisition and recognises the decisive role that, so far, the C-130s have and that, in the future, the KC-390s will have either in purely military missions, or in dual use, or in civilian missions. For this reason, it is urgent to clarify definitely whether the State will or will not acquire the KC-390, because the information we have is contradictory. The Chief of the Air Force Major State, General Manuel Rollo, revealed at the hearing in the Defence Commission that the Portuguese State admits to abandoning the acquisition project of these same planes to Embraer if it does not lower the desired values, and I quote: « The State does not want to see exceeded beyond this amount, we are in a ferro-negotiation and begins to prevail that, if Embraer does not come to these values, the Portuguese State will have to go to other options». Mr Minister, this is a vision that we agree and support! Other very important programs for the re-equipment of our Armed Forces are proposed in this Act, which we agree with: the acquisition of the last 6 NPOs; a new refuelling; the logistics multipurpose ship; light helicopters; equipment for the light forces of the Army and many others. however, there are several doubts and concerns that this review of the LPM offers us: firstly, we regard as negative the fact that the bulk of the investment has slipped into the second, but, above all, into the third quadriennium, leaving an investment too limited and concentrated in some programmes in the first quadriennium. In addition, the Army appears to be the affected branch with this distribution of money and it seems evident. Secondly, they were identified by military leaders with shortcomings regarding the projects that this LPM leaves out, as well as the budget failure of some programs considered in it. I can cite, as an example, the fact that CEMFA ( Chief of the Air Force's Senior Staff ) warned about possible subordination for this year in terms of available amounts and also the fact that CEMFA ( Chief of the Navy's Senior Staff ) stated that there would be no modernisation of the MEKO frigates in the coming years, which actually creates a problem, as has already been mentioned here by Mr Matos Correia. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude by saying that the CDS has over time been part of the solution with regard to the approval of LPM, but we do not abdicate, however, our critical capacity and improve the proposals we are given. Mr Minister, we also did not embark on the demagogy of those who criticize the amounts invested in security and defence, as if they were wasted values and could be channelled to another end. Let us not deal with this demagogy! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u165	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The present world is more unstable and more dangerous than it has been a few years ago. With the fall of the Berlin Wall, after all, the end of history did not come true and Fukuyama's theses dissipated with strawberry. Theses sponsored by liberal democracies that were, after all, at the base of an increasingly unstable world, with their role of invasions, wars, financial crises, terrorism, cyber attacks, mass immigration and the worsening of climate change. Portugal, being part of the world, cannot be isolated and needs to have armed forces adapted to the new realities in which we live. Armed Forces that continue to govern within the legal plane and the constitutional order in force. The main function of the Armed Forces should not be reversed, i.e. as advocated by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is up to the Armed Forces to defend the military of the Republic, but, where necessary, the Armed Forces may be responsible for collaborating in civil protection missions, in tasks related to meeting basic needs and improving the quality of life and well-being of populations. All this to meet this Law of Military Programming proposed by the Government and which speaks very much in dual use, military and civil. Won't other intentions, such as PS, PSD and CDS, be underlying here? The Armed Forces may and should collaborate in civil protection missions, where required, and should not make civil protection their primary function. In other words, civil protection cannot walk towards a growing militarization. The Armed Forces must cooperate only on request of civil protection. Public investments in the framework of the National Defence for the coming years are high, with such dual-use functions, in which much of the military means to acquire or build will be used to design forces in missions outside the service of militaristic organizations that will all be less peaceful, like NATO, as I said recently. Again recently, a news came to the public in which Portugal, during this year, will participate in 29 missions worldwide, with 6 ships, 10 aircraft, 66 tactical cars and 2349 military. And see: only 1112 soldiers will be at the service of external missions within NATO. Only for NATO are these military and media used and then there are still those who say that the country lacks military and media. As is shown, it is for the commitment of these missions and for the strengthening of them in the future that this proposed military programming law has been drawn up. Here we can see, as it could only be, a broad consensus between the PS, the PSD and the CDS and that the Left Block will not be able to follow. As I said, the country will not understand that almost EUR 5000 billion is spent in the coming years, when the government is unable to respond to social functions, such as education, health, and almost three million Portuguese at risk of poverty. With this LPM, the Government, the PS, the PSD and the CDS are meeting the requirements of NATO, Europe and Trump summits to meet the 2 % target of GDP (gross domestic product) in defence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u167	Mr Vitalino Canas, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: It may be trivial to say that we live in a rapidly changing world with increasingly unpredictable flows and dynamics. It may be trivial to say that the world is dangerous and more unstable and therefore more lacking in contribution to global peace and security, such as Portugal. In addition, Portugal is subject to imperatives of sovereignty which are expected to be extended in the future, with expected expansion of the Portuguese continental shelf. All this implies that we have modern armed forces and equipped for the new security and defence environment we live in. This is the first wish of the Military Programming Act for the next 12 years: to equip our Armed Forces with the means to carry out the missions that the Constitution gives them. in this respect, it is inserted in a line of continuity with previous congenerous laws. However, there are other aspects where the LPM has to evolve. On the one hand, Portugal is increasingly integrated into collective and cooperative security spaces which involve higher levels of coordination and articulation, and the developments that have occurred in recent years at the level of the European Union are very relevant. Betting on interoperability and flexibility is also important in this context. On the other hand, the prestige and dedication of the Armed Forces have raised a growing appeal on the part of the civil community to involve them in non-military missions, contributing to the well-being of the populations. the concern to ensure investment in dual-use and multi-use programmes and equipment — civil and military. Moreover, in a context of limited resources, which will not change significantly over the next 12 years, it is necessary to ensure that an effort of nearly EUR 5000 million results in a positive and multiplier impact on the national economy and Portugal's participation in global markets. It is therefore worth mentioning that military leaders have highlighted in their hearings in the National Defence Commission: this LPM will contribute to the development in our country of clusters at aeronautical level and in the shipbuilding sector, in addition to competing for the development of national scientific research and the technological base of dual-use industries. The LPM translates into a remarkable investment in our scientific and technological systems as well as in our industrial fabric. That is the way and the Socialist Party welcomes this direction. Mr President, whenever proposals for military programming legislation are discussed, it is inevitable that one of the central issues will be the allocation of funds by the three branches. And in this regard, we must not fail to address the geostrategic position and risks of Portugal, which necessarily have to be reflected in a significant way in the distribution of funds. I remember only one aspect: 35 % of the European Union's external trade goes through Portuguese waters, about 60 % of all Portuguese foreign trade occurs by sea and about 70 % of national imports use the same route. We understand that the LPM adequately meets this fundamental criterion and we are pleased to note that, in the hearings of the military leaders, who have already been carried out, they have all ensured that it is balanced and is likely to provide satisfactory fulfilment of the missions of each branch. It also deserves to highlight the strong bet on the Joint and Combined Operation capability of our Armed Forces. Several joint capacity programmes, covering around two fifths of the funds allocated to the MRL, are strategic and structural in this area. With the long delay of the logistics multipurpose ship, the strategic, tactical-logistic and refuelling aircraft, the evacuation helicopters and the cyberdefense instruments — to point out only a few — aims to achieve greater effectiveness and, as the military leaders have pointed out, enable our Armed Forces to reach a new level. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Socialist Party believes that this is a good proposal for a law of military programming, a law that seeks to match the expectations of the Armed Forces, within the availability of resources of the country, and which also addresses the contributions and concerns of other political forces, in this Parliament. We know, however, that there are aspects that require openness and capacity to generate consensus, essential in a structural and long-lasting law such as the LPM. in this field, this Parliament has a role to play and the Socialist Party will be here to contribute to this role, reaching consensus on sovereignty as necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u169	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u170	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : See the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 273. the following paragraph 1 : « It is the obligation of the State to ensure national defence » and in paragraph 2 of that Article: « National defence aims to ensure, in respect of constitutional order, democratic institutions and international conventions, national independence, the integrity of the territory and the freedom and security of the peoples against any external aggression or threat ». Article 275 ( 1 ). it also states that « The Armed Forces are responsible for the military defense of the Republic » and paragraph 4 of the same article states: « The Armed Forces are at the service of the Portuguese people(...) ». For the CFP, of course the priority of the Armed Forces is the national defence rather than the defence of other things, namely NATO and organisations at European level, as was clear here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u171	Therefore, the reversal of this priority is not justified, transforming the satisfaction of international commitments in the alpha and omega of the Armed Forces. In fact, what life shows is that the more external participation we have, the more weaknesses are revealed in several vectors of our Armed Forces. It is in this framework that the Military Programming Act must define the level of priority that takes over the military component of national defence, particularly its fundamental options. in this sense, it should be pointed out that some of the options contained in this law reveal more of the requirements of our participation in international missions—which involve expenses which, in our view, are inconceivable — than necessary for the defence of the national interest. Our discrepancy and our doubts about some of this LPM's programmes do not have to do with the need to re-equip the Armed Forces or, even with the financing model, as in the past, but with the costs and the definition of priorities. For the PCP, the funds of this MPA are too high for armed forces that have a chronic deficit in support, maintenance of equipment and also in recruitment of personnel. Thus, it is necessary to adapt this LPM to the real needs of the country and its economic and financial situation, that is, there are options of military equipment that are needed in the country, such as ocean patrol vessels, but other options, such as the logistics multipurpose ship, whose nature is to design force. The question here is: to project force to where? And at whose service?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u173	NATO and the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u174	NATO? of the common army, in gestation, in the European Union? So, if so, these funds are most needed in the SNS, education or in some of the various projects that the Armed Forces have been amputated or postponed, as we verified in the hearings of military leaders. Without irrespective of a more careful analysis, when we have access and are in possession of capacity sheets and projects with their description and justification, we then leave some of our concerns recorded. With regard to KC-390, regardless of whether we consider that this model adapts to our needs and terms in view of the participation of the national industry in the project, we are concerned, on the one hand, about the consequences of the acquisition of most of Embraer's share capital by American Boeing and, on the other hand, that only two countries — Brazil and Portugal — have expressed interest in the acquisition of this plane.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u176	We have doubts, as I said, concerning the multipurpose logistics ship and, once again to satisfy our participation in multinational forces, we express doubts about the design of the armed helicopter, the Koala, whose configuration in this aspect is unknown and in this sense also the costs are. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : For the CFP, it is not at stake, as I said, the need to re-equip our Armed Forces, giving them the capacity to improve their performance and to carry out the missions that are constitutionally consecrated to them. from that point on, our agreement, as far as we can now understand, with regard to the proposals and programmes included in this programming law, which aim to meet real needs and to meet missions of national interest. On the other hand, we express our doubts about proposals and programmes which, meaning extensive investments to the country, aim essentially to satisfy the interests of third parties and which little or nothing means to defend our country. Therefore, the CFP Parliamentary Group will opt for abstention, with a view to promoting a serious discussion, which deepens and clarifys what priorities our country has in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u177	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Gomes, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u178	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary for National Defence, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: This Military Programming Act is good for the Armed Forces, it is good for the country and it is better for civil society. It is a law that is more friendly to Portuguese and civil society, which guarantees the protection and support of the Portuguese diaspora in the world. It is a law which in its entirety is a qualified job catalyst that promotes export and encourages the specialisation and export capacity of companies in the sector operating in Portugal. This Military Programming Act responds to the responsibilities, needs and demands that a sovereign State, with the history of Portugal, will never be able to refuse. The response to these responsibilities, needs and demands materializes in the distribution, responsible and consistent, of the funds necessary for the continuation of the current and future missions of our Armed Forces. And if the answer is given to our responsibilities, needs and demands, our commitments are also honored. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, approving this law represents a clear option between moving forward or standing in the time of a rapidly changing world. The Socialist Party has complete openness to make this law the best law for the Armed Forces, the best law for the Portuguese, the best law for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u179	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 172 / XIII / 4. the, we turn to the assessment of Petition No 137 / XIII / 1. a ( Committee of Users for the Abolition of Portages in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira ) — for the abolition of tolls in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira, together with the Draft Resolution No 1868 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Abolition of toll rates in A1, Vila Franca de Xira and Alverca. To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Greens, thousands of citizens who, making use of the petition, this important instrument of our democracy, which would like to participate, go to the Assembly of the Republic requesting measures to abolish the tolls in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira. A greeting which, of course, the Greens also intend to extend to the Committee of Users for the abolition of portages in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira, which has stimulated and promoted the petition that we have now discussed and, in particular, to the leaders who today accompany us here. As the petitioners very well point out, the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira is crossed by the national road No 10, thus connecting the different localities of this municipality which, according to the 2011 Censuses, consists of a population of more than 136 000 inhabitants. In addition to this national road, the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira is also served by A1 which, starting from Lisbon, develops along a few tens of kilometres, in an almost continuous urban mesh and which includes, among other locations, the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira, notably Castanheira do Ribatejo, Póvoa de Santa Iria, Alverca and Vila Franca de Xira. It happens that this highway is, as we know, granted to Brisa and is therefore worn, except in the sections near Lisbon and Porto, as is the case with the section between Alverca and Lisboa. Now, The Greens consider that the mobility of this population within their own municipality, but also when it intends to follow in the direction of Lisbon or towards Port, it becomes increasingly difficult and without an alternative that is not by A1 portada itself. in fact, the population feels daily constraints on an absolutely congested national road, with a particular impact on the so-called « peak time », being literally pushed to A1, with the inherent financial costs added by the payment of their toll. This, in fact, makes it impossible for those who have to use this route daily to travel either to work or to school. Thus, the abolition of the tolls in Alverca do Ribatejo and Vila Franca de Xira becomes urgent so that the mobility of the populations, the movement of the vehicles and the environmental quality within these localities, crossed by the national road No 10, are improved and therefore translated into economic gains to the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira itself, which presents no alternatives to this mobility difficulty. For all this, The Greens, through the initiative that brings to the discussion today, propose to the Government that not only consider the abolition of the tolls on the A1 in the whole of Vila Franca de Xira, but also proceed to the construction of the knots of access to the A1 in the Sobralinho and from the Road of Canicoses, in Vialonga. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u181	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, then has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by congratulating the petitioners of Petition No 137 / XIII / 1. the, which provokes the abolition of the tolls in A1 between the piece of Alverca and Vila Franca de Xira and also welcomes the legislative initiative that the Green Party did on this initiative. We agree with the idea of abolishing tolls. In fact, we have defended the same in relation to other highways and highways, especially those that give access to the regions of the interior of the country and which were not previously ported, but have become a result of the very "intelligent" decision of the PSD/CDS government. This decision has caused all vehicles to be pushed onto national roads, increasing road weakness, with which we are all concerned now. Someone who doesn't want to understand why road sinality has increased! By taking this detail in fact, and in this case in particular, I believe that it is not a wise decision to simply abolish the tolls, without dealing with the effect that this could generate from the point of view of congestion on a road with a road profile. Above all, it is not a sensible decision and it is a risk if we do not think about the need to guarantee a corridor of public transport collectives on this highway. The petitioners and the people of Vila Franca rightly complain about the fact that rail transport today is a fully overcrowded transport, as they complain about the congestion that already exists in EN10 itself. The fact that to abolish tolls without ensuring the preferential circulation of public collective transport means that we will simply transfer the problem from EN10 to A1. from the point of view of mobility, especially collective, is not a very good idea! I also believe that it is worth thinking about this decision in conjunction with the construction of the new node in Sobralinho, because this will allow some of the traffic that has to go to Vila Franca and then go back, to the Sobralinho, to decongest some of this traffic in A1. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, being the Block in accordance with the idea and principle, we believe that there must be a specific mobility and movement plan to take care of the movement of public transport and to avoid over-congestion of a road with a motorway profile. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u183	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners on my behalf and on behalf of the CDS and telling them that they are absolutely right to present this petition. And why? Because they believed—unwanted, perhaps—in the promises, which were not to be fulfilled, they were only hunting for the vote, the Prime Minister and the Government of the Socialist Party and, now, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. in an attentive reading of the press, to date, what we read were announcements of toll-ends. I have even brought some newspaper clippings, whose titles, which I'm going to show, are the following: « PS allows to remove tolls inside and in the Algarve »; « António Costa suggests the end of tolls inside »; « Costa suggests, without compromising, end of some tolls»; « António Costa promises to review tolls on the way of the Child ». All this set of promises makes the populations of various regions of the country legitimately ask, then, was it serious or was it only for English to see? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u185	And the CDS, really? Oh, my God! How do you vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u186	Clearly, then, when we look at the budgets and the presentation of the national investment plan or other matters, we have here the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure saying that the previous government has deceived the Portuguese, who wants to review the concession contracts and the former SCUTs. And it came to say that PowerPoint points everything and that now it will be, that they will review the concessions, that they will renegotiate the revenues of PPPs (public-private partnerships) and that they will, of course, reduce, tolls and costs. Question : have VV. For example, any contracts, any renegotiations?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u187	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u188	Do you expect any reduction in the huge PPP bill? Or was this also just a conversation to win votes or to satisfy the leftmost benches?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u190	Clearly, this makes it difficult to reduce tolls. And the government comes again — because it gives priority to voting hunting, which is becoming an electoral committee — to say that there is a reduction of tolls up to 80% in the former SCUT and in low-density territories. Yes, but there are a few sections, such as in A6, which are in low-density territories but where there is no reduction of tolls. That is, there is unequal treatment between Portuguese. I therefore say that we should indeed discuss this matter, but with some seriousness. Of course, how is it financed? What is the new model to finance the costs of highways which, in a rule of law, must be met?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u191	After all, the CDS agrees or disagrees?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u192	It is necessary to find, even, some generational balance, so that future generations, which will also use infrastructure, can contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u193	If that's the case, we have to go ask the dealers for money. Some have already received up to four times more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u194	How do we pay for that? I could say: "Well, let's make a review of the State budget, which is full of proposals for reductions and abolitions of tolls. As the Government has not failed, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party will vote against the Budget..." but nothing of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u195	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u196	Three budgets and none of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u197	And the CDS will withdraw the already scheduled proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u198	The CDS is available to discuss a new PPP financing model, it is available to discuss how we can bear this expenditure assumed by the State, in order to be balanced, fair and respect the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u199	Tell me if you're in favor or against the tolls in Vila Franca!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u200	I'll say more: I've even done a study to find out if it was fair to pretend, and I say it is. It takes Sobralinho's knot and there are necessary alternatives in that region, which is quite congested, which has a good impact on the economy. These are points that should be studied.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u201	Are you in favor or against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u202	The national investment plan is now under discussion and I hope that the government will be available to find solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u203	But tell me if you're in favor or if you're against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u204	Do you know how much the toll costs in Vila Franca de Xira? It costs 3 cents per kilometer! We could abolish them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u205	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u206	I will finish, Mr. President. Given a principle of equality, I ask: what can we tell the populations of Porto that pay 7 cents per kilometre? And those of Vila Real, who also pay 7 cents?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u207	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u208	And those of Aveiro, who pay 8 cents? And those of Faro, who pay nine cents? And Leiria's, what do you pay for nine cents? Not to mention my district, which has tolls all around! Are we going to give a benefit only to a part of the population and not to everyone? I think it would be good if we could all find a new model of equity, balanced and for the whole country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u209	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u210	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the petitioners from the Committee of Users for the abolition of portages in A1, in the Vila Franca de Xira Council, present in the galleries. The PCP accompanies this fair claim from the populations of Vila Franca de Xira. We are talking about a municipality in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, where more than 136 000 people live, many of them using A1 every day to be able to move to their places of work. Since A1 is the motorway connecting the two largest cities in the country, it is a very important road to national cohesion. But, in addition to this national character, in the Lisbon region, this motorway also has a very important road to link populations, which justifies that A1 is not carried in the municipality of Loures and in part of Vila Franca de Xira, to Alverca. So what the Committee on Users is asking for is nothing extravagant. This route is now considered as the main route of access, without a viable alternative, to Alverca. The petitioners ask that this consideration be extended to the limit of Vila Franca de Xira. The question is: does this enlargement make sense or not? To answer that question, we must not fail to analyze demographic changes in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. To have adequate housing, many populations were pushed into more peripheral areas of the region. Also with the destruction of the industry, many Alverquenses, Vila-Franquenses and Castanheirs had to seek work downstream of their lands.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u212	The pendulum movements began to cover a much wider area of that territory, which is now of continuous urban mesh. As pointed out in the draft resolution of The Greens, the diversion of traffic to the national road No 10, which passes within the cities of Alverca and Vila Franca, produces traffic congestion on the national road, degradation of the road and air quality. The end of these tolls and also the construction of the access knots of Sobralinho and Vialonga would be important to take traffic to the national road No 10 and inside these localities, with environmental gains and also road safety, in addition to the importance of this measure for companies and for the economic development of the municipality. This applies both to A1 and to the other examples, which have been given here, of the tolls that should be removed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, next to Spain, where many fast roads are already free, it was announced in June last year that more than 1000 km of motorway would no longer have tolls, since it did not cease to have the opposition of the former dealers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u213	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u214	This way, we stand still and sometimes in contravention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u215	It's the sense of progress!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u216	We continue with road concessions that increase the profits of multinationals, such as Brisa, at the expense of the state, which is called to pay when needed works, and at the expense of users, who pay every day, at very high prices. The State, as a grantor, has every right to call into question these Leonine concessions, which are detrimental to the national interest, the economy and the mobility of the population. At the same time with the strengthening of the supply and quality of public transport, road and rail, with lower prices, it is a matter of elementary justice that finally fulfils this legitimate aspiration to cease to have tolls on the A1 in the entire municipality of Vila Franca de Xira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u217	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, of course, the subscribers of Petition No 137 / XIII / 1a, whose number exceeds 5000. however, subscriptions could be 50 000 or 100 000. I also welcome the legislative initiative of the Green Party. This petition addresses a common problem for many years now, because in 1961 there was the construction of the first stretch of motorway that called Lisbon to Vila Franca de Xira, a total of 25 km, thus facilitating the lives of people who make this journey daily and making it safer and without the constraints sensed in crossing the national road no. 10, which have worsened over the last decades. Given that this area has become particularly attractive for the location of large businesses and housing, the inhabitants on 31 December 2017 were 141 227. A few years ago, the toll square in Sacavém was removed, having been transferred to Alverca do Ribatejo, passing the Alverca-Lisboa section to not require any payment to thousands of daily users. In this decision of amendment, there was a differentiated treatment for a part of the inhabitants of the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira, more specifically for the northern part of the municipality, facing the south. It should be noted that the territory of Vila Franca de Xira municipality weighs more than a dozen servants, which strongly condition mobility. Services that result largely from services to the country and to the great Lisbon, as is the case with the high voltage lines, of the suppliers of EPAL (Portuguese Free Waters Company, S.A. ) , which supply Lisbon and the neighbouring areas of the aeronautical service, military service, national road No 10, in addition to the servos resulting from the RAN (National Agricultural Reserve), the REN ( National Ecological Reserve ), the Tejo River and its areas of full bed and broad leisure, among others. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the municipal chamber and the various political forces have made efforts yesterday and today to improve mobility without, until today, having achieved great results. But whoever perfies always achieves. within the framework of the National Investment Programme, the Government has seen a set of interventions aimed, from the beginning, to improve mobility in the northern part of Lisbon, with the construction of the variant to the national road No. 10 in Alverca do Ribatejo and with the development of public transport systems of light metro and metrobus, from Loures to the station of Póvoa de Santa Iria, to highlight two of the most important, in addition to the construction of a new railway line between Alverca and Azambuja. It should also be noted that the amendments that have been claimed for decades and that, finally, thanks to this government, will be felt at the cost of transport passes from April onwards, will cover the whole of Vila France de Xira municipality in the same way — which does not happen until today — increasing the use of public transport and combating environmental liabilities resulting from the excessive use of individual transport. They will say that it is not enough, but in good rigour, it is already a great step in a path that needs to continue to be made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u219	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: Vila Franca de Xira municipality is served by the national road No 10, via highly congested. This route crosses the various localities of the municipality, namely three cities—Póvoa de Santa Iria, Alverca and Vila Franca de Xira— and serves about 140,000 residents. The municipality is still crossed by the motorway, the A1, also in a state of saturation, given that it is the main national road axis and the only alternative to the national road No 10. In addition to the population and road traffic pressure, there is a very large number of companies in the industrial and logistics area, which daily leads to the crossing of the municipality by thousands of heavy vehicles, which makes the lives of the populations living there in a daily hell, with serious limitations to their mobility. For this reason, it is planned to build, a few years ago, two knots of access, the Sobralinho knot and the Canicços knot, while still, the variants to Alverca and Vila Franca de Xira are planned. Also in Póvoa de Santa Iria was about to carry out the link to the IC2, which connects Lisbon to the Expo. These works have long been promised, but it takes time to get out of the paper. I would also like to recall that the A1 enlargement works were carried out many years ago, in the time of a PSD government, the then Government of Prof. Cavaco Silva, and the tolls of then, in which the counter began to count from Sacavem, were withdrawn, moving to Alverca. They were then benefited—and well! — the population of the south of the municipality, which ceased to pay tolls. That was the only government to date that ended with tolls in the Lisbon region. In short, being all political forces, at local level, according to the needs of more and better accessibility and better road transport, and being socialist governance at a time when there are numerous infrastructure projects - I would say even that this is an orgy of public investment - will not be too much to remember the honourable Members. Members of the strong and indelible support of the CFP, the BE and the Greens to this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u221	Unbelievable? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u222	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u223	... not only in political-parliamentary terms but also in terms of budgetary support. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] For this reason, the PSD has enormous hopes that this issue of accessibility and mobility in Vila Franca de Xira will be resolved urgently and, as such, a reality is the abolition of the tolls in Alverca and Vila Franca de Xira. If this plan is not implemented, we can only conclude that, once again, management is lying to the Portuguese, in this particular case to the citizens of Vila Franca de Xira. They promise, they claim, they claim, they promise again when they're in opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u224	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u225	...and forget what they promised when they were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u226	They're even screaming now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be any different from this that the Minister who is making this orgy of advertisements is the same as he does not, who promises and leaves. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u228	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-23.u229	He's leaving the government cast and entering the election auction. in these circumstances, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's in your hands. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President : - Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's agenda. I should like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will take place tomorrow, Thursday, beginning at 3 p.m. First of all, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, a current debate will take place, required by the CDS-PP, on the General Deposit Box. The joint assessment of the Draft Resolution No 1807 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal and the Draft Laws Nos 1059 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — 3. the amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January (Regulates the entry into the judiciary, the formation of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the judicial study centre ), incorporating an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and 1064 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. of the third point is the assessment of the Bill No. 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network. of the fourth point is the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government redequate the construction project of Alvito Dam, in a multi-use logic of water and 1124 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust a feasibility study of the Barrage do Alvito, as a use of multiple purposes, including the hypothesis of its construction in its maximum quota. Fifthly, Parliamentary Assessments No 68 / XIII / 4 will be discussed. a ( PCP ) and 67 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July establishing the legal regime of inclusive education. of the sixth point is the assessment of Petition No 138 / XIII / 1a ( Eradication of Poverty Movement ) — Calls for a debate by the Assembly of the Republic on poverty eradication. Finally, from the last point of the agenda there is the assessment of Petition No 189 / XIII / 2a (Call Center Workers' Union) — Regulation of the professional activity of worker of Call Center, in order to be considered as a profession of rapid wear. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 39 minutes.]]
