ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. I begin by congratulating all of you, hoping that you have had a great holiday and that you are in full election campaign. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start our work by reading some file. Mr. Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted, Law No 209 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers, transposing EU Directive 2016 / 2341, which falls to 5. the Commission. The following draft resolutions were also entered in the Bureau: paragraphs 2274 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Tunisia ; No 2275 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ; No 2276 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Greece ; and No 2277 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome. I also announce the withdrawal by the Government of the Bill No 195 / XIII / 4. a — Approves the status of the former fighter. I must also take into account the expiry of the procedure relating to the assessment of Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career[ Parliamentary evaluations No 115 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 123 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 125 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u3	Mrs. Members, we immediately turn to the first item on the agenda of our meeting with the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 333 / XIII — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2009 of 14 July establishing the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the message is as follows: « I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree under heading as follows: 1 — The guarantee of the protection of personal data, processed within the judicial system, must respect the constitutional areas for the exercise of functions of the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office. 2 — The responsibilities of the supervisory authorities with regard to the processing of personal data in judicial proceedings shall ensure that in the internal legal order of Regulation ( EU ) No 2016 / 679 of Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, in respect of the specific areas of functions of the courts, in the exercise of the jurisdictional function, and of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the performance, with autonomy of their procedural functions and competences. 3 — in this way, the supervisory authority and the coordinating authority, which requires them to be independent, must follow a model which will enable them to implement the exception provided for in Article 23. Article 55, paragraph 1 ( f ) and Article 55. Regulation ( EU ) No 2016 / 679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, paragraph 3. 4 — In short, none of the authorities concerned may translate an organisation which does not comply with the rules of European law by way of a sign consistent with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. 5 — I hereby return, without promulgation, Decree No 333/ XIII — Second Amendment to Law No 34/2009 of 14 July 2009 laying down the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system, so that the Assembly of the Republic may, as such, carry out its review, taking into account the amendments corresponding to the guarantee of non-interference in specific areas of jurisdiction and the Public Prosecutor in the exercise of its procedural functions and powers. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the second point of our agenda, which is made up of political statements. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at a time when the Portuguese are about to make choices about the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, The Greens consider it relevant to note that in this legislature, progress has been promoted, for which the Greens Ecological Party was decisive, advances that put an end to a policy pursued by previous governments, including the PS, but above all by the previous Government of the PSD / CDS, which determined that the impoverishment of the Portuguese was a condition for the country to improve and that it was committed to de-investment in very important sectors. It has been proved in this legislature that inevitability is a lie to the extent of political interests and that what is needed is to make political options for citizens to be respected and to have better living conditions. For this reason, the Greens Ecological Party has contributed to the rejection and increase of revenues cut off by the PSD/CDS government and if they take steps to combat poverty and unemployment. But the Greens Ecological Party has not left out of the joint position, signed with the PS — and the PS has accepted it, because it needed us, a set of decisive measures to ensure better conditions for sustainable development and better environmental standards. For example, for the necessary process of mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the Greens required a paradigm change in two key and structural areas: forest and public transport. in the transport sector, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to ensure greater connection in the territory and also the right to mobility of populations, we demand that a rail closure policy be abandoned and that the investment that has long been abandoned in the railway be planned and implemented. It is a work that needs to ensure and intensify and that the Green Party considers it to be a priority, requiring investment in lines such as the Douro, the West, Cascais, or the Alentejo. The improvement in public transport supply has marked, and will mark, the Greens agenda and we have contributed much in this legislature to reduce the price of social passes, which we want to see implemented throughout the country. in the forest sector, we worked towards the end of the famous law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, of the responsibility of the former PSD government / CDS. It was a requirement of the Ecological Party « The Greens », right at the beginning of the legislature, to halt the growth of the crude monocultures of the eucalyptus, to diversify the settlement of our forest with the expansion of native species, with gains in biodiversity and in the security of the territory against the greatest spread of forest fires. This country lived the tragic dimension of the 2017 fires and realized the result of the error made, during decades of PSD, PS and CDS governments, in giving our forest almost exclusively to the interests of the celluloses. The Greens Ecological Party has worked hard for more nature surveillance, to provide the country with more means of monitoring and combating pollution, particularly industrial, for the protection of wild fauna, to strengthen the response given by the animal collection centres, for the withdrawal of asbestos in public buildings, for the reduction of disposable plastic consumption, to favour local consumption of food goods, for less intensive agricultural production, among so many other issues. Could-CL have advanced further in this legislature? Yes, it was possible, the country had the ability to do so. With the resources available to the country it was possible to have gone further, if, for example, the bank did not let itself suck so many public resources, or if the PS had not preferred to put the deficit even below what was planned, instead of investing in the fight against other deficits that directly affect people's lives, particularly in the areas of education, health, transport and culture. in the same way, we have verified that there are errors, that PS wants to commit, that need to be stopped, such as: the location of an airport in Montijo ; the search for hydrocarbons in the area of Battle and Pombal ; the proliferation of olive and superintensive peanuts; or the exploitation of lithium in sensitive areas. The Greens Ecological Party will be a voice of denunciation and vehement challenge to these environmental attacks. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now necessary to ensure that there is no back-up of what has been gained in favour of the country and that it is necessary to work for what has yet to be conquered, but, in order to move forward, it is necessary to allow the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic. PSD and CDS only contribute to backwards...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u5	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, PSD and CDS only contribute to shrinking, and the PS, with an absolute majority, does not hesitate to retreat. These are scenarios that the country has already experienced and that have not produced good results. from the Greens Ecological Party, we ensure that we will always be part of the progress, in an active and constructive way, to generate greater sustainability in development, to ensure more environmental and social justice. With determination and confidence we will always contribute to progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u7	For a political declaration, I have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last four years have shown that the exploitation of workers' and people's rights is the key to our development and progress. All the achievements achieved in the rights of workers and the people, from the largest to the smallest, were important elements of greater social justice and proved to be a driving force behind improving living conditions, economic growth, job creation and strengthening social security. The CFP is proud of the decisive role it has played in all of them and of the struggle it has waged for it to go further. The country does not have its serious structural problems resolved, but has stagnated some of its most serious social chagas and the recovery of rights and incomes also allowed the recovery of hope in the future. We know that there are those who do not comply with the advances achieved by the workers and the people and are looking for the first opportunity to move back all that has been achieved, taking up the policy of impoverishment and exploitation with which, for years, the lives of the Portuguese have been infernified. The idea of an absolute majority of PS fits these plans and projects and you have to give it a fight. It is in the hands of the Portuguese that the decision to prevent an absolute majority and to create, yes, a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic which guarantees the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that the country obviously needs, with the greatest influence of the PCP and the CDU in national decisions. When we say this, it is not an abstract appeal or desire; it is an objective necessity to ensure that the path is forward rather than backward. And it is not even necessary to wait for the result of the elections to prove the danger of this backwardness. See what's going on with the free school textbooks: the legislature has not finished yet, and the PS government is already trying to empty the measure, opening the way for it to go back to what was conquered. This is one of the measures of greater social scope taken in this legislature, a measure that allowed all children, daughters of the rich or poor, to be treated on an equal footing, all entitled to a free school textbook. by imposing the reuse of the manuals, even in school cycles where it was already known that this could only cause problems, and by waving to schools with financial incentives to make the maximum reuse, even if this meant delivering to new manual students at risk or unused, the PS government actually created the conditions for this measure of such great value to begin to be the target of criticism, opening the door to which, in the future, goes behind this conquest. from the PCP, we do not silence our criticism and indignation and reaffirm: it was not for this that the freeness of school textbooks was approved. The PS Government has an obligation to ensure that all children and young people have a free manual delivery regime in order to be used, without forcing parents to buy new manuals because those who were delivered free are unused. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The workers and the people greatly appreciate the achievements achieved in these four years, but do not silence their dissatisfaction with problems that continue to be resolved and expectations that have yet to be fulfilled, from working rights to health, from culture to housing or the environment. And they can recognize the differences between what it costs to defend and see respect for their rights and the facilities with which bandages and mordomas are granted to the large economic and financial groups. The recent news about the operation of banks, which for years have bottled the credit conditions, to the detriment of Portuguese and the national economy, is one of the examples of these injustices that persist and with which it is necessary to break. Regardless of the outcome of the action of the Competition Authority, it cannot be accepted that a wall of difficulties will always arise when it comes to defending those who work, at the same time as the bank and large economic groups are allowed with ease and impunity. It is not acceptable that arguments such as the one in the crisis — whether real or fictional — arise whenever it comes to meeting the expectations of workers and the people, when they fight for better wages and pensions, for better public services, for better living conditions, while, for the bank and for large economic groups, there seems never to be an obstacle to the unacceptable practices and conditions in which they continue to accumulate profits. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we say that we need to move forward and not go back, we do so with the notion of the problems that the country faces and the certainty that the way to pursue is really that, to move forward. To step forward, decisively, in solving the main problems of the country that remain postponed. To advance in deepening the rights and living conditions of workers and the people and to remove the dangers of any claim to return to the policies of impoverishment and aggravated exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u10	To advance what needs to be done for the development of the country, for the rights of workers and the people, in the sense of the patriotic and left-wing alternative policy that ensures these objectives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u11	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the last meeting of this Parliament, it is necessary to make a balance sheet for the last four years and, with democratic transparency, to say what it proposes for the future of the country. We've heard here say, and we'll continue to hear, the theory of the end of austerity, the return of incomes and that everything is, and it's okay. Thus, once again, the difference between the country of the majority of the left and the real country: one, decrees the end of austerity; the other — the real country — survives with the greatest tax burden ever and the smallest public investment there is memory. Today, and with the return of incomes that in 2011 the former PS government forced to cut, the Portuguese can even see more money in receipt, but they also know that they pay more indirect taxes than ever and have worse public services than four years ago. They pay more indirect taxes on petrol and gas, with the overtax of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products), than the CDS so often proposed that it would end, but on which, as so many times happened in this Legislation, at the last hour, PCP and Left Block gave the PS to stay. They have the worst public services, where seizures, retentions, delays, drawer vetos or delays, or what they want to call them, Mrs and Mrs. Members, they affect many Portuguese daily, who pay, in taxes, what the State does not provide in services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u14	in transport, where, at the same time that, and well, the value of social passes is reduced, do not take care to predict the obvious increase in demand with the increase in supply, so today, we see, a little throughout the country, boats that do not leave, buses that do not exist and trains that, when they do not remain without the engine, they delay, again and again, daily.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u16	So today, many Portuguese people who want to work, young people who want to find a better job and older people who need to go to the consultations they have marked for months cannot, because they simply stay on the ground because they do not have transportation. in education, where there are still many schools that have not been re-qualified as planned and was announced, and others that close when they worked well and had students, for the simple reason that they have an association contract that this government and this majority do not like; where there are fosters that are missing when there are vacancies in the social or private sector; where there are free school textbooks that have been promised, but that, at the start of classes, or are not available or are not able to be reused. in health, where, despite the efforts of professionals, there are hospitals that do not have specialists to give consultations, doctors or nurses to make emergencies, material to be used in treatments, due to lack of payment to suppliers, or facilities worthy of the users. in the areas of sovereignty, where EUR 7 million is saved not to do justice to the former combatants, the Armed Forces with the least effective of all and the security forces without minimum conditions to exercise their functions - without cars to patrol, with teams and barracks to fall and laws that, often, instead of protecting them, are still the first to mistrust them, not even the first to judge. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In an internal and external context, the mandate of the PS and this majority was a missed opportunity. It was a small mandate: a mandate for small economic growth, small exports, small reforms, little use of Community funds. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal has grown—and so well! But it has grown far less than it could and should, taking into account, not only this context, such as comparison with other countries that were in similar conditions to ours — and that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's bad, very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u18	The CDS has a different view and an alternative with five essential goals for the country. The first, and most important, is to free families and companies from the greatest tax burden ever. On the basis of the macroeconomic scenario presented by the government, validated by the European Union and which even the government qualifies as a conservative, it is possible to use the budget surplus — the product of the effort and the sacrifices of all of us — to reduce debt and reduce taxes. Phased, gradually and responsibly, it is possible to reduce the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) from all Portuguese by 2023, and the IRC (tax on income of legal persons) within six years, up to 12, 5 % of Ireland, making us a fairer country, pressing on those who work and with a stronger economy in an increasingly global and competitive market. But also, secondly, it is important to provide conditions for building a family life project for all Portuguese, realizing that each family is, in itself, a unique and distinct reality and that therefore must have freedom of choice. It is therefore necessary for parental leave to be extended and flexible among family members. Thirdly, it is also necessary to make the country more competitive, reforming the education system, giving parents and students greater freedom to choose their schools and their way, and revolutionizing vocational training, adapting it to the real needs of our industry and the digital economy. Fourthly, it is important not to forget to care for those in need, to care for those who are sick, or to care for or care for others, and that throughout all these years has been so mistreated. We must have a health system focused on the patient and not on the provider, without ideological prejudices, that sees the SNS (National Health Service) as the center of the whole system, but that it is a more decentralized SNS, which includes social and private sectors, and with more equitable conditions of access to health. It is not understood, no one realizes why a system that works well, that it is no longer a counterbalance of a function, that it is voluntary and that it is paid with discounts, such as ADSE (Assistance to the Disease of the State Civil Servants ), has to be exclusively for some — those who work in the State — but cannot be for others — all those who work in private. We do not believe in a system for two different countries — one public and one private — and we do not believe for one reason only: it is not fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u20	That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and finally, that we want a strong state in the functions of sovereignty, in the security forces, in the Armed Forces, which effectively combats corruption, which responds to the effects of the PSP (PSP) and the GNR (National Republican Guard), which are systematically and chronologically deficient. If so, we will have, not a country of lost opportunity, not a small country, but a bigger country, better and, above all, fairer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u21	For a political statement, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have been able to prove, the election campaign is going outside, but it is not about it that we want to take advantage of this meeting. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u23	We want to take advantage of this meeting to note the great concern that the European Commission's proposal for composition causes us. Not only are the names of the candidates presented, it is also the reorganization of the folders and responsibilities that tell us that the hard line of extreme right, starred by Viktor Orbán, has gained power within the new Commission, as it has already become clear, since the appointment of its current President. If this proposal is adopted by the European Parliament, there will be a committee in the European Commission called, and I quote « Protecting our way of life in Europe ». The title is wrong and worrying. It is wrong, because Europe is not under threat, nor does it share a single way of life. And it is worrying, because it is the recovery of old expressions of European xenophobic movements, in the best style of Marine Le Pen. One could still argue that by means of « lifestyle» the European Commission designates some kind of concern with well-being, with wages or the social state, but nothing like that. This is even the folder of migration control and what is intended is not to protect our lifestyle, is to prevent other people from accessing it. It has then gained in Europe the cruel vision that makes the Mediterranean a cemetery and Europe a fortress. But the new presidency of the European Commission presents us with other bizarres, disguised as sound names. The dossier of Democracy and Demography — I repeat, Democracy — is handed over to a Croatian Commissioner, allied with the Hungarian Government against the sanctions imposed by the European Parliament for violating European values in matters of migration and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u24	It's xenophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u25	In other words, such protection of the European way of life has therefore begun to contemplate the reward for politicians and governments that violate human rights. It proves this is the promotion of the Minister of Justice of the Government of Orbán to the President of the Commission for Neighbourhood and Enlargement — and we are talking about the directly responsible for the policies that call into question the principles of separation of powers in Hungary — a Minister of a Government who, according to the report of the European Parliament, persecuted migrants, refugees and minorities, such as the gypsies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not possible to express general concerns about human rights and democracy and to ignore the spectacle of horrors set up on this European stage, to which they also join « ghosts of last Christmas». Ironic is just an euphemism, if we want to comment on the allocation of a folder called, and I quote, « An economy that works for the People» to Valdis Dombrovskis, the Commissioner who defended that Portugal should be punished and lose structural funds for not having applied enough austerity. And what about the delivery of the folder under the name 'Green Investment Plan' to an enthusiast of austerity like Frans Timmermans? The proposal is bad for Portugal and bad for Europe. And it is wrong to think that the presence of Elisa Ferreira in this group will make the difference that counts. The problem is not personal, far from it, the problem is political. Firstly, because we have learned for a long time that institutions are worth more than people: Elisa Ferreira will not change the European Commission, just as Mário Centeno did not change the Eurogroup. No Portuguese Commissioner is worth the political validation of this new Commission and of everything it represents politically. Secondly, because the presence of a Portuguese in the Cohesion portfolio does not in itself guarantee more funds for this objective, nor will Portugal benefit from this fund allocation process. Thirdly, because the folder of cohesion is not just called Cohesion; it is called Cohesion and Reforms. And we know where this is going to stop: Europe is preparing to create conditionality mechanisms for the allocation of cohesion funds. Not only do we decide less and less where we can invest these funds, as we will increasingly depend on what they call "structural reforms for the allocation of funds". And we all know what this means: privatization, degradation of labour rights, financial liberalization, austerity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago, there was one who spoke to us of a European Renaissance, the fruit of an alliance between socialist and liberal parties on the right, such as Macron. It was not necessary to wait long enough to see what is in fact reborn with the support of that same alliance between socialists and liberals: the extreme right at the heart of the European institutions and to dominate their policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u27	It is now clear from this scenario in the European Union how each party will vote in the European Parliament on this proposal for the composition of the new European Commission. It is also important to know whether in particular the Socialist Party will maintain its support for the new President of the European Commission. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u28	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, and on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I congratulate all Members on their commitment, energy and, above all, on their enthusiasm for their role in the Assembly of the Republic, in favour of the Portuguese people, in response to the legitimate will of the voters, in the challenges of the increasingly demanding Portuguese political life. on our part, we will not turn away from these designs, but we will strengthen the momentum, willingness and desire, basically, the enthusiasm to do more and better in the Portuguese sovereignty body than legislates for the citizens and controls the democratically elected governments on behalf of the Portuguese. Unless one month of the elections, it is worth remembering, however, the past to talk about the future. We have come here with undeniable results, because we have drawn up a good government programme and have fulfilled its implementation without failures and without false promises. [[PSD laughter.]] We set firm goals, based on serious and competent diagnoses, and we did everything we could to reach them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u30	We have always been guardians of credibility and compliance with the promises made. Mr President, there are those who today want to "put on feet" to collect electoral dividends, but these, I remember, are the same ones who have always stood aside from meeting the goals, the deficit and the correction of imbalances. For these, the way was to propose much and everything at the same time. But we weren't in that song. We endured and resisted, because we knew that the recovery of the country's credibility was indispensable for us to gain confidence not only from Portuguese but also from European institutions and investors. For this reason, we did not build unrealistic budgets or define unattainable goals. We made four budgets for four years. We did not make any corrective budget, even with all the surprises that came out of the closet of the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u32	We have fulfilled the Government Programme and have achieved all the goals presented, including the correction of the imbalances that the country supported in 2015 and also the delivery of income. in the noise of the pre-campaign for October 2019, it seems that the current government solution was designed to think about the Block of Left and PCP, as if the Portuguese longed for forced collection of the means of production, with mass expropriations and nationalizations in catadupa. [[PSD and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u33	You've got too much sun on your vacation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u34	We all know we don't. This was, yes, the path found, taking into account, above all, the extreme need to show that there was an alternative to the colossal increase in taxes and the lack of incentives to the economy, which exacerbated budgetary imbalances and mistreated the citizens, all promoted by the Portuguese right. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u35	So let this be clear: we have done what we have done to think about the Portuguese and never to think about the Left Block, which continues to want to nationalize everything that moves and breaks with Europe, even if it has already said it very timidly and even, if you imagine, social-democrat.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u36	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u37	We are not ashamed of any part of the results obtained, because we know that it is not possible to do everything at the same time and do everything right for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u38	Please, keep going! Don't give up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u39	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is aware that we have to do more and there are many issues that we need to do better. however, all Portuguese know that politics requires choices and that, by doing so, there is always someone or something that does not benefit so much, but that, with us, does not stay behind or is forgotten. [[PSD laughter.]] We need more strength and there is a need for fewer impediments, fewer barriers that cross the reformist will of the Socialist Party to reach all in a just way, without generating imbalances, maintaining economic growth and consolidating credibility. The country is more prepared, because it took control of its debt and paid historically low interest. The country grows above the European Union average and has stagnated unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u41	No external crisis will make the country return to tax rise or galloping unemployment, but no one can forget that we arrived here after we were at the gates of hell in 2015, in a long purgatory that the Portuguese do not forget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u42	You must be wrong! It was in 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u43	Therefore, the way to the future cannot be to return to the past, but to strengthen the present, giving strength to the party who has been able to turn the page of austerity with rigour and demands.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u45	Mr President, if today we have more employment, more investment, more exports and more wealth, if today we have more income, less taxes, less debt and a surplus history of public accounts, it is because we have fulfilled what we promise and, above all, we do not allow to intoxicate a programme that generated incalculable gains of credibility and confidence in the markets and also in Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u46	It's just lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u47	We are not, therefore, at the end of the road. We're about to start a new stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u49	What we need is to have more strength, to get more support to make Portugal stronger.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u50	What about Alentejo? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u51	What we really need is to be able to rule without obstacles,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u52	Here it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u53	...to prevent, with all our strength, the return of austerity, the colossal increase in taxes, the myth that the increase in wages causes unemployment, the failed forecasts, the 'Old People of the Rest' who treat the devil for 'you' and who pose threats from Europe against the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u54	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u55	Mr President, I conclude by saying that there are no perfect results, but there are irrefutable facts: it was the PS Programme, designed by the PS and implemented by the PS Government that recovered the country and was the dialectic of the devil who always tried to stop the end of austerity and compromise the state of the nation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u56	I have the floor to conclude this point of political declarations, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I welcome all of you. Members, commending the work that has been done here during this Parliament, and I also mean that no one will apply the label « impetuous ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u58	All of you. Members were very important in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u59	You guys didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u60	But with the socialists in the government, the Portuguese know well what awaits them: bankruptcy and bankruptcy! With José Socrates, it was bankruptcy in public finances and the despair of Portuguese; with Antonio Costa, it has been bankruptcy in public services and the insecurity of Portuguese. To each other, unites them with this unsatisfied plan to launch the greatest strikes in the present and the greatest uncertainties about the future of Portugal and the Portuguese. in the case of José Socrates, what followed were years of sacrifice and bitterness imposed by the troika; in the case of António Costa, most Portuguese already know the cost of socialist illusions. It is a cost that becomes clear, first and foremost, at the maximum increase in taxes, especially those that blindly overburden the poor and rich.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u62	One government has never paid so much tax money and one government has never allowed so much public services to be degraded that it should serve its citizens. There was an unacceptable degradation of the working conditions of the courts, which, still recently, was denounced by judges of various districts, and a persistent degradation in public transport, where human and material resources are lacking, frustrating professionals and users. There is an intolerable incapacity on the part of social security services, which do not guarantee early the allocation of pensions to which this right was constituted with work and with the discounts of life. There was a worrying devaluation of public education, where, contrary to promises, the number of employees or the number of accommodation at affordable prices remains scarce, and where teachers continue to be in open war against this government. All this leaves the Portuguese insecure. It is a tragic, fatal insecurity, as happened two years ago, with the great fires that have reaped the lives of hundreds more people. It is a maximum insecurity, desperate, as it is happening in public health services. Failure! This is the word that best summarizes the governance of António Costa, with regard to the National Health Service. It is a failure that translates into dissatisfaction and protest, as never before seen, of the different professional groups: doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, pharmacists. It is, above all, a failure that is seen by the brutal increase of patients on the waiting list for consultations and surgeries, and many of them have been desperate for years. It is a painful failure, when patients with cancer are denied access to the treatment they need, since, of course, the government now wants to extend, too, to hundreds of thousands of public servants. Miserable! It is the insensitivity of the government to multiply. It is still a failure that gets naked when the reasons for increasing infant mortality in 2018 are not explained, with the death of more than 60 children, than in 2017. This disastrous situation can worsen much in 2019, in the face of the disorganization and closure of maternity in district capitals. We've arrived in the district capitals! The question is as follows: what is the reason for this widespread failure, created by the Government of Antonio Costa, in our National Health Service, which is no longer universal, as the Constitution says, and is increasingly reduced to minimal responses? The explanation can only be this: the current rulers believed, at a certain point, that the question of Portuguese health was resolved with announcements and good promises. You're wrong! The Portuguese, from Bragança to Faro, demand to know why investments were not made in new buildings and modern health equipment. The Portuguese, especially those who reside in the Lisbon region, but not only want to know where the promised family doctors are. The Portuguese of Sintra, Seixal, Algarve, Évora and Madeira — I repeat, Madeira, Member of the Socialist Party — ask for the new hospitals that the government promised four years ago but did not. Portuguese families do not accept that the number of beds for continuous and palliative care remains so low in the face of growing needs. Apart from all this, how can we understand the grueling shortage of essential medicines in Community pharmacies? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been promised and little has been done in the field of health, as in other areas, in these four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u64	Failure, illusion and disorganization is the sad trilogy that characterizes the way António Costa governed public services in Portugal. Frustration, insecurity and injustice is the sad trilogy that expresses the feelings of the Portuguese, who deserved more than one government that was overtaxing. Such a government, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be penalized!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u65	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. So we are sure that, on 6 October, the Portuguese, well aware of the evils and failures of the socialist government, will choose another way and another policy. We have urgent solutions to ensure a better future for all, for all Portuguese without exception and not just for some, as has happened, unfortunately, over the course of these years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u67	We shall move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of votes. Let us begin by voting vote No 872 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Alexandre Soares dos Santos, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on August 16, at the age of 84, the businessman and philanthropist Alexandre Soares dos Santos. Born in Porto, in 1934, Elisio Alexandre Soares dos Santos attended the Lisbon Law School, which left to start his professional career abroad, returning to Portugal in 1968 to take on the leadership of Jerónimo Martins, transforming it into one of the largest Portuguese business groups, with great importance in countries such as Brazil and Poland. In 2009, he created the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation, in honor of his grandfather, the way chosen by him and his family to study the great national problems and to bring them to the knowledge of civil society, where he revealed his concern for the future of Portugal, as well as showed a huge spirit of public service and social support that contributed much to the development of our country. Since early on, it has played a significant role in the Portuguese economy, society and culture. Recognized by his strong personality and by his remarkable presence that did not leave anyone indifferent, Alexandre Soares dos Santos was one of the most emblematic entrepreneurs in the last 50 years in Portugal and, as a patron, someone who took seriously the employer's social responsibility. His efforts, along with that of all the workers in his group, have contributed greatly to the Portuguese economy, which will remain forever with his indelible brand, and the country with the inheritance of one of the great national business groups. The Assembly of the Republic regrets the disappearance of Alexandre Soares dos Santos and presents the most heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and workers, recognizing the importance of their legacy for the national economy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The following vote No 875/ XIII/4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by a PS Member and a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u70	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of Judge Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira, President of the Council of Peace Judges on 23 July at the age of 82. Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira was born in Lisbon in 1937. Degreed in Law, he devoted his entire career to the judiciary, having served as Judge Secretary of the Higher Council of Justice ( 1979 ), Law Judge( 1985 ) and Judge Disembargeor at the Evora Court ( 1988 ), Judge Disembargeor at the Lisbon Court ( 1990 ), Judge Desembargeor ( 1993 ), and Judge Counsellor at the Supreme Court of Justice ( 1993 ). Between 1990 and 1993, he was President of the Lisbon Court of Relations, assuming the Presidency of the Supreme Court of Justice between 1998 and 2001. Author of various published works—such as Guide of Resources in Civil Process ( Coimbra Editora, 2014 ), Judges of Peace ( Coimbra Editora, 2014 ), Justice of Peace - Judges of Peace ( Coimbra Editora, 2005 ) or Civil Process ( King of Books, 1997 ) — was Professor Professor Professor Guest of Lusíada University since October 2001, where he served as a teacher at the Faculty of Law. In 2001 Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira was invited to preside over the Council of the Peace Courts, an office which had been exercised in an exemplary manner, with unquestionable commitment and dedication, from the VIII legislature and until his death, designated by successive choice of five Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic. Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira was one of the biggest promoters of the alternative dispute resolution, having long been beaten by the creation of a partnership between the state and the authorities able to bring justice to citizens, due to him the network of peace judges that the country knows and the success of its implementation. at the time of his death, and because entirely fair, it is due to him profound recognition for his service to Portugal and the Portuguese. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its regret at the death of Jaime Octávio Cardona Ferreira, addressing his family and friends the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u71	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We passed to Vote No 877 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of Jorge Leite, who will be read by Ms. Secretary of Bureau Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u72	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last August 24th, Jorge Leite. Portugal inherits Jorge Leite the work of the distinguished lawyer and the testimony of the citizen immensely solidarity. He was recognized as a pioneer and a higher name of the affirmation of Labour Law in Portugal, his teacher at the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra and his cultor in a pedagogical and civic relationship always available with unions, workers' associations and movements to defend the rights of precarious people. His academic work has always articulated the jurist's rigor with the ethical and political imperative of valuing men and women workers. Its inspiration is due to many of the legislative solutions for the consecration and protection of workers'rights in Portugal. It was a remarkable citizen of democracy in our country, who opposed public intervention with generosity and simplicity. He was a member of the I and II legislatures elected by the CFP and chaired the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. He was a permanent and dedicated collaborator of the union movement, a member of the Centre on Crisis and Alternatives and one of the dynamizers of the Democratic Congress of Alternatives, of which the Coordinator Commission was a member. in the years of the troika intervention, Jorge Leite was one of the most qualified voices and committed to reporting the economic and personal devaluation of workers. Between 2016 and 2018, it incorporated the working group for the elaboration of a National Plan to Combat Precarity, as indicated by the Left Block. Jorge Leite's life is a reference to all those who struggle for social justice and labour rights. The wisdom and sense of justice of his teaching and his life are a challenge to the conformation of our society by rules of balance and respect for work and the worker. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its deep regret at the death of the brilliant academic and committed citizen who was Jorge Leite and presents his heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they are present in the family galleries of Jorge Leite, to whom I wish to express my condolences as President of the Assembly of the Republic. Let us therefore vote this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] The following vote No 878/ XIII/4. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of André Gonçalves Pereira. Mr. Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of Professor André Gonçalves Pereira, former Minister for Foreign Affairs, jurist of excellence, professor emeritus of Public International Law and non-executive administrator of the Gulbenkian Foundation. I was 83 years old. He was considered a disciple of Marcello Caetano, of whom he was a student at the Faculty of Law of Lisbon, an institution where he doctored at the age of 25. He was invited to take care of foreign affairs, but would only accept the folder after 25 April, including the two governments led by Francisco Pinto Balsamão, between 1981 and 1983. He participated in the preparation of the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997 and performed functions of great importance in bodies such as UNESCO and the International Monetary Fund. He was co-author, with Fausto Quadros, of the most well-known Public International Law Manual. He taught law in several national institutions and was still a professor at the University of Rio de Janeiro, at the University of Madrid and Columbia. In 2006 he was decorated with the Grand Cruz of the Order of the Infante D. Henrique de Portugal. In 1983, he had already received the distinction of the Great Officer of the Military Order of Our Lord Jesus Christ of Portugal. Meeting in the Standing Committee, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at the disappearance of Professor André Gonçalves Pereira's family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u75	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We passed to Vote No 879 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by a PS Member and a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of the helicopter pilot injured in Sorrado, Valongo. Mr. Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last September 5th, there was a tragic accident with a helicopter involved in the fight against fire in Sobrado, in the municipality of Valongo, Porto district, from which resulted the death of its pilot, Noel Ferreira, 36 years old. Captain-pilot of the Air Force, but also Commander of the Volunteer Firefighters of Cete, his native land, Noel Ferreira wanted to place his knowledge and experience at the service of fighting the scourge of fires, in an example of dedication and bravery. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in the Standing Committee, regrets the fateful occurrence and conveys its deepest condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the victim, expressing its deepest sorrow for the success. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u77	We shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We still have to vote vote on vote No 882 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS and PSD ) — Despite the death of Gustavo Manuel Soares Moura, who will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u78	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last September 9th, Gustavo Manuel Soares Moura. Intransigent defender of autonomic values, Gustavo Moura indeliblely marked the Azorian journalism, the professionalism and the dedication he devoted to him over the more than 50 years of career. Born on January 16, 1934, in the parish of S. Pedro, island of S. Miguel, he was a professional journalist and began his activity in March 1947. He was, among other functions, director of the journal Azores and the newspaper Azoriano Oriental, the oldest Portuguese newspaper. He was also a national and foreign press correspondent, such as the Diário de Lisboa, do Mundo Deportivo, the BBC and France Press, and a representative of the Autonomous Region of Azores in the RTP Council of Opinion. He was decorated in 1993 by the Chief of the Army Staff with the Vasco da Gama Naval Medal. In March 2001 he received the Municipal Merit diploma by the City Council of Ponta Delgada and in September 2001 on the occasion of 25. the anniversary of the installation of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, was decorated by the President of the Republic with the degree of Grand Official of the Order of Merit. In 2010, he was grateful for the Autonomous Order of Recognition, awarded by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Thus, meeting in the Permanent Commission on 11 September 2019, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at Gustavo Moura's death and addresses his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u79	We shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The vote on vote No 873 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by CDS-PP ) — From praise to judoca Jorge Fonseca for the title of world champion in-100 kg. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 880 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — From praise to the Olympic champion Rosa Mota for the victory in the European Masters of Athletics. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Let us vote vote No 881 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — From praise to Portuguese athletes and selections medalled in the various competitions and modalities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We now vote vote No 874 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP ) — Congratulations on the appointment of Cardinal José Tolentino de Mendonça. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on vote No 876 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the creation of a museum dedicated to Salazar in Santa Comba Dão. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The Bureau recorded requests for speech by several Members. Members to announce the delivery of explanations of vote, I suppose. Mr Telmo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u80	Mr President, it is in order to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u81	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Adam Silva, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u82	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u83	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u84	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u85	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 2274 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Tunisia, trying to ratify a decision which I had to take as President of the Assembly of the Republic, after hearing all parliamentary groups and Mr PAN. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2275 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We will now vote on draft resolution No 2276 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Greece. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Finally, we voted on draft resolution No 2277 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are almost at the end of our meeting, but there is still a file which has now entered the Bureau and which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that your draft resolution No 2255 / XIII / 4 has also been withdrawn by BE. a — Protects the historical and social importance of the Republics of students of the city of Coimbra and, by PS, its Resolution Project No 2269 / XIII / 4. a — Recommends that the Government undertake a study on how the constant and regulated benefits of Laws No 9 / 2002 of 11 February No 21 / 2004 of 5 June and No 3 / 2009 of 13 January concerning the universe of the former combatants can be thoroughly and compatible. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-09-11.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are thus at the end of this meeting of the Standing Committee. It is likely that there will be no more meetings until the elections, so I am taking advantage of saying goodbye to all those Members who will not be here again, in this Chamber, with us, thank you for your contribution to the construction of the democratic state in Portugal and, of course, wish everyone a good pre-campaign and an excellent election campaign. Good afternoon to all. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 11 minutes.]]
