ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, Journalists and Members. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. on the agenda today we will hold a thematic debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on digital transition, but before that, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will do us good to provide us with some information while we await the presence of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following draft laws: No 81 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the obligation of analysis to the presence of glyphosate in water intended for human consumption ( third amendment to the system of water quality for human consumption approved by Decree-Law No 306 / 2007 of 27 August ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 82 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes ( Second amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April 2013 ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 83 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the non-professional use of products containing glyphosate ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2009, of 11 May and third amendment to Decree-Law No 173 / 2005 of 21 October ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 84 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the nationalisation regime for TTCs, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 85 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Accounting for days of service for the social protection of teachers placed in incomplete hours, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of lawyers in relation to parenthood or serious illness by amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, which falls below 1. the Commission ; and No 90 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — It provides for the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection, which falls to 7. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, the Draft of Deliberation No. 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Evocative session of 25 November, which falls to 1. the Commission. Finally, they entered the Bureau and were also admitted by Mr President, the following draft resolutions: No 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government propose to the President of the Republic the allocation of the Freedom Order to the persons who have contributed decisively to the triumph of democracy and freedom on 25 November 1975, which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of tolls in A28, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; point 72 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent reclassification of national road No 225, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 73 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — by complying with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Labour Code on the respect and appreciation of the Standing Committee on Social Consultation on the increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishment of shelters for wild animals and farm animals and their legal framework, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 75 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a family support network and promote study and debate for a family and birth policy which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 76 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Strengthening of public supply in the area of haemodialysis, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 78 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Valuation of the National Council for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 79 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — by the end of the public financing of intensive and superintensive agricultural crops and bet on the ecological transition, which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 80 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family development and birth policy, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 81 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates on March 31 as the Day of Memory of the Victims of Inquisition, which falls to 12. the Commission ; and No 82 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a legal framework for breeding sites for farmed animals and wild animals ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, for this effort and for the ability to make us understand to everyone what might come to be on the agenda here at some time. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, who has applied for an appeal to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u4	Mr President, my appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings is to question the following: having this debate and other thematic debates scheduled for this week and for the next, at the Conference of Leaders where the Government sat, and taking part in this agenda the perspective of what happened in everyone, I repeat, in all the thematic debates of the previous Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u5	I would ask you to sum up, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u6	...I would like to know whether Mr. President has information on whether or not the Government will be present in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u7	Mr President, I have no information on this nor should I have, since the Government has the power to participate in these debates, but it has no obligation to do so. So let's start the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u8	Mr. President, I'm sorry, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u9	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I ask you not to extend this small incident very much. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u10	Mr President, the extent of the incident is a subjective aspect of the understanding of each one of us. from our point of view, a change in the position of the Government towards the Assembly is not a minor incident, and we look forward to tomorrow's thematic debate on PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme of precarious linkage in public administration ), which is the responsibility of the government, to correspond in the presence of the government, such as the debates that took place in the previous legislature, if not, I anticipate, from now on, that we will be conducting a protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u11	Mr President, we all understand your intention. I myself, when I opened the papers and asked the Secretary to report on the file, was convinced that the government would come because, in fact, the initiative of this thematic debate is the party that supports the government. But, as the Government has not come, I have limited myself to consult the Rules of Procedure and to conclude that the Government has the power to participate in the debates and therefore comes or does not, as you understand, have no justification. Let us then begin the thematic debate required by the PS on digital transition to what Mr Porfirio Silva has to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : Bringing the debate to the digital transition is taking up here a strategic challenge included in the electoral programme by which PS Members have been elected, so we feel responsible as parliamentarians. This debate is not about technology. The digital transition does not refer to scenarios of technological determinism, but rather to societal challenges, involving complexity and uncertainty, which we must face with the best available knowledge, democratic debate and political determination not to leave to tomorrow what must be done today. Certainly, an important vector of digital transition goes through the economy. It was the most innovative and open-ended companies to international competition that created our economic growth, and it is also the ones that value work the most. But even the most innovative private economy needs other ingredients. We need to deepen the path of investment in knowledge and skills; to launch a broad program of digitisation for schools, coupled with the digitization of educational instruments and the promotion of active learning models and related to experimentation; to strengthen investment in science and innovation; to approve a law of investment programming in science, with an extended time horizon; to continue to value scientific employment; to deburocrate further the framework of research centres and projects; to continue to strengthen adult education; to kill the myth that we have more licensed and to continue to extend higher education to new audiences, particularly active adults, and to stimulate new skills strategies, taking advantage in particular of the full potential of the new distance education system. We must also invest digital tools in a more modern state, in better public services, in a more agile, stronger and more focused public administration in the citizen. This is possible, as shown by the 28 research projects applied in data science and artificial intelligence in Public Administration, already under development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Digital will have a strong impact on work. It will destroy some jobs, create others. The omnipresent connectivity, as a basis for new forms of business, mobilizes consumers, but also buys labor force, often running too far from the regulation of the social rule of law. A multitude of isolated and anonymous individuals, facing faceless employers, is the hell of absolute deprotection of work. Deregulation and precariousness are enemies of qualification and innovation and, therefore, are as enemies of decent society as a robust economy. Against this we must mobilize legislation, social consultation and the strengthening of the mechanisms for monitoring working conditions. There is no sustainable technological or economic innovation without social innovation. We therefore also need to innovate at the level of the institutions. A remarkable example are collaborative laboratories, 26 of which have already been recognized, which, in addition to the old concept of knowledge transfer, operate a true co-creation of knowledge, involving science, the academy and social and economic organizations in the development of research and innovation agendas aimed at creating economic and social value and at democratizing the access of territories to knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must continue this line of institutional innovation, for example by promoting the creation of laboratories for the experimentation of emerging technologies, open to the State and businesses. We're working on an inclusive digital transition. under INCoDe.2030, several actions respond to this desire, such as the Creative Communities project for Digital Inclusion, digital skills for the prison population, training or requalification of graduates unemployed in digital skills, incubators of inclusion initiatives, mentor training for digital inclusion and action to reduce gender inequality in digital domains. The government has entered into its programme the creation of a « Digital Citizenship Charter », which enshrines the rights of citizens in the digital world. We support this direction and add that the PS Parliamentary Group will revisit the project presented in the previous Parliament for a « Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age »,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because it is our responsibility to work to ensure that the legal protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees is not corroded by new factual powers which, in the global sphere, use the latest technologies to condition life in community outside of democratic scrutiny, a reality from which the legislator cannot alienate. We don't live alone. We have to think globally. in a world where digital authoritarianism is the new face of old totalitarian trends, we also need to take advantage of the next Portuguese presidency of the European Union to promote, on a global scale, a democratic digital transition that respects rights and freedoms and is oriented towards social progress, because in the digital transition we play a lot of what we are like civilization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u13	Mr President, the Bureau shall register a Member to make requests for clarification. Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group therefore has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr Porfirio Silva, we agree when he says that the debate is about people, but we disagree when he says it is not about technology, because it is easily about technology. We would easily talk here about blockchain, quantum computing, data economy, of 5G, all technologies on which Portugal relies on other countries that dominate them, and some of these countries, as I also said, do not like democracy. While only 4 % of the data stored in the world are stored in the European Union, while Europe reports on the risk of network installation5G with technology controlled by countries where democracy and human rights are taboos, we have the European Union, on the one hand, to discuss its digital strategic autonomy and the government, on the other hand, simply discusses who and when it delivers the 5G network concession in Portugal. Shouldn't we bet on our own storage? Should we or should we not bet on our security and lead new technologies? And if so, which of them, after all? How do we want Portugal to take part in this debate? Mr President, the debate on the digital transition cannot be about some who follow it and others who are left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u16	We need to bring everyone to that reality, and the government can do it. The government can do this if it finally guarantees that no one is excluded from access to the Internet for socio-economic reasons or for geographical reasons; it can do so if it finally invests in the technological park of schools that are still waiting for equipment; it can do so if it decides to teach young people that we have in schools or if it decides to give digital skills to anyone who wants them and needs them; it can do so if it helps companies to make this transition, instead of telling them that they have more this fund to which they can apply, which has more this financial mechanism to which they can apply, when they are then taken and do not allocate money to anyone. People, and companies too, need to be supported, they don't need to be candidates for more and more things. I welcome the Socialist Party for bringing this debate to plenary, but I cannot fail to regret that the Government has ignored it. [[PSD applause.]] One government was expected to choose digital as a priority, this afternoon, in a debate in the Parliament of the Republic on digital, which was not offline...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u17	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u18	...and that it wasn't a virtual government. The worst thing that can happen is that this transition is proclaiming only,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u19	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u20	... and that we only often write in the Government Programme « support and promote» and rarely « do», when and how. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u21	Mr Porfirio Silva, the Bureau shall register a second entry for the formulation of requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u22	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u23	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva, we have listened carefully to the intervention of opening this debate which had the opportunity to do in the rostrum and let me stress two aspects which are essential for us: the first is a relevant issue on the increase of investment in science and innovation and the other is the enhancement of scientific employment. It was important, on both one subject and the other, that the government should turn from words to actions. On investment in science and innovation last week, we had the opportunity to read a set of news in which the Government and the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education presented an increase in funding for the sector. It should be borne in mind that the increase in appropriations proposed by the Minister for the coming years is less than that which happened in previous years and, in addition, does not even respond to what is — and I quote — « the new expenditure of higher education institutions, in particular scientific employment». That is exactly why I jump to scientific employment. Mr Porfirio Silva says it is important to value scientific employment. On PREVPAP and on the fact that 97% of the demands in the field of scientific employment have been plunged by government and rectors, we will be able to discuss tomorrow. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u25	But it is important to look at the case of unpaid teachers from higher education institutions. The reaction we had by the Government in this regard was to say « unpaid employment in higher education institutions, especially teachers who are in this condition, does not increase precariousness ». I am quoting Mr Minister, I am not making a creative interpretation of the position of the Government. Mr President, I would therefore leave two questions. The first question is as follows: with the figures of the increase in investment in science and innovation presented by the government, how will it be possible in 2023 to reach 3 %? I would even go further: it would take four decades to recover the investment we had in 2010 for example. Is that the government's objective in investing in science and innovation? The second question...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u26	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u27	I will finish, Mr. President. Second question: follows the position of the Minister when he says that unpaid work in higher education institutions does not increase precariousness? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u28	You have the floor to answer, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u29	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Luís Monteiro asked the questions they asked. Actually, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to anticipate neither tomorrow's debate nor the debate on the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u30	So this debate has been marked for what? That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u31	So I will focus on the issues relating to the debate we have brought here today. This is a global debate. We know that there has been a lot to do, we know that the road has to be continued, but we do not forget the contribution of the Socialist Party over the years to a set of public policies that make the ambition we have today possible. Who made administrative simplification in Portugal? We are! Who stopped her? PSD! Who started with the serious science policy in our country? Mariano Gago — I think you remember — PS Minister! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u32	Who really made a great investment in technologies, in technological devices, in schools? I think you'll remember it was the PS! We have to go back, we have to do more, we have to go further? Of course! And that is why we are convinced that more is needed and that there is a way to walk that we are here and that we have proposed this debate. If you are willing to go to this debate, then let's go to it, because it is certainly more useful to look at the forest than to wear out just looking at a tree. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u33	Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Each of us, sitting in this Chamber, will be evaluated by the ability to understand what is happening today in digital society, will be evaluated not in the forthcoming elections, but by the next generations, which observe us. All over the place, they multiply alerts. Citizens are talking about 21st-century technologies, while governments are listening to using 20th-century technologies and responding to 19th-century solutions. in the programme presented by the Socialist Party, the challenge of digital transition fails, and fails for two reasons: it fails, firstly, because it is not ambitious, or simply omitted, in the establishment and concrete commitment, signed in numbers, with goals and deadlines; and fails, secondly, because it limits the challenges of digital transition to a discussion on how European funds will be distributed. It is true that the amount of European funds available for this purpose is high. It is true that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has made a commitment to ensure all the necessary funds that we will have at our disposal to train people with digital skills, particularly in the field of artificial intelligence. It is true that we have at our disposal the most ambitious research programme ever, Horizon Europe, managed by our former Commissioner, Carlos Moedas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u35	But we are at risk: at the end of the frenzy of the distribution of funds, there can be no significant change for the next generations. It is therefore crucial to establish commitments with targets and deadlines. They establish the commitment, with goals and deadlines, to establish a digital school, a digital school for all — from 0 to 100 years of age — less focused on advancing degrees and more determined to develop skills. They establish a commitment to establish a digital school that understands that innovation can come from anyone, whether it is in their school, academic or scientific journey, whether it has been unemployed for 10 years, it is stuck to a job where it does not see the possibility of progress, whether it is at home, taking care of children or parents. They are committed to establishing a digital school that ensures the objective of training 10 % of the active population by 2025, with the basic skills of digital technologies, particularly artificial intelligence, a digital school that brings together in a founding council the best national competences—of basic education to higher education, of entrepreneurship, of research centres—which is a new centre for development that enhances territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u37	They establish a commitment to establish a digital school that promotes knowledge of English, disseminates, multiplies and disseminates our culture through global platforms in Portuguese. They establish a commitment to establish a digital school not to compete, but to complement the traditional teaching system, where it was never so fundamental to maintain the focus on multidisciplinary competences, rigorously and demanding. Multidisciplinary competences are the basis for preparing everything, particularly in the still unknown labour markets and are also the structure that allows our young people to have critical thinking, the ultimate defense of the person in a world where even governments spread, with unprecedented speed, false news. They assume the commitment, with goals and deadlines, to the full digitisation of the State by 2030. Digital technology is the weapon we need to attack in front of bureaucracy and corruption, eliminating redundancy, introducing efficiency and, above all, introducing transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u39	What most entrepreneurs who don't depend on subsidies need is that the bureaucratic state will get them out of the way,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u40	...and that it fulfills its role, ensuring equity and transparency, giving the hand to those who remain behind. The aim of this technological revolution must, as always, be to improve the lives of people, empower the human person, without assaulting or replacing it. Digital Europe, my friends, is not just going to have hundreds of billions of funds to distribute through universities and laboratories. in the global geopolitical movements to which we witness, our European space, focused on defending the dignity of the person, is presented as the great flag of ethical principles necessary for the security and protection of each of our fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees. in this digital society in which we live, data sharing is the rule. But, look! , the networks and the place where these data are stored are the heel of Achilles. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] Ensure the commitment, with targets and deadlines, to comply with the creation of the European Data Area, ensuring compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GPR) and enhancing the safe storage in the European space. Contrary to what has occurred in previous revolutions in this, the lack of material resources or our geographical location are no strategic problems that prevent us from monitoring development. It takes political courage to sign, fulfill and set goals and deadlines, far beyond intentions! This is the way to achieve economic growth. This is the way to substantially improve people's wages and to announce to our best talents out there that this country is also for those who want to be more. This is the way, but we need goals and deadlines. They're making commitments and they're doing it. Much more important than talking, you have to do. And we can't miss this opportunity to lift Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u41	Mrs Filipa Roseta, the Bureau registered a Member to make a request for clarification. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u42	Mr President, Mrs Filipa Roseta, first of all the Socialist Party would like to know what the PSD proposal is. During his speech, we did not hear any proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I will quote someone who is very expensive to your bank: « It is not up to governments to direct the innovation of the economy ». Do you know who this statement is? It's Pedro Steps Rabbit. This is the PSD vision for the economy and innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I would also like to ask you the following: Who were those responsible for the current Community framework that you criticized? Who's in charge, who's in business and who's in business with this bureaucracy? Who were those responsible? As already mentioned, for the first time in its organic structure, the current government presents a portfolio in the digital area. Does the PSD disagree with this strategy and approach? This decision, which the Socialist Party welcomes, sets as a strategic challenge in the Government's programme a digital transition. Does the PSD also disagree that it is a strategic challenge within the Government's own programme? As has already been mentioned, this is necessarily a cross-sectional matter. But let us look at the question of the economy and, on this subject, I am taking advantage of asking you a few questions. Mrs Deputy, typically in the PSD logic in which only the companies are defended by her party, says no results, but I ask you what results the PSD had for four years to present in the area of the economy. He said that the Socialist Party had no objectives, but I say that the objectives, targets, which the Socialist Party proposes are clear, possible and are in the Government Programme: reaching an export volume equivalent to 50 % of GDP in the first half of the next decade and reaching a global investment in R & D(research and development) of 3 % of GDP in 2030. This is in the Government's programme and the honourable Member did not mention it. This development model is possible and will be built. Let's hope the PSD helps us build it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u43	In reply, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the big problem is that we are tired of talking and we need you to do it. We want goals and data. Goals and data are what I talked about. Targets and data are 10 % of the active population with digital skills of artificial intelligence up to 2025. Goals and data is to establish a digital school allowing access to all. Goals and data is to guarantee digital Europe. Goals and data is the digitization of the state by 2030. That's what they're goals. The 3% of GDP is low, we will have 5% of GDP if we enhance, with cooperation and collaboration, with the private sector, which is what we propose as an alternative. Dear honourable Member, honestly, only the PS to come to speak in the past in a debate in which we are thinking about the future. Only the PS! [[PSD applause.]] What we need, once and for all, is that you stop making excuses and start presenting solutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u45	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u46	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party began the debate by saying that this is a strategic theme for the country. at this moment, I think it is more a strategic theme for the Socialist Party than for the country. We have already understood the strategy well: to create the idea that in the digital transition hat it will discuss everything, but it will not respond to anything. When speaking in lack of teacher remuneration, the Socialist Party does not respond, but the rostrum says: « Scientific work must be valued». When there is a lack of investment in higher education and science, the Socialist Party responds absolutely nothing. On the goals of the Socialist Party, he says from the rostrum: « We will invest in higher education and science». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already understood the strategy of the Socialist Party: to divert the various weaker sectors, their public policies and the lack of public investment into the 'hat' of the digital transition. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think that this is a bad strategy, because, when we want to discuss precariousness in higher education, it will be Minister Manuel Heitor to answer for that; when we want to discuss the lack of public investment in science and technology, it will be Minister Manuel Heitor to respond for that. Don't forget that! They are sorry to try this model to make it clear that everything goes to the 'hat' of the digital transition, so that the honourable Members can do it. Members of the Socialist Party also note that they do not have to answer strictly anything. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] If the strategic debate is so important, then they could start by answering whether or not they agree with the statement by the Minister of Higher Education that I quote: "Work without remuneration in higher education does not increase precariousness". Do you agree or disagree? Does this consider or disregard public knowledge and policy for the valorisation of knowledge in Portugal? When we know that according to the data of the increase in public investment in this area presented by the government, we would need four decades to recover the investment we had in 2010, I ask: is it to value or devalue the policies of knowledge in Portugal? in fact, the Socialist Party is not responding to anything. He wants to open a rain hat to protect a more fragile set of ministers, but it seems to me that this rain hat is automatically drilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u48	And there are no proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u49	Mr Luís Monteiro, the Bureau did not register entries for requests for clarification. Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has all the legitimacy to choose the theme to understand for a thematic debate. It happens that this is a political chamber, we all have the political right to interpret and position ourselves on the choice of the Socialist Party. Therefore, we do not cease to find it extraordinary—and the issue of digital transition is very relevant, we will already go there—that, when there are patients without access to emergencies, students without teachers, security forces without conditions to exercise authority and deferred works, the Socialist Party believes that the fundamental theme to discuss in the Assembly of the Republic is the digital transition. [[PS protests.]] This is enlightening of the priorities of the Socialist Party, but more than its priorities, it is very enlightening about its way of making politics. It is that, in addition to bringing this issue to the debate and, as has already been said, having underestimated other subjects which are far more relevant to people's daily lives — it is not even worth ensuring, since the debate has been promoted by you, that the Government here is present to be able to say what it is actually doing in this matter. [[PS protests.]] It is also very important to note the tone of the initial intervention of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party contextualized the digital transition as something complex and uncertain. That's a whole vision! Looking at the digital transition as something complex and uncertain reminds those debates in the late 1980s of those who were talking about the Internet as if it were a bug of seven heads and those who completely lost the train because they did not understand that, with technological changes, the position should not be reactionary but to realize, effectively, how we can use them to gain competitiveness. What we need to look for in the digital transition is not to understand how we deal with it, it is to realize how it can be useful for us to achieve the competitiveness that we did not conquer otherwise. These kind of transitions are opportunities and they are not, as the Socialist Party wants to make us feel, problems that we have to deal with and that scare us in a terrible way. We have to realize that the digital transition to a country like Portugal can be a way of achieving what we can't achieve in any other way. This subject poses challenges, but these are challenges rather than problems. In fact, it obviously poses a challenge for this government to be unable to respond, because in terms of digital transition, the evaluation compared with the other European States is in 18. the place, in a total of 28 countries, i.e., we are in the second half. What is the worst indicator for Portugal, of the five that the European Union assesses? It's human capital. That is, our main problem with digital transition is that we do not have preparation from people's point of view, access to digital reality and, above all, the ability they have, in the context of work, to adapt and be part of it. Being part of the digital transition is not seeing it as a threat. What did Mr Porfirio Silva say? Did you say it is necessary to mobilize legislation to protect workers from digital transition? Mr President, if you want to mobilize legislation to protect workers from the digital transition, what will happen is that the transition exists for businesses and does not exist for people. This would therefore be a tremendous failure — which is already visible in the assessment they made of Portugal — and which has to be reversed. In fact, it was the governments of the Socialist Party that distributed computers in schools and, see, almost 20 years later, what we are worse at is the ability of the Portuguese to deal with digital reality, because what was done was show-off, it was not effective training of people. from the point of view of the ability of people, there is no increase that allows us to be in line with the preparation of citizens to deal with digital reality. Therefore, Mr President, it is also important to know what is being done, for example, at the level of vocational training, which has completely disappeared from your intervention. If we want Portuguese workers to be able to deal with digital transition as an opportunity and not as a threat, of course we have to prepare to deal with it. We know that we have intensive labour industries and we know that the digital transition will take traditional jobs from them. What is being done by the government so that these people who perform functions in the traditional industry, in jobs linked to intensive labour, can be trained so that, in a digital transition context, they can be useful and appreciate their role? It is not with legislation that this situation fights, it is with vocational training and the training of workers so that they can adapt to the new reality. On the other hand, what digital transition brings us as a challenge is something in which the state is fully responsible: cybersecurity. The issue of cybersecurity was also not at least the speech of the honourable Member. in the digital transition, what we know is that systems are increasingly open, the information is increasingly dispersed, the exposure is increasing and there are threats to information systems, often delicate, of the Public Administration. It is therefore important that we know what this government will do, from the point of view of cybersecurity, to ensure that the public administration systems, as well as the information contained there, are effectively protected. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] In addition, Mr President, to speak of digital transition it is appropriate to speak of what is at stake. The Government is not present, but, as the Socialist Party still has time, I ask a question about the efficiency of the state and automation, blockchain, as has already been mentioned. Are we going to evolve into this kind of technology or not? Given the overall evolution of digital payments, why is Portugal one of the few countries in the world that has a monopoly on this issue and in which digital payments can only be made by a platform and are charged to citizens? Why is there no liberalisation of this market so that other operators can compete with the one who owns the monopoly?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u52	I will finish, Mr. President. It is very interesting to hear the Socialist Party talk about digital transition and we will see, when we go to public distributions, computers of the last century.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u53	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u54	When does the Socialist Party invest so that there is, of course, a hardware capacity for this digital transition? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u55	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, for a request for clarification, Mr. Porfirio Silva, although he no longer has time to answer it. however, you insist on doing so, even knowing that you will not get an answer. You have the floor, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u56	Mr President, I know that Mr. João Almeida spent all the time he had to not have to answer, but I ask the question anyway.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u57	The PS can give us time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u58	Since he says that nothing has been done, does the honourable Member have any explanation for the fact that Portugal is part of the D9, which is the group of the nine countries in the world who have the most digitalized public services in the service of citizens? How come we didn't do anything and we're in D9? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u59	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u60	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u61	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u62	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u63	The Socialist Party invoked the fact that the CDS had used all the time it had so that it could not answer. It is a healthy parliamentary practice and practice that those who ask give time for the answer, unless they want to have no answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u64	No, no! The normal thing is to know how to manage times!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u65	The PS can give us time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u66	The normal parliamentary practice is to respect the times of each party. The PSD has just informed the Bureau, a posteriori, that it could have done so before, which gives one minute of its time to the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u67	Not the back! That's when the question arose!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u68	Mr Pinho de Almeida has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u69	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the PSD Parliamentary Group for giving up time, because, worse than spending time on intervention, which is perfectly legitimate, it is to ask a question knowing that there will be no answer. You've been hurt, sir! It's been wrong for you, because you're going to have an answer! Do you know why Portugal is in D9? It is because, as always, being led by a Government of the Socialist Party, the country is more concerned with the image and the effect than, indeed, with the training of people. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u70	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u71	You, for the Portuguese, have done zero; for the sake of European image, they are putting themselves on a train that has no capacity to follow. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u72	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, we want to highlight a crucial issue for the future of our country, our economy and even our sovereignty, which is the issue of productive sectors and national production in this field of digital transition as presented, the question of defending and promoting our productive apparatus – analyzing the impacts of the digital economy sector to the sector, enhancing the resources of the country, qualifying and integrating its productive forces, defending employment with rights. What is required is a substantial increase in public and private investment; a profound change in the management of Community funds and in the policies of training, research and technological development, credit, energy and external trade; a reversal of privatization and the recovery to the public sector of basic and strategic sectors; and a definition of strategy for the digital economy, in respect of the constitutional framework in all its aspects and dimensions. The value of work and workers must be a mandatory matrix in the application of new technologies. Invariably, these flexibilitys have resulted in precariousness and unemployment, but progress and development can only be achieved by respecting the rights of workers and their participation. It is evidence that the advancement of productive forces is, in itself, highly desirable, and our country needs this advance. There could be a set of advantages that are opportunities to promote the development of all peoples and countries, but technological progress must be accompanied by social and political progress that has not occurred. In fact, the opposite happens: it is increasingly a pretext for new and more dangerous offensives, for new and wider extortions. And this is a central problem, that of the appropriation of technological development gains by monopolistic and multinational capital. An appropriation that extends to the most diverse areas of our collective life, including through patents and intellectual property, which translate into real blocks in the transfer and dissemination of knowledge. There are technological advances operating at high speed and with significant impacts on the organization of work and society, with expected developments in the near future. That the capital expects and desires potential gains of billions with the application of technology and the development of this 'algorithm society' and the robot at the expense of the jobs of millions of workers around the world, it is not hard to imagine. But people do not just have to follow their wishes and their solution of « there is no alternative». There is policy and solution to defend general interests and ensure work for all, with labour and social rights. The question is that, with or without technological progress, they have been pretextd, in the name of competitiveness, competition, globalisation and internationalisation, to increasingly impose a policy of exploitation of labour force and general impoverishment. That is why this debate is also about wages, schedules, rights, collective bargaining and about the need, the possibility and the importance for the economy of the general increase in wages and the reduction of working hours for 35 hours in the various sectors. Or the gentlemen. Do you think that this ‘digital transition’ is, after all, the fastest way to an unprecedented concentration of wealth and exploitation? Or do they consider that highly qualified workers, mostly young graduates, who had to emigrate to Germany, France, the United Kingdom, working today in technological sectors or intensive technology incorporation, went there because they were not qualified? When you talk about telework as a means of flexibility in the provision of work and for the reconciliation between work and family life or incentives for the relocation of jobs, it is important to remember that workers have often heard this story. As we have always said, the technologies themselves are neither good nor bad, the question is what goals they serve and what interests they benefit. And concrete life, with the evolution of the Portuguese economy over the past few years, has confirmed that a fairer distribution of wealth and respect for workers' rights are a condition for economic and social development. The question that arises for our collective future is whether technological development is appropriated by an increasingly restricted minority and which will tend to centralize in it even more power and value, whether it is appropriate for the service of human beings and that of general development, whether it is used to free man or a minority to exercise its domain, control and subjugation, if it is at the service of some and not of the workers and peoples. Technologies are the opportunity to create wealth and distribute it, are an essential component in the country's development programme that we advocate to combat its weaknesses, its dependence, its structural deficits, its economic weaknesses, its high unemployment, our insufficient social responses. That is why, for the PCP, it is essential to stress that the digital transition cannot be a digitization of inequalities, exploitation, concentration of wealth. It is within the framework of another policy — one that upholds the rights of those who work, a better life for people, the sovereignty and development of our country — that I will not say transition but transformation can and must be realized. That is what we talk about when we talk about alternative, patriotic and left-wing politics. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u74	Mr Bruno Dias, the Bureau did not register entries for requests for clarification. Mr Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country to look at the future and its development, with the contribution of innovation, creativity and automation, leads us to a dimension of illusion and hope on the potentialities of a new world—more practical, more efficient, more modern—on the immense possibilities for economic growth, on the creation of better conditions for workers and on the idyllic world in which humans finally have time to live. Thus, the wealth that all the extraordinary advances in science and technology that, up to this day, human capacity has been able to generate, and all who, surely, still come there, will be distributed by all and will not remain all gripped by the hands, the pockets, the immense luxuries of a few. I speak of illusion and hope because a significant part of the country has a great weakness of access to the coverage of the mobile network and the Internet. How many of us have not already faced the uncertainty of a deadline to meet and it is not possible to confirm a data or submit a form because the Internet does not reach the place where we are right now? How many of us have never gone dancing at a family member's or a friend's home because only in that little song was it possible to make a call? The current coverage distribution is unable to ensure equitable access to telecommunications services throughout the national territory. There is clear geographical discrimination when the development of the country takes place at different speeds. We are talking about modernity and access to the future that every day knocks on our doors. In Lisbon, money rivers are invested and the Country is proud of the Summit Web, even though the work of hundreds of young people who provided services there has not been paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u77	It does not invest in the media, in public services, in job creation and this investment in the interior leads to the disinterest of the people in fixing themselves. Ironically, the dematerialization of public services only complicates the lives of farmers. For example, when a 85 - year - old farmer collects himself to sell a cow or receive the allowance for family farming, he is obliged to join ViaCTT to receive official notifications. How do you receive official notifications if you do not have access to the Internet in your area of housing and means and the knowledge needed to do so? Illusion and hope, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. in this House, a diploma was approved, on a proposal by the Ecologist Party « Les Verdes » on the dematerialization of school textbooks, which provides that paper materials are gradually abandoned and the weight of student backpacks is reduced. This is the concrete of digitisation which, at the same time, would introduce improvements to the environment. We are questioning what we have done or done so far to fulfil this diploma. Illusion and hope so visible in the high degrees of precariousness of all workers and, in particular, of intellectual workers and technical workers, of researchers, of those who could give the country the support of the future. It is not by chance that hundreds of thousands of them have to seek better life abroad. What commitment does a worker have and what incentive does an investigator have if he doesn't know if tomorrow he'll have contracts or even money to ensure his basic needs? In order not only to have illusion and hope, it would be important to realize whether, with this digital transition, it is guaranteed that researchers will be respected and will no longer walk hand-in-hand, without knowing when the next funding will be. Will it be guaranteed that the productivity increases that automation and robotization will bring will translate into an important leap for 35 hours for all? It is also important to know what the government will do to ensure that all workers have access to compulsory training provided for in the Labour Code and in collective bargaining. For this, first of all, it is necessary to start by attacking precariousness and not legalizing it, because companies have no interest in training workers who enter today and leave tomorrow. Finally, we are waiting for the Government to draw up a timetable for the entire Portuguese territory to be covered by mobile and Internet networks so that the country can make the digital transition without anyone staying outside. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u78	Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all understand in this Chamber the dimension of the opportunity and potential for change that the digital transition offers to our country. But this process cannot be exclusive to companies as it offers one of the most powerful opportunities for improving and simplifying public administration services. And that is why in 2017 the Government approved ICT 2020 — Digital Transformation Strategy in Public Administration, which guides all government areas to the implementation of principles of administrative modernization. I refer to a very simple example: why does a student have to ask each year for a registration declaration to be entitled to his or her pass?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u80	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u81	If a state body already has this information, then it does not make sense that it is asked again, and that is in the process of resolution. But another key factor in this digital transition is the bet on innovation. That is why, also in the State, it is essential to value data science and artificial intelligence. And contrary to what Mrs Filipa Roseta said, this is already happening. Several projects between the scientific community and the Public Administration are in full development to improve the provision of public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These projects allow, for example, the forecast of demand for hospital emergencies and the analysis of risk profiles for long-term unemployed, so that we draw preventive responses. By the way, I'm replying to the honourable Members. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr João Almeida told them that it was also with the Government of the Socialist Party that, three years ago, the first blockchain experience in the Public Administration had happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But to talk about modernization and innovation is also to talk about what is the main brand of the Socialist Party's governments in this area, the Simplex, a unique program, with an integrated strategy for simplifying people's lives, creating a better environment for businesses and increasing the efficiency of the Public Administration. The Simple will carry out a great design of the Government's Programme: to assume that, throughout the next legislature, the 25 services most used by citizens and businesses will be dematerialized, simplified and accessible online. But this will always have to be accompanied by the continuous enlargement of the Citizens' Spaces network, which are over 600 scattered throughout the country, so that the transition to the online is compensated by a presence channel, because no one can stay behind! For the Socialist Party, modernization cannot be done, it will never be done, without social awareness! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For us, the real reform of the state is to modernize it. We reject the right response, which wants less state, that therefore does not bet on public services and that, when he was in power, the only mark that left in this area was to have ended with the Simplex program. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u82	The Socialist Party's response is to bet on the growing digital qualification and transformation of the Public Administration, which has already allowed Portugal, as Mr Porfirio Silva said, to be part of the D9, the group of the world's 9 most advanced countries in the field of digital governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u83	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Surely we all agree that technological progress must be an instrument for facilitating people's lives, for disbursing services, for enabling greater access to information, for reducing territorial inequalities. And it could and should also be an opportunity for us to improve our own working conditions, to reduce the penosity of today's work and to use this greater productive capacity in innovation, to work fewer hours, to win these civilizational gains, to give more rights to those who work and not to precaution. We know, however, that there are dynamics of supposed innovation, digital innovation, which has been a pretext for "dislaborating" labour relations and for transforming employers into supposed clients and workers into supposed liberal professionals or service providers, causing working relationships to be thrown out of labour law, out of the social contract and also out of the building of rights that we have been building over the past few decades. This is, of course, the case with the phenomena of 'growth' of labour relations. It is impossible to do this debate without touching on this point. How it is impossible to do this debate without meeting the ways in which new technologies are being used also to prolong working hours, in a context where they should serve to reduce working hours and give people more time to live. In Portugal, 40 % of the population employed—and this is a two-day report on an INE survey—it claims to have been contacted during its rest period and, of these, 650 000 workers were even forced to work outside their time, following these contacts made through new technologies, contacts made by employers outside their working time. In Portugal, 30 % of workers say in the last survey work under a permanent pressure environment. What we have actually seen is that the personal time of workers, the free time of those who work is often being invaded by permanent demands from employers, is being colonized by a kind of hyperconnectivity, which violates the rest time, which contributes to the phenomena of burnout, exhaustion, and which questions private and family life. And communication devices — e-mail and mobile — have also been used for that. That is why we, in this debate, obviously and necessarily have to talk about strengthening supervision, but also about the legislative signs that we need to give in order to signal these problems. New information and communication technologies should be put at the service of people and should not become a kind of electronic collars used by companies to invade the rest time of those who work. The Socialist Party points out this issue in its project on the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, but does so in a wrong and perverse way, which, in fact, being implemented as proposed by the Socialist Party, would be an unacceptable retreat that would weaken the right to rest of workers. Why? Because the Socialist Party does not provide for a duty of disconnection on the part of companies, but precisely plans to give regulatory coverage to the invasion of workers' rest time. Where it is clear today that outside its working time, workers have no obligation to respond to employers' demands, the Socialist Party wants to regulate such contacts. And, by seeking to regulate what today, although common practice, the law does not accept, the Socialist Party's proposal has the perverse effect of legitimizing the connection on the part of companies, legalizing, in practice, this employer's incursion for the rest of the workers, for free time, which is transformed into a kind of time of conditional freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u85	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u86	In conclusion, Mr President, with this: we need to look at digital transition as an opportunity to strengthen rights and living conditions and not as a pretext for evacuating rights and ignoring labour law and the conditions that have been achieved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Digital transformation and digital technologies take particular importance and opportunity for the economy of any country. The process of digital transformation must be managed by the government across society and in order to ensure proper implementation, without discriminating regions, businesses or citizens. The designation "digital transition" must be an unequivocal and integrated bet that brings development to the country and enables us to resume the path of convergence with our European partners and build a more balanced country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have enough beautiful words! Certainly, I welcome the choice of the subject and join the speakers involved in this reflection. But allow me to say this: most of you. Members spoke in a fleet about the subject under discussion and few spoke in the way in which digital transformation can reduce asymmetries in the territory. Is this not an opportunity of excellence to move from theory to practice? As a transmontane, I have to question the various parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u89	And yours too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u90	... about what they think of this inequality and injustice against the populations of the interior of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u91	You can start with yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u92	In many localities of my district, they are of little interest to the nearly 40 pages of the Government Programme devoted to digital society; yes, they are interested in better mobile and digital communications for all citizens, wherever they live. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u93	Digital transition alone is not good or bad, but it is an opportunity that has to be taken advantage of to serve the country and its populations and to reduce the inequalities that continue to be many — I stress, there are still many!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President, that the digital transition must contribute to stimulating creativity, to create jobs, to generate wealth, to make Portugal not only more modern but above all more cohesive, more supportive and more competitive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u96	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u97	Mr President, other Members of the Bureau, Mr Caros and Mr. Members: The digital transition is today a digital imposition, accompanying all the great wave of technological change of humanity. We can have different positions on it, from those that go from total denial to indomitable belief in their potential. However, the Socialist Party believes that innovation, in general, and digital transition, in particular, are not matters of faith. And since the production issues are mainly worldly, it is up to us to look at the challenges that we face for caution. In the face of all the problems that we have to face, two emerge as centrals: the qualification of workers and the protection of work for new forms of work. Professional qualification and requalification will be fundamental tools to ensure that there is room for all workers in the digital world. But this is not just an opportunity to introduce workers into new careers. This is the opportunity to value work through advanced skills, giving these workers the opportunity to perform differentiated functions, with remunerative appreciation and with greater ease of transition between work functions, strengthening their ability to integrate the productive world constantly changing. That is why it is essential to bet on digital training, as the Socialist Party has done. The previous government started this path with a wide range of initiatives such as the programming of COMPETE 2020, the commitment to the Qualification Programme or with the implementation of INCoDe.2030. But if it is necessary to prepare the citizens today and tomorrow for these advanced qualifications, it is also important to ensure that the sharing of digital transition gains is done more fairly. digital work cannot correspond to virtual work protection. If we evolve in the capacity to produce, we must monitor this improvement with greater concern with the reconciliation of work with personal life and with the strengthening of work compensation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u98	If we have greater flexibility in carrying out work today, we must also safeguard the right to shut down. And if we work at a distance today, this physical distance does not leave the responsibilities to the workers of each company.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u99	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government programme incorporates this need, assuming as priorities, for example, the production of the Green Paper on the future of work. the socialists always put the issues of production and innovation as an opportunity to improve the standard of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u101	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies. Sorry, but the rules are the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u102	But this is the moment when it is necessary to combine the collective effort to take advantage of a great revolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the closing period, in which each parliamentary group has four minutes to intervene. To this end, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor, firstly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two things that have been very clear in this debate. The first is that many people are trying to stay in the photograph of modernity—less the government that did not appear—and in the selfie of the Web Summit. Modern champions are what's not missing! The second is that, for a very significant number of people in this country, portraits are still black and white and that, even if the average is not bad, there are some at maximum speed and others who spend the days looking for signal. Illusion and hope is what we see in this government priority. We agree, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the digital transition is not compatible with such latent differences between the coast and the interior, that the policies of PS, PSD and CDS have promoted for decades. This vision of modernity, so well written in the Government Programme, is not made by more than 800 000 Portuguese to survive with the national minimum wage. Portugal is one of the OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) with the highest rate of adults who do not have secondary education. The Portuguese population is growing older and, on a large scale, info excluded. in this picture, wanting the modernity of the night for the day becomes illusion. We all agree that technology can be an added value for the country's economy. We know that technologies in companies are able to contribute to sustainability, with processes and materials more environmentally friendly and less polluting. The application of new technologies will create new jobs and it will finally be possible to reconcile family life with that of work. It will be possible, by mechanization, to make some less painful works, reducing the incidence of the most diverse incapacitating occupational diseases. We all hope in the gains that digitization has already brought and will bring in the area of health, contributing to the increase in quality of life from the tenderest ages to its end. Information and communication technologies, in addition to facilitating work, contribute to reducing pollution emissions because many travels are avoided. However, if, on the one hand, the network is lacking in isolated areas, where investments are not made because the population is old and small, places where private companies are not interested in investing, on the other hand, these extraordinary innovations in health are all concentrated in large centres, because services in the rural world have closed down. So we enter a circle from which it is impossible to leave. There are no people, no investment in the media, no public services or job creation, and this disinvestment in the interior leads to the disinterest of the people in fixing themselves. Are we talking about a digital transition just for some? Let us look at a simple example of the public radio and television service that is the responsibility of the State to guarantee. The public television service must comply with the principles of universality, national cohesion, diversification, quality and indivisibility of programming and innovation. However, although it continues to say that 100 % of the population has access to public service with the introduction of Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ), the truth is that the complaints of the population shout the opposite and many have only satellite access, which costs families additional expenses and votes to isolation many populations of the interior. We are talking about revolution 4.0 or 5G, but accessing the TDT service, this technological development over 10 years old, remains a problem. Another example, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the 2017 fires, many families and elderly people were left without fixed and mobile phones, perhaps because it is not profitable to extend the wires to rural areas, where populations need to connect to children and families who live far away to not feel so isolated or to ask for help, in case of illness, without having to walk miles on foot. The fixed network communications of the seaship village of Vale Carvalho, in the Sertã, were restored on 31 August 2019, two years after the severe fires that struck the center of the country. At this speed, people will be left behind, more regional asymmetries and imbalances will be created.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u105	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u106	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The most important thing is that people in the rural world are forced to apply for support only online. This is not modern, it is only condemning a part of the country after the delay and abandonment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u107	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u108	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u109	But you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u110	It is also not innovative to replace the notebooks that give access to bank accounts, in the name of modernization, direct boxes or payments on mobile phones, condemning thousands of elderly people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u111	Mrs. Deputy, conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u112	... with low or uncapacity reforms to adapt to new processes, the most exclusion. And we do not accept that the digital transition is the justification for transferring more responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u113	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u114	...more isolation and more costs for citizens. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u115	You have the floor for an intervention by the PAN, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, we realize that no party specifically referred to its environmental concerns, despite recognizing the transversality of the digital transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u117	What about the PAN? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u118	They didn't even talk in the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u119	I'm talking about it now. Nevertheless, we cannot fail to point out the merit of some measures contained in the Government Programme, with indirect environmental impacts such as: dematerialization processes in the Public Administration, which, in addition to facilitating access to services by users, lead to positive environmental impacts; telework promotion, where we highlight the positive impacts on greenhouse gas reduction, impact, this, omitted in the Government Programme ; the commitment to reduce electricity prices by placing on more renewables, collective self-consumption and energy communities; the encouragement to intelligent management of public lighting networks, implementing technologies that safeguard greater energy efficiency; and the promotion of the use of technology to protect and safeguard forest assets and green spaces of national importance. On the other hand, the NAP cannot fail to point out any other points, with obvious dissociation of this Programme with environmental and social objectives, of which we highlight : promoting tourism without ensuring that a tourism load study is prepared in advance with a view to mitigating the environmental impacts resulting from it; eliminating the need for unnecessary licensing, authorisations and administrative acts, a zero licensing logic, a dangerous environmental proposal; and eliminating the mandatory energy certificate, a fundamental certificate for energy efficiency planning and enabling consumers to make a conscious choice for less polluting products. Finally, we highlight very important omissions in this programme proposed by the Government. We are in full climate emergency, where the role of research and development will be central to ensuring the survival of the human species, either through new technologies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in the sectors of energy production, transport, waste treatment, among others, either through the development of carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies, but on this strategic challenge or a word in the chapter of the digital transition, in the Government's proposed programme, and the same with regard to the implementation of a circular economy. The planet cannot continue to view its resources exploited as it has so far, under the penalty that nothing remains for future generations. It is essential to enhance research and development resources and digital platforms for the development of a circular economy in Portugal. We also do not know what the Socialist Party thinks about the role of the State in research and development, innovation and promotion of initiatives in the environmental field. In summary, the lack of integration and coherence of digital transition policies with environmental and social policies is evident. This is a paradigm shift, defended by the NAP, without which we will never achieve a truly sustainable development and will not guarantee our survival on this planet. Nor has it been reported this week that none of the 28 countries of the European Union is on its way to achieving the goals of sustainable development defined by the United Nations in 2030. in the published ranking, Portugal is located in 15. the place, but we can and we should do better. The report concludes that, despite the overall leadership of the European countries of sustainable development goals, none of them are on the right track to achieve the targets set for 2030, suggesting major transformations, especially to improve climate or biodiversity indicators. And, by the way, we will continue to do so in the light of the Government Programme presented. Since now, the NAP has committed itself not to comply with an action that neglects environmental values or policies without future vision. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u120	by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said in the previous speech, Portugal is 18. the 28 countries of the European Union in the digital index of the economy and society. Therefore, this is the starting point we have — these data are 2018, there will then be those of 2019 — to assess, compared with the other countries of the European Union, the state in which we are. If, in other areas, we have positive indicators, the area in which we have the most negative indicators and which pulls Portugal's position down is that of human capital, where Portugal has the evaluation of evil. This should concern us because we are talking about exactly the basis of the problems which the Socialist Party and other parties have brought here about the digital transition, which is the ability, from the point of view of the labour market, to ensure that the digital transition does not call into question the employment of many citizens. And in order not to jeopardise the employment of many citizens, this point of human capital must be the priority of the government. The government prefers to have a priority that has to do with the services of the State and with e-government, but the question is this: a citizen who deals with the Public Administration and who goes to any portal of the State will confront a labyrinth in which, in order to make a minimal operation, he will have to consult 5 menus, 10 options and will probably be sent to another portal where he will be able to deal with his problem. Public procurement, which is something very important for Portuguese companies, is a shame from the point of view of the platforms, because they are expensive, they work badly and make companies who want to compete for each of the contests waste time and money on something that should be much easier and cheaper so that the economy could effectively run, competing for these competitions with equal justice rules for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u122	It was your government who designed the system!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u123	On the other hand, the interoperability of systems in the Public Administration remains a mirage. The clearest example is that of health, in which the systems of each hospital do not communicate with each other. It is not possible to have relevant information in the field of health because the export of data is made by everyone through Excel, losing much of the quality of information that individually each of the systems has.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u124	Are private platforms so good? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u125	I give this example, very clear: anyone who goes to a consultation at the SNS knows that the doctor spends a lot of time on the computer and that often, after the consultation, there is 5 or 10 minutes waiting for the system to work for the doctor to prescribe your prescription. Therefore, this cannot be a public administration which I think has already done everything from the point of view of digitization, when it provides services with so little quality to the citizens. from our point of view, as we have said, digital transition is an opportunity. But in order to be an opportunity, it must, on the part of State investment, have the priority of digital literacy, the priority of vocational training, in order to be able to convert workers from intensive labour industries into workers with the ability to adapt. And there are good private business examples that have done so in Portugal! Vocational training, which, above all, is financed by European money and, in its overwhelming majority, does not even come out of the State budget, works effectively for us to have this ability to gain the opportunity of digital transition. It is also necessary for the State to ensure, as has been said, an efficient public administration and that it is not itself, as it is in public procurement, a promoter of the inefficiency of the functioning of markets, through the costs and technological barriers it introduces so that companies do not have the best conditions and the best environment to be able to develop their activities. in this sense, Mr President, and to conclude, competitiveness, human capital and the defense of cyberspace are the three greatest challenges of digital transition. The ability we have to deal with each of them will dictate whether, at the end of this process, we will be in better conditions than we were. I think we're still a long way off. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u126	by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have not dealt with this debate on digital transition as a debate on the interoperability of electronic platforms or dematerialization of processes in public administration — these will certainly be components of a wider discussion — but we understand it, above all, as a debate on the position of the country, the Portuguese State, in the technological development of production processes. And we believe that this discussion is relevant if it is to discuss a state policy that places the country in its intervention in this matter. This objective, which seems to us to be a clear objective and must be taken into account, is to ensure that the technological development of production processes can be the subject of reflection, but also of political decision. Portugal must make this discussion and take decisions in order to ensure that, with a State policy, it can be positioned sovereignly, as a State and people, in this process, which is not exclusively national but, rather, international, so that this technological development of production processes is politically directed towards national development, in favour of a fair distribution of productivity gains which can result from it, in favour of improving working and living conditions. This must be done so that this process is not left to the taste of multinational decisions, which are appropriate and will continue to be appropriated from the results of scientific and technological knowledge and, in particular, from its application to productive processes. We would say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the reduction of human intervention in production processes does not constitute a profound change in the way of industrial production and, at least from the confines of history, is not quite a novelty. In some cases, this process raises new questions, although in others it continues to raise exactly the same questions, but with a different dimension. For us, the central issue, which is the same one that has been at least since the Industrial Revolution, is to know how the gains of technological development are distributed or appropriate. This central issue requires reflection and decision on the organization of the Portuguese economy, the organization of working relations, the organization of the participation of workers in productivity gains resulting from the technological development of production processes. The use of science and technology, its application to productive processes, the so-called « digitisation of the economy », should be pretexts to ensure that wealth creation is accompanied by its fairest distribution. And its fairest distribution is the distribution by workers of earnings resulting from the technological development of production processes, not only from the point of view of improving wages but also from reducing working hours and improving working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u129	If today, with a machine controlled by two workers, the same thing happened 10 years ago with 100 workers, why does that mean the unemployment of 98 workers? Why can this not mean the reduction of their working hours, the improvement of their working and living conditions, so as to achieve a fairer distribution of wealth? [[PCP applause.]] But this debate also involves a deep discussion of the role that the country wants to play at the international level and in the international division of labour. Portugal, in the international division of work, must have a dynamic and non-alternative participation, must recognize the relevant role of our productive sectors and, from them, monitor measures for the development of productive forces, for the improvement of productivity conditions, from the use of wealth and natural resources, and must, of course, be in favour of more balanced, more consensual and ecological use of natural resources. One last question, which, of course, I wanted to mention, has to do with the role of investment in science and research. We need to counter the concentration of scientific research only in areas that guarantee higher profit rates and that are left in the hands of multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u130	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u131	I leave only these issues as a reference to a debate which, of course, cannot be concluded in the discussion we have made today. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Until 3 p.m. today, no one understood exactly what this debate would be like.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u135	After these hours, by the way, the Socialist Party did not understand the debate it brought here very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u136	It's true! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u137	In his initial speech he spoke of a global debate, he said that this was a global debate, but he did not, during the various interventions, have a single answer to any of the questions that have been asked about investment in higher education, science and how the government is dealing with those who work in science. As I am sure that the digital transition is one of the challenges of our times, it would have been interesting to realize, on the part of those who proposed the debate, that concrete proposals have to respond to the problems that arise, because the risk of a global debate is to have only generalities to say and few or no proposals. One of the main challenges is exactly with the world of work. As at any moment of transition, not everything is roses and we have to look forward to the problems that arise, not because we want to keep looking at the past, but because the future cannot be more precarious than the present headed by a supposed modernity. When we talk about digital transition, we talk about the organization of work and the introduction by the robotization of tasks or integration of artificial intelligence necessarily raise serious questions about the division of work. at a time when technology advances so quickly and enables increasingly effective solutions, these mechanisms need to be used, not to prejudge the lives of those who work, but to improve it. at a time when the logic and evaluation of new technologies would make us think that we should work less hours a day, what we are watching is the hours of work that increase, with more work per shift and night, with a growing of continuous work, with a real 'gurization' of working relations. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, if productivity through new technologies is higher and the autonomy of machines is also tending to be greater, the path for those who work should be the opposite: reduction of working hours, without loss of pay. The tow of digital transition and modernity, we cannot accept that we continue to watch the destruction of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u139	It should now be used to design the model of work and the model of society that we really want for the immediate future. Do we want a work structure that does not correspond to technological advances and keeps workers in precarious condition? Oh, my God! Or, on the other hand, do we want a work structure that uses advances and digital transition to end precariousness and that gives people more time to live? Oh, my God! The choice, for the Left Block, is clear, but it seems not so clear to others in this House, given the recent choices and votes on labour legislation. There is a second very relevant challenge, which has to do with the structure of the economy. Recently, we had debates in this House about how to charge digital giants. There is a huge challenge to understand how to fix the wealth created by digital companies and, despite the examples of other countries, such as France, we still did not want to move forward with more courageous measures. Again, in this matter, the tow of modernity cannot come the State's deresponsibility in the distribution of wealth and this means that there have to be measures to fix that same wealth in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u141	It also means fixing the knowledge generated in this country. from there, yes, the question of investment in higher education and how scientists are treated in our country. The question on this question was not answered and was olympically ignored by the Socialist Party. Mr President, to conclude, the Left Block is committed to this debate. Technological evolution has to mean reduced working hours without loss of wages, it has to mean protection of knowledge...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u142	I ask you to finish quickly, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u143	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, technological evolution must also mean fixing wealth in the country. What we will not do is use digital transition as a means of increasing precariousness and making a return to the last century as regards the organization of the world of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u144	For an intervention, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Socialist Party, a party that supports the government, brought the issue of digital transition to debate and the government is not present. We can ask: was the government required to be present in the debate? Oh, my God! No, I wasn't. But is this position of not being present an option? Oh, my God! It's a decision! It is precisely the decision not to be present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u146	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u147	It's evidence. The fact is that it is not present and the choice not to be present in the debate puts the claim that this issue is a pillar of government policies. O The government has chosen not to be present and this decision marks absolutely the debate, as we have been seeing throughout this afternoon. The Government created a State Secretary for Digital Transition. He placed this issue of utmost importance in the Government hierarchy and with framework in the Ministry of Economics! It's important, but they can't be here today. Today, the government has already failed, it has begun badly! And in this matter, there is no way to start well! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] If it is to deal with the issue with the seriousness it deserves or with the importance it deserves, they can count on us. Otherwise you can't count on us!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u148	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u149	But today, in this debate, the position of the PSD is also very clear. It is precisely in a time of great challenges and opportunities that Portugal has to take as a great priority the strong commitment to technological and digital development. This is an opportunity for Portugal that we do not have the right to waste and that the Government does not have the right to postpone, not to commit itself or not to put it on the top of its agenda! For the PSD, the use of programmes designed within the framework of the European Union is important. They must be used strongly and the Government cannot relinquish its responsibility to ensure that companies and Portuguese people benefit from these incentive systems. We cannot even think of a competitive, attractive, dynamic and more productive economy without thinking of a strong stake in the ongoing digital revolution. For the PSD, we must have the ambition to fight for Portugal to be recognised in 2030 as one of Europe's leading digital technology development engines, exporter of digital basic products and services, knowledge generator, innovative and attractive to external investment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the PSD in this debate is clear, which is of the utmost importance, in which we wanted to bring the issue in a serious and correct way. But today's debate, scheduled by the Socialist Party, leaves us some conclusions: the first is that the Socialist Party brings us a set of proclamations and intentions, but what matters is to do, as Mrs Filipa Roseta said a while ago. We well know that the verb "to do" creates many difficulties for the Socialist Party! The second conclusion is that one of these days, the Government is going to try to convince us that the best way to demonstrate its commitment is to ensure that it is absent. Now, here we have a real innovation and a differentiating form of communication! « I am not present, but it is important! » in a word: incomprehensible! The questions raised in this final part of the debate are very simple: why did the Government not consider it relevant to mark its presence here? What is the government's strategy for digital transformation? What are the government's goals for digital? What strategy does the Government have for public services? What public services do we want to have here for 5 or 10 years? I shall finish, Mr President, with a very simple question: where is the government? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u150	In order to make the last intervention at the end of the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The big conclusion of today's debate is that few parties wanted this debate. They did not want this debate because, even though they all considered that digital transition is unavoidable, few are the parties who put their due relevance on their political agenda. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The challenge of the digital transition proposed by this government reflects a very clear separation between those who defend, defend and apply a competitiveness strategy based on impoverishment, reflected in low wages, and those who, like us, and are increasingly defending a country whose increased competitiveness passes through the use of the potential of Portuguese talent, by strengthening innovation rates, by the qualification of workers, by creating conditions for companies to lead the indexes of Research and Development, as a way to ensure that more innovation reaches the market and therefore manages more wealth and more qualified employment. in practice, with the strategic initiative that we are discussing today, we want to contribute to the Portuguese economy taking a path based on knowledge and that the necessary and indispensable increase in productivity is realized with more innovation and not with less wages and / or with the exit of Portuguese from their country, as unfortunately happened in other times. Mr. President, we are not starting from scratch. We well remember the impact of the technological plan that agreed the country for the critical relevance of betting on competitiveness factors that guided the dynamics of the global economy. But this path cannot have any interruptions that threaten the relative position of the country within the most innovative countries in Europe. It was, in fact, what happened between 2011 and 2015. Portugal has invested categorically in research and development, observing in this period the greatest fall in Europe in this indicator as a percentage of GDP (gross domestic product ) and compromising Portugal's goals. Despite the significant recovery in the past four years, with a remarkable commitment from entrepreneurs and with good government guidance, made with concrete measures, where Industry 4.0, the Interface Centres, the Startup Portugal programme, with encouragement to the technological component, to stimulate entrepreneurship, with the introduction of new forms of financing, where the businessangels network has played a central role, it is still necessary to promote a thorough review of the measures, strategies and projects. Despite the fact that over the past four years, it has been possible to increase total expenditure on research and development to 1 37% of GDP, we are aware that all this, and it has been a lot, is still not enough for Portugal to claim the status of a leading country in innovation. Mr President, a plan for digital transition is therefore incontrovertible today and the government must set this challenge on the Portuguese agenda to get everyone involved. Portuguese companies cannot be sidetracked from the opportunities of digital technologies and, on the other hand, the State will not fulfil its role in an appropriate way if it abandons all levels of intervention to market discretion. We do not identify with those who think that the best way to build a knowledge-based economy is to decide not to get involved. We are aware that much of this colossal challenge of the digital transition of the economy will focus on the global market and, to that end, we need agile, strong and robust companies. That is why the State should work at the right level to create an enabling environment, so that the economic fabric is prepared and has the appropriate tools to respond to the needs of an increasingly digital society. It is true that our goals are ambitious, but they are necessary: to achieve a global investment in research and development of 3 % of GDP by 2030 and to reach, in a decade, a volume of exports of 50 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u152	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u153	I'm done now, Mr. President. The PS Parliamentary Group will not hesitate to remind the Government that this path cannot be diverted. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] To do more and better will always be our motto and there is still much to do, as reflected in the Socialist Party's Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-21.u154	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the thematic debate on digital transition. It remains for me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, which will start at 10 a.m. of the first point is the holding of elections for the following bodies: State Council, National Defence Superior Council and Internal Security Superior Council. Secondly, we will have a thematic debate required by the Left Block Parliamentary Group on the extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ( PREVPAP ). Finally, the vote will take place. I wish everyone a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. [[It was 16 hours and 50 minutes.]]
