ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the Proposal for a Law No 183 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRM ) — Eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October 2001 laying down the measures of the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets, which falls to 7. the Commission in connection with 1. the, and the Bills Nos 1114 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Integrates the Hospital de Braga in the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1122 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Approves the Charter for Public Health Participation and the terms of its disclosure, implementation and evaluation, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1123 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates tax on certain digital services, which falls to 5. the Commission, 1124 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August establishing the rules and obligations of transparency to which it is subject to the conduct of the State's institutional advertising campaigns, as well as the rules applicable to its distribution into national territory through local and regional media bodies, which falls to 12. the Commission in connection with 1. a, and 1125 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Creates a special consumer protection scheme for the protection of elderly people which falls to 6. the Commission. Parliamentary Opinions No 111 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 22 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of culture, 112 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of animal protection and animal health and food safety, 113 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 21 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal bodies in the field of education, and 114 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 23 / 2019 of 30 January, which implements the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and to inter-municipal health entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, after you have settled properly, for recognizing the effort Mr Duarte Pacheco is making and, therefore, for listening to you with the attention he deserves. You may continue, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, draft resolutions No 1978 / XIII / 4 have also been included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Rehabilitation of the secondary school Dr. Celestino Gomes, of the municipality of Ilhavo, Aveiro district, and 1979 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government exempt the Governor of Banco de Portugal, which falls to 5. the Commission. Finally, he submitted to the Bureau a report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the resumption of office in accordance with Article 6 (1) and (2). the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Cristina Jesus ( PS ), the electoral circle of Coimbra, terminating her term of office to Mrs Isabel Cruz, with effect from 13 February, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption and termination of the mandates of the Members concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter our agenda, which consists of a debate under Article 64 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure, on combating poverty and inequality — a social priority, scheduled by the PS. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, by scheduling this debate on combating poverty and inequality, has characterized it as a social priority. And being a social priority, it is a priority for the Socialists and the PS Government, which is also included in their Programme. By reviewing the four years of the previous government, we are not only suffering from a reduction in rights or loss of income, we are unfortunately also suffering a considerable dismantling of the social state and, consequently, the impoverishment of democracy. Only three and a half years later, the PS government achieved the unimaginable, which consists not only of reinstatement of income and rights but also of the reconfiguration and strengthening of social support and the reconstruction of public services through an innovative and inclusive project for Public Administration. In short, it returned stability and dignity to the Portuguese people. Finally, we have a government that treats people well and has returned trust and horizons to a promising future, in a more equal and better country. However, we must not forget the depressing picture that resulted from the more than four years of the PSD/CDS government. The incomes of families suffered a strong and unbalanced reduction, penalizing, above all, those who received lower incomes, such as women. One of the greatest achievements of right-wing propaganda was trying to pass the message that cuts in income had not reached the poorest. Nothing more false! The income of 10 % of the richest fell by 13 %, the income of the poorest 10 % fell by 25%, and the poverty rate reached values at the beginning of the century. In fact, it is necessary to go back to 2003 to find a higher level of poverty than in 2013 and 2014. One of the most dramatic consequences of the policies then adopted was the dramatic rise in the rate of poverty between children and young people. At present, not only has the youth unemployment rate fallen to almost half, but it is slightly more than 19 % — the lowest figure for 14 years — as the dropout rate is practically on the European average, with 11 %, 6 %. And young people known as ‘neither’ are no longer 10 %, when in 2013 they were more than 17 %. Indisputably, one of the powerful inclusion instruments, if not the most powerful, is employment. Well, we have an extremely virtuous combination: we have not only the highest employment rate for 16 years, as we have an unemployment rate at the 2002 level — 6, 7%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is not enough to talk only about more jobs and 340 000 new jobs, we have to talk about job quality and more and better social protection. In every 100 new jobs on behalf of another, 82 are unlimited. There is also an increase in work with full hours and wages and a reduction — attention! — underemployment, with 24 %. Long-term unemployment has halved — 3, 6 %. And we cannot forget the remarkable values of the social security balance, which, in 2018, reached twice the forecast, 7, 6 %, with contributions to be reached in the last quarter—see! — 9 %, which shows not only the rise in the employment rate and pensions such as wage increases in collective agreements and the system's own efficiency. If this is a daily struggle of the Socialist Party, it is also because the root of inequalities always results in an attack on the foundations of a rule of law and poverty is inextricably linked to the civic and political exclusion of citizens. Only in 2017 were 291 people out of poverty per day and 185 000 people in the last two years. Portugal was the second country in the European Union to reduce the rate of poverty and social exclusion more than twice as much as Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The poverty intensity rate, which became 30, 3 % in 2013, remained 23 % and the poverty risk rate is the lowest of all — 21, 6 %. The number of people at risk of poverty fell to 17% and was reduced, especially in the case of families with children. The Gini coefficient decreased by almost one percentage point and also decreased the gap between the richest 10 % and the poorest 10 %, in a ratio now from 8 % to 1 %. at the same time as the national minimum wage has seen the greatest ever increase — 95 €, therefore 19 % —, contributing to a fairer distribution of wealth, the number of workers covered has fallen. If we cross this data with the salary increase of almost 4 %, with an average salary to get a significant increase, now being around €900, we see how the standard of living has improved in Portugal. It is also noted that the lowest salaries were the ones that went up the highest. Finally, arguing that there is no real democracy without participation and dialogue, collective bargaining has been stimulated, with a greater number of conventions held, 220, and a greater number of workers covered, almost 1 million. Conclusion: there is a lot of work to be done but it is particularly gratifying to see that we live in a country where people count, in a country more inclusive, more equal, less resigned and, yes, more demanding, because the requirement is a measure of the quality of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u7	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the Bureau registered, in order to request clarifications, seven Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u8	Mr President, first of all I answer four and then three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u9	We are therefore in the field of traditional tactics. The first request for clarification lies with Mr José Moura Soeiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u10	Mr. President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, brought the debate on poverty and spoke about the reduction in the poverty rate in recent years and the contrast that this establishes with the period of social violence that occurred during the time of the troika and the Government of the PSD and the CDS. It is true that, in this legislature, it was possible to increase social support and raise the minimum wage up to €600, which was not in the Socialist Party's Programme; it was possible to increase pensions either by renewing the annual pension update or by means of extraordinary increases measures; it was possible, on a proposal from the Left Block, to increase the reference value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, having advanced, although little, in the area of disability, and it was possible to significantly increase, through a proposal approved by this majority, the family allowance and to dignify the allocation rules, for example, the social income of inclusion which had been degraded by the previous government, excluding many people who had no other form of social support in a situation of extreme poverty. That is why the rate of incidence of poverty is indeed the lowest since 95, i.e. since the year in which the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) published annually the rate of incidence of poverty, but we still have very significant problems. I am, of course, talking about poverty among pensioners. I am talking about the very serious problem of housing, which has, in fact, a very significant incidence in large cities, which has a relationship with all other forms of inequality, for example, racism, inequality based on territorial ownership, ethnicity, and gender inequalities. I am talking about the problem of homeless people and the national strategy we set in motion. I speak of the effect that the combination of very low wages and precariousness has on maintaining the problem of wage poverty: in Portugal, 1 in 10 workers is in poverty in 2019, despite having a job. I'm talking about access to health, which reproduces so many inequalities. We continue to have many problems and the reality that there are 1,700 000 people in Portugal who continue to live in poverty must continue to offend us. So I ask you a question about three concrete proposals. First: since the fight against poverty concerns all policies, the Bloc presented an initiative in this Parliament, which we will discuss in days as simple as subversive — indeed, it is an idea of the European Anti-Poverty Network — which is based on the idea that, before we discuss any draft law, any normative act, any public policy, if we evaluate not only its impact on the Budget, as it is done today, even to apply the labour law, but also its impact on poverty. When we discuss the number of students by class or when we discuss the income law, when we discuss the health policy or the closure of a health center, when we discuss the value of the minimum wage or the rules of unemployment benefit, what impact does each of these decisions have on worsening, maintenance or poverty reduction? I ask you, Madam Member, whether the Socialist Party is available to follow this bill that the Left Block has presented — and that it is known internationally as poor proof — of assessing the impact on poverty in each discussion of each legislative measure. The second question relates to the solidarity supplement for the elderly (CSI), which was a social benefit created in 2006 to combat poverty among pensioners. The ISC continues to have as a rule not only the income of the elderly but also the income of the family and the income of the children, even if the children do not live with the person who submits the application. from our point of view, this is not only a way to attack autonomy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u11	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u12	Mr. President, I'm done. This is not only a way to attack the autonomy of older people but also a way to restrict access to this benefit. The Left Block will present an initiative on this and I ask you what the Socialist Party thinks. Finally, about the strategy for homeless people, I wonder if the Socialist Party believes that answers should be created...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u13	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u14	... temporary housing of public responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u15	You now have the floor to make a second request for clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome the Socialist Party's stand for the choice of this issue, this problem, this reality which tells so many Portuguese people so much. But, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, I cannot help but say, as a preliminary comment, that somehow I believe that the exercise you did here was a bit depressing. It was depressing, firstly, Mrs Deputy, perhaps because half of this exercise was done to compare data with 2013. What that means is that the Socialist Party is totally focused on the past and has no vision or ambition for the future. In fact, the videos released by the Socialist Party on this matter generate, I must say, shame, because they really reveal a conformity with situations of poverty that I believe should not exist. I would also like to point out to you that, for example, data on the poverty of the elderly are totally absent from your intervention. And the elderly are those in which we should think most, when we verify that they are precisely those in relation to which there is more negative data. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to make this debate a general debate, I have to make a confrontation here with a concrete measure. It was about this that I would like to have a concrete response and commitment from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u18	The honourable Member knows that informal caregivers are people who are at the limit of their capabilities, who have taken a radical turn to their lives as a result of the needs of those closest to them, and we, here in the Assembly of the Republic, have been able to take unanimous steps, in order to present proposals for the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. The truth is that, over almost three years, the Socialist Party has heard nothing about this. The CDS had the opportunity yesterday — and today at a press conference — to present very concrete measures in relation to informal caregivers. Do so, precisely taking into account the priority situation of those who are most deprived, of informal caregivers who are most vulnerable to poverty. The question that I ask you, Mrs Deputies, is very simple: is the Socialist Party available to approve measures that meet those who need them most, among those who need them? Is the Socialist Party available to work solutions that favour the most deprived, who have no voice, and that have not had the voice of the Socialist Party, despite the commitment of the CDS in this matter? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u19	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, V. Exa presented several numbers, several percentages, several statistics, several comparisons, particularly between the current and current 2011, 2012, 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u21	E 2015, 2016, 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u22	By the way, I also make a small contribution to continue these comparisons: in 2011, 2012 and 2013 there was bankruptcy and troika in Portugal, which you brought,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u24	...and now there isn't! Now we've got a wrong country and it's working, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u25	Register until we have the country running!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u26	Let me tell you the following, Mrs VV. Ex. like to get excited about the current numbers. I've seen this! It is very interesting to read the discourse of the debate of the State of the Nation, of July 2010, of Prime Minister José Socrates, because it was all in the best of the worlds. And, nine months ago, we were bankrupt, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u28	Truly extraordinary! But you like numbers, you like to raise numbers. So, Mrs. Deputy, I'll tell you the following: stay VV. Ex. with the numbers we have left with the Portuguese, we stay with the citizens! [[PSD applause.]] I say more to you, Mrs Deputies: we have the Portuguese, who see the precarious work increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u30	Mrs Deputy, that is poverty, that is social inequality, and the government is responsible. We are left with the Portuguese who do not have good public transport, which have degraded public transport. And that's poverty, that's social inequality, Mrs. Member, and the blame is for this government. We stay with the Portuguese who do not have access to a consultation, who wait 500 days, 1000 days, 1500 days for a consultation. And that's poverty, because it's in the SNS (National Health Service), it's social inequality and the responsible is this government. We are left with the Portuguese who want a pension, to which they are entitled, but who have to wait for 8 months, 1 year, 2 years and yet that pension does not appear.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u32	It is these Portuguese who are concerned about us and who should be concerned about the honourable Member, and not about the numbers, the statistics, to raise an area which, despite everything, seems bright but which, in the bottom, is a poor country, an unequal country and where Portuguese suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u33	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u34	This is the reality of the day to day of the Portuguese. I will therefore be very specific and ask you: what does the Socialist Party have to say to the Portuguese, to the millions of Portuguese, who have no normal work, have precarious work, who do not have quality public transport, who do not receive their pensions in time and hours, what is a right, that they do not have access to a consultation in the SNS and now, too, what does the Socialist Party have to say to the students of higher education, who cannot have access to a residence? What does it say to these millions of Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u36	What does it say to these millions of poor Portuguese people who are obviously not winning the future and who are obviously revolted with this government, which has a lot of focus but which ultimately does not solve the problems of the Portuguese people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u37	You now have the floor to make the fourth and last request for clarification of this first group, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I welcome this debate today: the fight against poverty and inequality. I just wanted to say that on the side of the PSD and CDS, in the heritage they left in the country... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... it is clear the need for the path to be made. In fact, it was very interesting to hear Mr Adam Silva stand up against precariousness now and well! — but it shows that the PSD and CDS are only fine when they leave the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They only remember the precariousness when they leave the government. But remember well, remember well! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is, Mr. Adam Silva, that you must be forgotten. He was probably forgotten by the former Prime Minister of the PSD government / CDS-PP, who said that the country was only leaving the crisis impoverishing. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Pedro Passos Coelho said that the country only came out of the crisis impoverishing and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u39	Tell that to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u40	...for this reason, they have achieved the historical record of leading the country to attain levels of poverty never seen since fascism. The PSD and CDS have, unfortunately for the lives of Portuguese, managed to put the poverty levels of this country on levels only comparable to those of fascism! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That's why, sirs. Members, that is the heritage of the PSD and the CDS. Mrs.Wanda Guimarães, let's go, that's what matters, because we don't want to discuss the heritage of poverty. Poverty in this country has not fallen from heaven, poverty in this country has causes and causes. Poverty has structural causes, which are, of course, linked to the problem of the distribution of wealth. in our country, in the 21st century, in 2019, 1% of the population has 25% of the wealth and 5% of the population has 50% of the wealth. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This isn't random work! This means that, while the vast majority of Portuguese live with difficulties, there is a small minority that has seen their profits and their fortunes increase, which are the economic groups of this country. There is no other way to fight poverty than to distribute wealth better. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I repeat, there is no other way of combating poverty that is not better distributing wealth and, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, there is no other way of distributing wealth better than through the general increase in wages and pensions. [[All right!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u41	There isn't! In fact, the increase in the minimum wage has continued far beyond what was necessary. Does anyone here in this room have the courage to say that a family can live with 600 €? Oh, my God! Does anyone here have the courage to say that 600 € national minimum wage is an acceptable value? Don't! But when the PCP here brought the proposal for the minimum wage increase to 650 €, how did they vote PS, PSD and CDS? They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u42	Now, no more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u43	Having 650 € of national minimum wage was important and would still fall short of what was needed. The same applies to precariousness. We continue to have a country with an economic model based on low wages and precariously. A worker with a precarious link takes less than 35 % than an effective worker. It is not by chance that the wager of successive governments, in particular the former government, has been in general precariousness, replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. Therefore, on the side of the CFP, we will be here to hold all the debates and present all the motions to achieve the general increase of wages for all public and private workers, and for an effective fight against precariousness. A permanent job must correspond to an effective link. The proposals presented by the PS here and the proposals which the Government has in this House concerning labour legislation do not go so far. They aim to maintain inequality in the distribution of wealth, to exacerbate precariousness and, therefore, there is indeed a commitment to precariousness and to combat poverty. First of all, we must vote on the CFP proposals for a general increase in wages, a fight against precariousness, a replacement of the payment of extraordinary work on holidays. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u44	...and the 35 hours working week for all workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u45	You have the floor to answer these four requests for clarification, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. I shall begin with Mrs Rita Rato's intervention, to tell her that on the PS side we will also be here to defend Portuguese workers and people and that if it was not the Socialist Party there was no fight against precariousness with results, there was no PREVPAP(Exordinary Regulatory Programme of Pre-Trial Links in Public Administration) and there was nothing. It was with your help, but the government is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Adam Silva, I say the same thing to the millions of Portuguese people who, fortunately, hear us: we have a wrong country and are working, as you have just proved. What is important is that, in fact, the Government of the Socialist Party continues to be correct and functioning.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u48	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I should like to say that what I find depressing is you and your bench are trying to take advantage of a costly, social issue, and in which we are looking for a consensualisation, to hold a press conference, when the Socialist Party's own government, in the Council of Ministers, has already presented its proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u49	What is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u50	That is what I think depressingly, but I also understand that compagation is very hard, and that is why you, in fact, have nothing more to say, come from the informal caregiver, who, yes, must be discussed in our committee and in the working group. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Soeiro for his words and tell him that, from an objective point of view, we will obviously wait for the initiatives. We cannot be talking about an initiative without having discussed this matter between us and, therefore, the Socialist Party is open, as it has always been, and you know, in order to achieve — in terms of only the left-wing ones and, therefore, I am not surprised — to make projects that are balanced and that will improve the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u51	We moved on to the second group of three requests for clarification. The first request is for Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, I would like to begin by saying that you are depressingly, Mrs. Prime Minister, to come here, to this plenary, to announce that you have a status for the informal caregiver and, so far, to say nothing, Mrs. Deputies. That's depressing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u53	Not to mention shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u54	That's a shame! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member, in the gallery, also spoke in a « virtuous combination of policies of the Socialist Party ». I am sorry to say to you, Mrs Deputies, but you have been misled by the word, it is not « virtuous », it is « virtual». And the problem is that the Socialist Party works on the basis of virtual policy. It was the Socialist Party that decided to schedule here a debate on poverty. Madam Member, we are almost at the end of the legislature, you are the ones who have to account for what you were doing. And on the poor, on the poorest, it is good for the Socialist Party to clarify something for which the CDS is alerting from the beginning of the legislature. From years to years we have drawn attention to the lack of support that has been given to the poorest of the poorest, and we are talking about food support to the poorest, Mrs. This food support is made with money from the European Union, the European Fund for the Help of the Most Deprived Persons, the EAC, which you know. We know that you, out of pure prejudice, disagreed with everything that was done in the previous government. They disagreed about the food distribution that was made, disagreed about the social canteens and decided to destroy everything, everything that had been built during the previous government. The fact is that under these European funds 409,000 people were assisted during the previous government. From then on, what do you have to introduce? Time to pass and poverty to be ignored. That's the truth! In 2016, your Government, Mrs Deputy, executed only 49 % of the EAC funds, which are, I repeat, European funds. Half didn't get here! And does the honourable Member know how much he was executed in 2017? It was executed 5, 1 %, Mrs. Member, 5, 1 % of the EAC! This number, by itself, should embarrass anyone. I repeat, we are talking about European money to help feed the poorest of the poorest, that you left 95% to run in 2017. So, Mrs. Member, what's the explanation? Is it also ideological prejudice? Don't you like the food support you need the most? [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] The Secretary of State, at the beginning of this week, told us that the results of the programme which she has now set up are encouraging and what we realize is that she has implementation rates at this level: 409,000 people during the previous government and 80 000 people during this government! With all honesty, we are not surprised that the President of the Food Bank against Hunger has warned us to continue the increase in requests for food support that we have had,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u55	That lady's the one with the steaks, yeah, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u56	... because with the absence of the Government in the implementation of the support for these poorest people, which is demonstrated by the figures, which embarrass anyone, the Member of Parliament and the Government here have to explain why they are unable to carry out these European funds. That, yes, is why, with all honesty, Mrs. Member, it is not entirely acceptable the expressions you used in relation to our bench, because we have given evidence,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... what is lacking is that the Socialist Party should do what it has to do in the implementation of this same support. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u57	They have evidence all over the country, don't they? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u58	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u59	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Wanda Guimarães on the subject that the PS brought us here, and I cannot but say that this request for clarification of the CDS is deeply revealing, even by the fact that she used as an example a person who claimed that there were Portuguese people who could not eat steaks every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u61	So, for the CDS, there are first Portuguese and second Portuguese,... [[PCP applause.]] ... which, of course, is also combined and combined with the action of the CDS and the PSD when they were in government, cutting into social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u63	They have not only ignored poverty, contributed to increasing and deepening poverty in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u65	It was indeed Mrs Deputy with this correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic that it was possible to halt this path of aggravation of exploitation and poverty in our country. It was with this correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, for which the CFP contributed, that it was possible to strengthen social support and also to extend and strengthen the family allowance. And if it is true that, in this path of replacement of rights and income, it has been possible to reduce the existing indicators of poverty, including the rate of risk of poverty, it is also true that in our country there are about 2 million Portuguese who continue to be at risk of poverty. This requires basic responses from the Government and this is a reality that cannot be effectively ignored. They continue to be borne by Portuguese families at enormous costs, for example, with regard to education. And if it is true that the freeness of school textbooks up to 12. the year is a measure of enormous social scope, it is also true that it is necessary to ensure more measures to comply with the constitutional principle of public and free education for all Portuguese. There continues to be excessive costs borne by Portuguese families with regard to health. Some families have to choose between paying accounts or buying the medicines they need at the end of the month. This is a reality that cannot continue! There are measures to be taken with regard to housing. There are unbearable costs for Portuguese families, with regard to housing, which means that many or live in an overcrowded space or, then, they have to live for even more degraded houses, and many of them know, yes, the expulsion of their own houses as destination. These were measures that needed to be taken. The PS, when approving measures proposed by the CFP, also had the opportunity to go further in all these matters, but when it could actually not do so. It is also necessary to ensure public social equipment to support children and the elderly. It is necessary to ensure a public network of day care centers to reduce the costs that families have with children. It is necessary to ensure public support equipment for the elderly, so that they are not the elderly of poor families to stay out of the way and to stand aside as regards a set of social responses they need. All of this, Mrs Deputies, are structural responses and substantive measures that need to be taken and my question is: how far is the PS available to go to ensure these solutions and to respond to these problems that the PCP puts here? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u66	The last registration for requests for clarification is by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, in particular, wanted to congratulate the Socialist Party on bringing the issue of combating poverty and inequality to debate. In contrast to some Members of this House sitting on the right, the Greens think it is very important to talk about the past and, fundamentally, talk about the recent past, because when we experience certain realities and certain political options it is also necessary to draw lessons and lessons from them. Mrs Deputies, I would like to remind you here, and the Members who were here in the past legislature, of course, remember this very well, because they arrived at all parliamentary groups, which were numerous, I repeat, numerous complaints and complaints we received from several schools, very varied, numerous schools in this country, especially teachers, who, desperate, went to the Assembly of the Republic, denouncing the fact that many of their students had a brutal deficit of attention, because they did not take breakfast at home, and that they needed to do something. The students lived with the good will of the teachers, who paid them breakfast at school. This was an absolutely dramatic reality, taking into account, in particular, the numerous, the pile of complaints that came to us, coming from the most diverse points in the country, making this complaint. We in the Assembly of the Republic had an obligation to denounce this matter to the Government. Do you know what the first replies we received from the government regarding this complaint we made here? They said they were not sure that this would be a reality and therefore no action could be taken on things that were doubted and that they were not exactly certain. Do you know what we fought here to guarantee school breakfast, to guarantee students who could have breakfast in schools? Oh, my God! It was a lot, Mrs. Member, with enormous resistance from the PSD/CDS government. And the numerous complaints we received — all parliamentary groups — from elderly people in this country? Oh, my God! There were many complaints that they had to make an option during the month: buying drugs or buying food, and usually the lack of food, did not feed properly. So, Mrs. Member, this is the result of what? a policy that promoted poverty, a policy that wanted to do was to get Portuguese used to a certain level of poverty, so that the richest would live well, because they always saved themselves, there was always money for them. The motto was this: Portuguese had to be used to a certain level of poverty, so that the country could go right. That is why the PSD and the CDS were very upset when, in this legislature — taking into account the will of the voters, who have redistributed the majority, the parliamentary composition and the strength of each party in the Assembly of the Republic — it was possible to generate a solution that completely reversed this PSD/CDS logic and that came to another motto: the better the Portuguese are the country, of course, because the Portuguese people are essential parts for the development of the country. Therefore, in this sense, we also battled much in this legislature to increase social support, because they are directly linked to the fight against poverty. And it was essential to increase pensions and wages, because they are also directly linked to the fight against poverty. But, honourable Member, it is also good to sit well on the ground and take account of what is reality. It is that we have a huge structural problem of poverty in Portugal and, for a structural problem, we need...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u68	Mrs. Deputy, you have to do the right thing to finish. I'm sorry, but I forgot to control time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u69	I appreciate your forgetting, Mr President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u70	But now I remember, Mrs. Member! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u71	But right now, if I'm allowed to spend five minutes... I'm really finishing up. As I was saying, we have a huge structural problem of poverty in Portugal and, in order to combat structural problems, are fundamental structural strategies. in this sense, Mrs Deputy, we must bear in mind that there are poor unemployed people in Portugal, but there are also people who work, who earn their wages, who are poor, because wages are, in fact, extremely low in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u72	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u73	We have the lowest minimum wages in Europe! You know, Mrs. Member, it is very sad to see that the PS, at a certain time, made an option for a lower deficit, when it could have made better investments to generate better living conditions for the Portuguese. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u74	In response to these three requests for clarification, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u75	Mr President, starting by replying to Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, I believe he has no need to apologize for being on the right, already everyone knows and therefore there is no problem with that. [[PS laughter.]] On the contrary, I feel a huge honor in having and defending a left-wing ideology. By the way, I must tell you that the new food programme of this government benefits 80 000 people, and it is not the poor people — the poor people, as you say — who are in need and who need our help. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u76	It's a fiasco! It has 5 % implementation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u77	Then I would like to elucidate it, telling you that Portugal is the second country implementing Community funds, while in its government, when we took office, the execution was zero! Absolute desert! [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] Finally, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I can no longer agree with you, but there is a truth that is insufficient: there are more support and less poor. That is the way we have to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe that this answer also serves for Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, who did not stop putting her finger on the wound. I think we're on the right track, and we're going on. The PS will continue to work for Portuguese and Portuguese for a better future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u78	For a new intervention on behalf of the PSD parliamentary group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Poverty and social inequalities are still a central problem of Portuguese society in the middle of the 21st century, a problem that affects many people and compromises our citizenship. It is true that the risk of poverty has generally decreased since 2014, since the economy has increased again and unemployment has resumed a downward trajectory. Even so, poverty is enormous, especially child poverty, poverty in the elderly population and poverty within pensioners and pensioners. On the other hand, with regard to the elderly, pensioners and pensioners, poverty has worsened. This is disturbing, alarming and unacceptable! Mrs. Members, it is also true that, with the reduction of unemployment, social inequalities tend to decrease. Even so, there are still too many differences between those who gain much and those who gain very little, which seriously undermines cohesion, social justice and the ethical dimension of our development. It is not easy to fight this social chaga, nor is there any quick and miraculous solutions. But, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two realities that we cannot cover. The first is that we cannot give up, resign or slow down the effort to reduce poverty and social inequalities, on behalf of the Solidarity Country we are and the most just society we want to build. The second is that current public policies have seriously failed in this fight, which must be strategic and structural. The economic growth policy of this government fails. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u80	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u81	It is true that we are growing, but growing to Europe's blight. Only this is a mediocre growth: Portugal is the fifth country of the European Union that grows less! thus, we will joyfully dig our increasingly marked position in the tail of Europe. And we do not create enough wealth to effectively combat poverty, to reduce inequalities, to promote economic prosperity and social solidarity. The health policy of this government fails, with the gradual and dangerous degradation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u83	by the hand of a left-wing government, with the express support of the left-wing parties, today we witness the greatest attack that there is memory of the National Health Service. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u84	Great landslide!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u85	It's captivating and cutting, it's de-investment in facilities, equipment and technology, it's waiting lists, it's the drugs that are missing in pharmacy, it's the demotivation that prevails in our health professionals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u86	It is true that the discourse of the Government, the PS, the PCP and the Left Block is in favour of the National Health Service, but the practice, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is hypocritical, cynical and contradictory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u87	It has never been invested in the National Health Service as much as today, not even in the difficult and exceptional time of the troika, as it has recently revealed the unsuspecting Court of Auditors. And this, yes, is poverty, this, yes, is worrying, this, yes, increases social inequalities! The truth is that a good National Health Service is one of the most effective ways to combat the drama of social inequalities. It is that the rich always have alternatives, the poorest or have access to an effective and good National Health Service or simply have no access to health. [[PSD applause.]] Say this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not demagogy, to say this is a serious exercise of democracy! Mrs. Members, the income policy of this government fails, the consequences of which are the low wages. A low-wage policy is a huge illusion and gross injustice. With low wages we neither gain economic competitiveness nor promote social justice. However, to reverse this reality, the national minimum wage cannot be increased. It is essential, above all, to bet on the competitiveness of our companies, because it is companies that generate jobs and that can raise wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u89	But this is also where the government fails in turn, especially in fiscal policy. The fiscal policy of this government is economically and socially unjust. By increasing the tax burden in general and not reducing the IRC (tax on the income of the public ), the government suffocates companies and does not attract investment. With the wave of indirect taxes, the government reinforces and exacerbates social inequalities. Here, too, rhetoric is hypocritically left-handed and practice is frighteningly conservative, dangerously statisticizing and socially disastrous. Housing policy still fails. Without decent social housing, generalized and affordable prices, poverty is not combated and social inequalities are not reduced. [[Protests by PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] But the truth is that housing policy is also one of the failures of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u90	With the rent law, was it better? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u91	Just look at the urban centers: young couples, middle class children, do not get a decent and cheap place to live; families with little economic resources dream of a house, apply for a home, fight for a house, but cannot satisfy their dream, their legitimate ambition and their most basic right to a decent and necessary housing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is against these failures that we raise our voice. It is against the hypocrisy of the official discourse that we express our challenge. It is against the policies that kill the social elevator, preventing families from rising into life, which we add our feeling of indignation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Combating poverty and social inequalities is surely a national plan. Signing a national commitment or a regime pact around a national plan will always have our availability, but never, ever, on the basis of the wrong ideas and the wrong policies that are currently developing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u93	It is time to change life, change the discourse, so that seriousness overlaps hypocrisy, change political practice, so that ambition imposes itself on resignation, change guidelines, so that the country is not only European by geography but also by the economy, change policies, so that social consciousness ceases to be a mere and inconsistent flower in the lapel. After all, what we need is a generation of policies that promote the economy, that face demographics, that face poverty and social inequalities. what we need is a generation of policies that have another ethical dimension, another dimension of citizenship. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u94	Two Mrs were registered. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u95	I'll answer the two gentlemen. Members, together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u96	So the first request for clarification lies with Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, such is the degree of contradiction between the concerns you have expressed and the concrete political decisions of your party that it is difficult to ask a question that is not about concrete measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u98	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u99	Mrs. Deputy spoke of child poverty. Why did the PSD lead to increased family allowance in this State budget? Oh, my God! He's been talking about wage inequalities. Why is it that the PSD was against a project that was discussed in this Parliament to combat wage inequalities and even the so-called 'bisbilhotice' — see there! — on company salaries? Oh, my God! He spoke of the importance of the National Health Service. It was the government that the honourable Member supported, was her party, which doubled the value of moderate rates, in a country where the Portuguese Health System Observatory says that 20% of people do not access consultations and treatments for financial reasons. Still last week we discussed here a proposal from the Left Block to end payment in the transport of patients. How did the honourable Member vote? He voted against! And you've got the defiance to make your speech in the rostrum! About the caregivers, zero PSD proposals! Not one for a sample! Zero PSD proposals, including in the working group! On housing, Mrs Deputy, the PSD was one of the co-authors, one of the accomplices of the « law Cristas», which is a waste-making machine. The PSD voted against the moratorium to protect the oldest and poorest people from being homeless and is currently boycotting a Parliament law that recognizes the right of preference to victims of « abutre funds », such as fidelity. We are talking about 2000 fractions, 2000 families that can be left homeless, and the PSD is asking for the supervision of a law to defend this 'boutre fund' and boycott people's rights. Madam Member, we need a serious debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u100	Really? Oh, my God! I'm being dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u101	We don't need a degree of discard size and undo as what the PSD brought us here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u102	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Rui Riso of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, according to your speech, there are a number of areas in which we agree. The first of which is that the fight against poverty cannot fail to mobilize us all continuously and firmly, because whenever the pressure is stopped or reduced to reduce it, the following steps are always much more difficult. If there are areas where the past has a special weight, this is one of them and, whether or not, the worsening of poverty in the years of austerity has been a serious blow to this fight, as is evident in the Survey on the Living and Income Conditions of the families of the European Union. As is well known, poverty tends to reproduce continuously and the elimination of the factors that lead to it is the only way to eradicate it. And despite all the efforts of our democratic life to eliminate inequalities, there is still much to do here. Strengthening public services, such as education and access to health care, which are two of the areas where significant progress has been made in reducing inequalities, continue to merit our special attention. Social support is also indispensable to reduce vulnerability, but there is no doubt that increasing employment and increasing labour income are the factors that contribute most to poverty reduction, as well as higher pensions, especially lower pensions. The reduction in poverty rates that have been verified is the result of policy change, and this route cannot be interrupted. Remembering past mistakes serves, above all, to avoid making them again. And I must tell you that, in terms of housing, we agree. But we agree to convene everyone, even for this fight. And being a duty of all of us to remove from poverty men and women, younger and older, what are your concrete proposals? As far as proposals are concerned, he said nothing to us: nothing told us about housing, nothing told us about education, nothing told us about health. He made only one report, if I may, sent it to him on a reality which is better today than he was before, but which still deserves much more care. And there is always a lot to do, because, in these social areas, there is always a lot to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u104	In reply, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u105	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr José Soeiro and Mr Rui Riso asked the questions. Mr José Soeiro, contradiction, rejection and defamation were characteristics of his intervention. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u106	And I'll tell you why. How is it possible for you to be supporting a government that fails across the line with the elderly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u107	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u108	Say there, honourable Member, if it is not contradiction, disarray and disarray to be supporting a government that sees the elderly more than one year ago, some more than two years ago, without receiving any income?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u109	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u110	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u111	How can you say that the PSD is in contradiction, when it is the Member who supports a government that pays more than 700 million euros of undue benefits, who does not recover and who fails who needs the money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u113	Therefore, it is the honourable Member who has to account, because it is the honourable Member who is supporting this government. [[PSD applause.]] As for Mr Rui Riso, when he heard his question, I thought that I would thank him for the constructive position that the Socialist Party was adopting with regard to the need for all of us, in a way, we would look at this matter of poverty as the PSD understands it, that is, as a national plan. Only then did the honourable Member, in our view, end up in a very wrong way. It's just, Mr. Deputies, it's not the PSD that's ruling. Who should be here, after having scheduled this debate, to present solutions were you! How are you able to ask, as you did at the end of your speech, what are the PSD proposals? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] Mr President, we thought it was today that you came to apologize to the Portuguese and present solutions so that they could leave the poverty they are in. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u114	at present, the Bureau does not register any other requests for intervention. We are sure that the parliamentary groups have not just finished raising their arguments on this matter. We therefore call for expressions of interest in the debate to take place quickly. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Half of the people in Portugal have already experienced, at some point in their lives, a situation of poverty. In 2017, it is true that over 100,000 Portuguese left the poverty situation and the proportion of children and young people in poverty decreased more significantly. They are data that contrast with the worsening of all indicators during the austerity period and with the consequences of the political choices of the PSD and the CDS, particularly between 2012 and 2014. They therefore took effect the economic improvements of the last period, the recovery of income, the creation of employment, the strengthening of social support, which are the mark of the agreements that have been made to give rise to this majority. But, as I have already said, Portugal is still one of the countries of Europe with the greatest poverty and the highest levels of inequality. In fact, 1 million and 700 thousand Portuguese continue to be in poverty and a significant part of them and of them are children. In other words, society and public policies as a whole have a huge path to be taken to eradicate this violation of human rights. In 2008 the Assembly unanimously declared poverty a violation of human rights following a petition signed by more than 20 000 citizens and dynamized by the National Justice and Peace Commission. However, the period that followed revealed that these expectations of a new commitment to combating and eradicating poverty would emerge. From 2010 onwards, the policy of austerity, cuts and transfer of wealth from work to capital has triggered poverty in our country. And there is no fight against poverty without attacking all its causes. The causes of poverty are, of course, the decisions on economic policy and primary income distribution. Precarity and low wages continue to be a brand of the world of work in Portugal. Combating poverty is to intervene in labour legislation, wage policies, collective bargaining. Will the Socialist Party join in the debate on labour laws? On the other hand, the unemployed are a group especially vulnerable to poverty and indicators do not, from this point of view, improve. Employment has been created, of course, much of that employment is precarious, but among those still unemployed, the risk of being poor has not diminished. We have improved the coverage of protection in unemployment with the measures we have adopted in the State Budget, but the precariousness and contractual intermittent explain why this problem has not disappeared. Among the elderly, poverty reflects work inequalities and gender inequalities. Even with the increase in pensions we have been able to make, lower pensions are a condemnation of poverty, particularly for women. Poverty is also reflected in caregivers and caregivers. For months, the bill of the Left Block for a status of caregivers and caregivers awaits the conclusion of the debate in the specialty. We're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who do not want the other parties to drag this debate indefinitely and that is what we have concluded. Poverty also has to do with educational policies, with the freeness of teaching, with the price of manuals, with payment, with social action and with conditions of success. Poverty also has to do with health. It says the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems, and I quote, «When the sicker the poorer, and the poorer the sicker». It also says that 20 % of the poorest no longer have access to consultations or treatments due to financial difficulties and that, in dental care, this value is up to 50 %. The Observatory also says that people with higher income « are significantly less likely to wait for consultation ». When we talk about health, when we talk about Health Bases Law, we're talking about poverty. As we are talking about poverty when we talk about housing, which consumes most of the income of many families in Portugal. Without protecting people from eviction, without substantially increasing public supply and housing at controlled costs, we are objectively complicit in poverty and social exclusion. The "Cristas law" was a machine to produce inequality, exclusion and poverty in the area of housing. Is the Socialist Party available to approve with the Block measures that truly inflict this path in the area of housing?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u116	That's just not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u117	Let's talk about racism now. The relationship between poverty and discrimination is not a coincidence. When we have realities like that of the Jamaican neighborhood, when the data show that black workers receive on average less € 106 than the generality of the workers, who occupy the most disqualified jobs, who are seven times more likely to live in precarious housing than the generality of the population, which is to say that Portugal is a country where racism is structural, is the day by day of our population, of our Portuguese population, of the black population. The fight against poverty requires us not to pretend we do not know. And it also requires attention and awareness throughout the spectrum of political intervention, from labour issues to social minimums, from health care to education, from housing to transport and from combating discrimination. We therefore consider that each measure and every proposal we are discussing here contributes to increasing or reducing poverty. Yes, I am glad that we are having a debate on this subject today. However, concern about poverty cannot only be the subject of a debate, it must also be the orientation of each policy, a responsibility for every day and all the measures we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u118	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. If poverty is a violation of human rights, what specific policies contribute to this violation and what policies combat it? in pensions, in housing, in transport, in education, in health, in anti-racist combat, in labor law, the Block knows which side it is on. May there really be a majority to fight poverty! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Poverty is a reality felt by more than 2 million Portuguese people who struggle every day to survive, a reality that is not circumstantial and that is not conjectural, but has structural causes. And in order to combat and eradicate poverty, because the goal is to eradicate poverty, it is necessary to intervene in situations of poverty and social exclusion. Poverty and social exclusion are neither fatalities nor inevitability; they are, yes, realities that result from several factors deeply linked to the unfair distribution of wealth and the process of concentration of wealth, which several governments have promoted over the decades. Mrs. Members, 1% of the population has 25% of the national wealth and 5% of the population accumulates almost 50% of the national wealth, which is deeply revealing the huge social inequalities that persist and that need to be firmly combated. There is still a reality of unemployment, precariousness and low wages, a marked practice in our country and that makes workers who, by receiving their wages, live in poverty. There are still low pensions that also result from low wages. There are still difficulties with access to social benefits. Poverty also runs with poor housing, with the burden of expenses that families have with housing, weighing more than 40 %, affecting especially low-income families, as a result of unbridled speculation in the housing market and the law of waste, the PSD and the CDS, which denies the right to housing to thousands of families. Having been given positive steps in the replacement of income and rights, it is important to go further and take further the path to eradicating poverty, which is inseparable from the creation of employment with rights, the dynamization of national production, the general increase in wages, in particular the national minimum wage, the increase in pensions and reforms, whereby the CFP has both beaten itself, the strengthening of social protection, but also the fulfilment of social functions by the State as regards education, health and social security. The CFP has been intervening over all this over the years, with proposals, understanding that the fight against and eradication of poverty is not done with assistance or charitable measures, but by intervening in the fundamental issues that cause poverty. Today, we contribute more to this same discussion and we are again engaged in the delivery of a bill that defends the implementation of a national strategy to combat and eradicate poverty and social exclusion, which, while not forgetting the need for integrated policies for this fight, as well as actions that prevent the risk of both phenomena, also intervenes in terms of social equipment supporting children and the elderly, people with disabilities and also in terms of the various plans in which social inclusion is decided and determined. A strategy that also reflects the implementation of social emergency measures that we also know are necessary in the face of the poverty situation we have. Today, the CFP leaves here again its contribution to combating the eradication of poverty and also to building a more just society and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are awaiting registrations for new interventions. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of a debate on poverty and social inequality, it would be expected that the Government and its supporters, PS, PCP and Left Block, would have come here to explain what their strategy is. We did not expect Mr. Carlos César, after 16 years of ruling the Azores, with a poverty rate of 31, 5 %, almost twice the national average, to explain the strategy here, but we hoped, if everything went so well in Portugal, that they presented what strategy they had to combat the increase of poverty in the elderly and pensioners. If everything goes so well in Portugal, how will we resolve that we are on our way to becoming the fifth poorest country in the European Union? If everything goes so well in Portugal, but we are the least growing country, how can the Portuguese believe that the numbers here are sustainable? Or, more importantly, what path do we make to ensure that the data are not circumstantial? It was hoped, on the other hand, that they would be satisfied with improved numbers, but that they would not resign themselves from presenting concrete measures to solve what is not right, to recognize what is of concern to us and what is of concern to the country. If the good numbers are conjuncural, what is the plan for them to stay out of the conjuncture? But no! What we witnessed was more than that: half the time to blame a past that begins and ends with the previous government and the other half slapping itself in the back. It should be clarified once and for all that the PSD has no problem with a past in which, together with the Portuguese, it has removed the country from bankruptcy;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u125	...has problems, yes, when the Socialist Party deceives to forget and whiten its past, which is the one that put the country in bankruptcy. If there is no future without memory, it is poor a future based on deception and deresponsibility, now vigorously applauded by the Left Block and the PCP. You heard that here today by the PS. Mrs Wanda Guimarães said: "By reviewing the previous four years of government, we are not only suffering from a reduction in rights or loss of income." And he continued to say that «Further than three and a half years later, the PS government achieved the unimaginable, which consists not only in the replacement of income and rights but in the reconfiguration and strengthening of social support and in the reconstruction of public services, through an innovative and inclusive project for the Public Administration ». Now, about the past and glory, I also have the following quote: « I do not remember a period when a government had left so many marks on the left. At no other time have such policies developed, a social awareness mark that honors any government, in particular a PS government ». Who said this was then Prime Minister José Socrates, in 2008. It was the glory of Socrates, António Costa, Vieira da Silva and Pedro Marques. Poor, it will be a parliamentary debate in which you can choose what the past you want to talk about. José Socrates also said here in July 2010 and I quote, « There seems to be some Mr. Members who have not heard well; if you do not mind, I will repeat: Portugal has reached the lowest rate of poverty ever, 17, 9 %».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u126	Not a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u127	Less than a year after this statement, the Socialist Party handed the country over to the troika, leaving written a set of mandatory measures that today, here, they shot at those who solved them, which would make the lives of the Portuguese so difficult and the inheritance of such distressing new numbers. This game keeps the Portuguese away, they don't care about exercising the pass of guilt, but they're interested in not lying to them and not fooling them. If the PS is ashamed to admit your past, at least have the respect of not trying to blame others for the solution of your mistakes. It is poor a democracy that separates people from being unable to create trust through the truth. What respect for the Portuguese requires is that they assume the country that your political choices and behaviours are building. If this debate is about poverty and inequality in Portugal, what poverty and inequality are these in people's lives? Inequality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you generate when you intend to pretend there's money to distribute...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u128	It's when you steal wages and pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u129	...and increases gasoline to everyone in the same way, to those who can and those who cannot. [[PSD applause.]] Poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what is generated in a country when the Minister says that there is full employment between doctors and, after all, it was a lie, but the news was already being told. Or when the minister himself announces the end of the tips in higher education and, after all, it was also a lie, but propaganda was already made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u131	Inequality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is what is generated in a country when we discriminate between public officials and private officials and if we adopt an irresponsible narrative of cleavage and discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u132	Excuse the Portuguese for stealing wages and pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u133	Inequality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is what is generated when teachers are promised a progression that is not fulfilled and then if teachers are blamed for demanding compliance with that promise. [[PSD applause.]] Poverty is what is generated when even the strikes, the strikes, we manipulate. If they happened before, they were discontent; if they happen now, they are the result of better life expectancy, said the Minister of Social Security. Poverty is what is generated when they want to win votes with 35 hours in the Public Administration without worrying about the strengthening of staff that this implies, disregarding the chaos that this deception has generated in the lives of the workers of the courts, schools and hospitals. Inequality is what is generated when an intergenerational equity report is sent down that allows us to know with transparency what the impact of each measure on each generation and prevents the debate on the sustainability of social security. [[PSD applause.]] Inequality is what is generated when four years have passed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to be proud of having fought precariously, and the INE (National Institute of Statistics) has been denied. Today there are more 73,000 precarious than in the year of entry into the troika, and it is the highest value since 2011. This is inequality! Inequality is what is generated when an entire legislature is passed announcing five new hospitals, if the legislature ends exactly with the same advertisement and without any hospital. [[PSD applause.]] Inequality is what is generated when Braga Hospital is the one that provides the best service to users and ideological prejudice is more important for management than the quality of service provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u134	Let's say that in Braga! They were all pushed to Porto and Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u135	Poverty is what is generated when the State takes two years to process the pension of Portuguese immigrants. Inequality is what is generated when large pump plates are dropped to talk about decentralization and Lisbon receives, by passenger, the double of the port and the triple of the rest of the country. [[PSD applause.]] Poverty is what is generated when about 40 % of the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) are at risk of bankruptcy and the government takes more than one year to make the appropriate VAT returns ( value added tax ). Poverty is what is generated when the government publicly propagates the works that it will do in falling schools and schools never happen. Poverty is what is generated when we don't blush with the school park party, and the PS didn't learn the lesson. [[PSD applause.]] Inequality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is what is generated in a country where friends do not have to comply with rules to occupy positions and workers who report lack of maintenance on trains are away.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u136	Poverty is not to present any proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u137	Poverty is a country where the state fails and the Prime Minister goes on holiday; where people die in July because the state has failed; where people die in October because the government has not taken its failures; where medical emergency helicopters fall and nobody has responsibilities; where weapons are stolen in military facilities and the government talks about political empolation; where train engines are falling and the Minister of Infrastructure makes openings. [[PSD applause.]] For the PSD it is unquestionable that the purpose of political action is to combat poverty and eliminate social inequalities, but political action and the consciousness of those who govern cannot be indexed to electoralism and the game of propaganda for the maintenance of power. We well know the price that each of us, Portuguese, paid for lack of transparency. There are still those who insist on the idea that it is worth everything to achieve power and to maintain it. What the PSD knows is that no political path is sustainable or valid if it is not based on truth, justice and equity. [[PSD applause.]] A poor future is announced which is not supported by the truth and the trust that only the truth generates. For the PSD, combating poverty and social inequalities is essential, but it is essential because this is the only way that will allow people to have effective freedom to build their plan of happiness, which they choose rather than what they want to impose on them. Political action is by the people, it is not by the fragile and poor memory that glory of numbers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u138	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, can only speak of the situation of poverty in the Azores who did not know the situation of social catastrophe in that region for 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u140	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u141	Let us go to the debate on poverty. It is regrettable because what you did in the rostrum was not discussing poverty, go there to know why. But I don't have time to go that way either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, you have a short memory, but we are here to revive that memory. [[PSD protests.]] Whoever has no memory of the past has no legitimacy to build the future. Have you forgotten about your governance in which poverty rates have reached their historical peaks? Have you forgotten your governance in which women and children were whipped by austerity policies, with 10-year setbacks as regards the indicator 'risk of poverty'? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Have you forgotten another hour of public service work with screaming losses for support to the family, the elderly and the children? They took time for families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has taken the path of confidence with this government. The Europe 2020 goal of removing 200 000 people from poverty will not be achieved, has already been achieved in 2018. It was 500 000 people who came out of poverty, of these 286 000 are women and 167 000 are children. These are the numbers that the honourable Member there from the rostrum did not want to address. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this policy, the social elevator is working, it is breaking down generationally this path that you wanted to introduce to build the future. It is true that the risk of poverty is higher in some groups, particularly in women, which represent 54% of the poor. It is true that it is greater in single-parent families, which are mainly women, i.e. 80% of these families are women. But it is also true that, with these policies of progress, the risk of poverty in single-parent families has decreased significantly and that the risk differential between men and women has also decreased significantly. This is why we have progress policies today that are greatly contributing to the reduction of social inequalities. This is the way, there can be no other way. It is unfortunate that you do not recognize it and, if you do not recognize it, do not want to build the future, because they are always turned and looking to the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u142	In reply, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I have to start with the end. For the past? Are we always looking at the past? Do you know how many interventions there have been on this side of the House that have not spoken in the past several times, and it is only in a selective past, which is that of the previous government? None, absolutely none! If you don't trust me, please ask for the tape. The honourable Member said that I had not discussed data. First of all, I want to tell you that it is understood that what I spoke about on the platform is not to discuss poverty, we have very different concepts of poverty. I am sure that all those who are affected by each of the things I have listed, right now have exactly the same concept of poverty that brought you here as well. But that's not why, Your Honor! Tell me that I didn't use data, but when I use the Azores data, it's very outraged to tell me that 20 years ago it was much worse. Mr President, Mr César — it was not him who asked me the question, but I assume that this was the intention — he has been ruling the Azores for 16 years and, given the risk rate of poverty, what I said was that he did not tell us how it is done, because that does not matter to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] After that, since 2012, there is a socialist and we continue to have the same rate of poverty, which, I say again, is almost twice the national average. [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member is that she wanted me to discuss data! But I also want to ask you this: do we have a bad memory, Your Honor? Oh, my God! Is the past limited to what was the previous government, the government that removed the country from bankruptcy? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u144	They've led people to poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u145	I don't know if the honourable Member has that notion! It can discuss whether it has been'more like this' or whether it has been'more sour', but it is a fact, it is not a question of political discussion. There was an incompetence or bad faith—you can choose! — which led the country to bankruptcy. That's what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u146	Excuse people for stealing their wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u147	It was the gentlemen who handed the country over to the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u148	Excuse me for stealing people's salaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u149	What happened before — and that will have been the reason why the country went to bankruptcy — speaking in numbers, speaking in social benefits cuts, speaking in cuts in family allowances, speaking in cuts in pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u150	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u151	Mrs Elza Pais, if you give us more time, I will send you the Memorandum, I will send you the PEC (Stability and Growth Programme) and until I send you your election promises, because before 2009 what you did was increases in public service as there had not been since 2001! But what happened when they won the elections in 2009? Courts in public service as there has not been since 2001! That is the mark of the Socialist Party. Madam Member, you can discuss with me whether the Socialist Party has done "more so" for being ill-intentioned or if it has become "more incompetence" but what happened has happened! So don't tell us that we have a past of bad memory, because we are not ashamed, we are rather proud to have removed the country from bankruptcy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u152	They're not ashamed, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u153	Exactly! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u154	It wasn't for us, it was because the Portuguese needed someone to do it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Madam Member, I have been careful that all the things I said about that rostrum correspond to the facts! As is true of facts what is written in the Memorandum of Understanding, which were the gentlemen who wrote and who come here to say that it was us who did it. [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] If you want, the PS to schedule a debate on this subject alone and we'll be here to remember everything that's left behind. Are you speaking of new generations? Oh, my God! From generational inequality? Oh, my God! Madam Member, you have dropped our proposal to include an intergenerational equity report! Do you know what that would mean, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u155	The proposal was bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u156	Was it bad? Oh, my God! The honourable Member does not know what the proposal was saying, but I will explain it to her.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u158	Look what I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u159	No, I didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u160	The proposal said only this: that the social security sustainability report should include a report on intergenerational equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u161	You expelled people, expelled young people. Aren't you ashamed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u162	This means that all Portuguese were aware of the impact of each measure. It was not just that government, it was the generational impact of each measure taken in this country. And what did you guys do? They've dropped the proposal! [[Protests by PS Members Elza Pais and Jamila Madeira.]] It is that whenever there is transparency, and well, you are plummeting, just as the committee has been set up to discuss the reform of the sustainability of social security — that sometimes they insist that it is a problem, but that it is not a problem at other times — knowing that your sustainability report says that the balance of the financial cushion is exhausted in 2040! But then they don't want to say what that means to a person who is 52 years old today! I don't give that balance for two years, Your Honor! Do not come to tell me, do not come to tell us what is the sustainability of the new generations, because in that, Mrs. Member, to all generations, and with all transparency, they do not teach us lessons! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u163	You've driven out many young people! [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u164	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we have been confronted with a debate about poverty and inequality in Portugal. The question that arises is this: can a party, can a politician, can an ideology, on behalf of the poor, in the name of those who suffer most in the name of fighting inequality, increase poverty, increase inequality? Can a politician constantly have the poorest in his mouth and, in the daily practice of the measures he implements, turn his back on them and make his situation worse? Can you or can't you? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it can, and the Portuguese are well aware, for example, of what is happening in Venezuela right now. Is it true, or not, that a regime, in the name of the poorest, in the name of the fight against inequality, has severely aggravated suffering, has increased inequality, has thrown into the misery a whole people?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u166	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u167	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u168	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u169	It's true! Is it true or not it true that historically, regimes supported by these left-wing benches have thrown into the misery of whole peoples, torturing them with authoritarianism? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] It's true! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to go back 30, 40 or 50 years, you don't have to change latitude and go to Venezuela! When, in Portugal, you tell a poor man from the city of Braga that can't be cared for at the best hospital in the country simply because it is managed by private initiative, even if it is cheaper for taxpayers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u170	It's never cheaper!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u171	... what is being done is to contribute to the increase of poverty! [[CDS-PP applause.]] When it is told to public officials that they cannot be well cared for with ADSE, that they have to be treated badly, because the state is bad payer, does not pay the debts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u172	Is the SNS being misattended?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u173	... and those who provide the services well have to go out, what you are doing is contributing to poverty in Portugal! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and José Moura Soeiro.]] When social conflict increases with orders which repeatedly decree minimum services, when contributing to the incompatibility of social sectors, trade unions and government, what is being done is to contribute to the increase of poverty in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u175	Ladies and gentlemen. Members spoke a lot about 2013. God wants us not to discuss 2020 tomorrow, 2021, 2022, because the policies they are implementing—and that is what they should have discussed here today! — they are exacerbating poverty in Portugal because they are not contributing to economic growth and much less to its distribution. That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u176	Look at the turn you're going to take!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what was expected of this debate by the Socialist Party was not to discuss the past, but rather to discuss the future and to demonstrate that this government is committed to reducing poverty, increasing wealth, contributing to development and also contributing to the end of hunger situations like those of our schools today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, give up the propaganda. Look carefully at the data on the number of students who say that they are often or always hungry, who lie hungry! In 2017 it was 3, 8 %, when in 2010 it was 1, 5 % and 1, 2 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't look at reality. They don't hide behind the statistics. The Portuguese know well — I repeat, the Portuguese know well! — that the propaganda coming from the socialist bench does not correspond to the conditions they are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u179	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u180	I conclude now, Mr President. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Portuguese ask us to see the page and do it as quickly as possible, because I never — I repeat, never! — the lie was the path to the future. Certainly, the way of the future of the Portuguese does not cross with the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u181	The higher the right screams, the better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u182	That applies to what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u183	The higher the right screams, the better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u184	Mr Catarina Marcelino, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about poverty and inequality in Portugal, it is imperative to talk about before the crisis and austerity and after the crisis and austerity. In 2011 the poverty risk rate was 17, 9 % and in 2015 it had reached 19 %. As regards the intensity of poverty, which allows to assess the extent to which the average available income of the poor is approaching or away from the poverty threshold, in 2011 was 24, 1 % and in 2015 26, 6 %. We can say, without hesitation, that in the period of crisis and austerity increased the risk of poverty, increased the severity of poverty, increased the poverty of children, young people, the elderly and families, increased the alarming risk of poverty among workers and forced us to emigrate. Economics, unemployment, and investment in social policies are the main reasons for this breakdown. in this period, between 2011 and 2015, when people most needed social support, what the PSD/CDS government did was to change the reference values of the RSI ( social income of insertion) and the CSI, making access to benefits more difficult. It is good to remember that, during this period, the Government has sent for mobility 700 workers of social security, evading the State's social protection functions and the capacity for intervention of services; and it has extended, throughout the country, social canteens, a kind of soup of the poor takeaway. Those who do not understand that social minimums are one of the most powerful weapons in poverty-fighting policies will never realize how to combat poverty and inequalities in the perspective of citizenship and inclusion. First of all, this government recovered social minimum policies by replacing the reference values of the ISR and the ISC, allowing more people to be able to access these powerful instruments to combat poverty, in addition to having made three extraordinary increases in lower pensions. For people with disabilities, the single benefit was created, a significant leap in the performance for this population. One of the greatest difficulties of the most deprived families and with less financial resources is access to a balanced and regular diet, which satisfies hunger, but which, from a nutritional point of view, is balanced and contributes to the health of people in their aggregate. There are several paths that can be followed. As the former Government has done, it is possible to extend the social canteens to all deprived persons, in a caretentialist view, withdrawing their right of choice over their diet, removing the normal capacity of the daily household aggregates. This government has chosen another way: it has implemented the Operational Programme of Support for the Most Deprived People through the regular distribution of food cassavas. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, so far, have been distributed throughout the territory more than 13 500 tonnes of goods and supported more than 30 000 family aggregates, covering 80 000 recipients. They are involved in this effort 735 entities, always relying on the full collaboration of the IPSS, which are undisturbed in the implementation of the policy to combat poverty. In Portugal, families with children are those who lead the risk of poverty and therefore the change in family allowance values in the first three steps for children up to 3 years and the replacement of the 4. the step, with an increase for children of single-parent families and children with disabilities, thus creating conditions so that they can attend day care responses before the age of preschool integration in public school, which was extended to children from 3 years old, on the path of universalization. It would add the historical investment in the freeness of school textbooks and in the strengthening programme for the reduction of school dropout that in 2017 reached very encouraging values. Finally, I wanted to say that exclusion and inequalities have a strong territorial and housing component. It is essential that a local basic policy be placed, calling for participation by the parish, municipalities and social institutions, printing rationality to the available resources, in a policy logic on the right path. Follow-up is not socialism! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also important to talk about housing, program 1. the law and the so important decline in the price of social passes, giving the opportunity to mobility. Portugal, which had the objective of reducing 200 000 people at risk of poverty and exclusion by 2020, has already achieved and exceeded this design by more than 500 000. More than we have doubled the target set by the European strategy. We know which policies are effective and which are not. There's no excuse, this fight summons us all! The Republic will only come true when poverty is banned and the inequalities mitigated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u186	Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there was no other reason, the simple fact of clarifying here this afternoon the world that separates the right from the parties to the left was enough reason enough. The fight against inequality and poverty is here. It's in each of us's heads. It is done by ideas, by knowing what each party thinks, and we realize, this afternoon, that there are parties in this House who realize that what has been done in the last three years has been positive. There are parties in this House who have ideas to improve the work that has been done, but we also realize in this House that there are parties without ideas and that there are still parties looking for ideas. The intervention of the PSD is very significant in this void of ideas and in this lack and need to seek ideas. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] The PSD discourse is not « depressing », as the CDS said. The PSD discourse itself is a poverty in itself. If there is capacity they have revealed, it was the ability to walk back.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u188	That's great! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u189	We already knew that the PSD has gone through all its governance walking back and, once again, today, here, this has become evident. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] The PSD dropped the utopia of the fight against poverty, dropped the utopia of the fight against inequalities, not one word for the Portuguese. [[Protests by PSD MPs Clara Marques Mendes and Joana Barata Lopes.]] Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, the Portuguese aren't numbers, they're not statistics, they're people! in the last three years, 520 000 people came out of the vulnerability situation in which they were, many of them from VV responsibility. Ex.. In Portugal, indicators fell to more than twice as much of Europe. In 2016 and 2017, Portugal was the second country in the European Union where poverty and social exclusion were most reduced. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not due to PSD/CDS governance. on the contrary, in this period, governance with the troika, in which the PSD and the CDS were beyond what is required, have put thousands of people in poverty. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Poverty has been reduced because the Government of the Socialist Party has a strategy and continues with that strategy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has never given up on this fight, and it has done so at the beginning, contrary to what is going on in the head of the right. He did this fight, rejecting the idea of impoverishment as the only way, rejecting the idea that the country would not be competitive if he did not settle his economy in low wages, in cheap labor. He did this fight, contradicting the idea that we have to work longer hours. He fought this fight, contrary to the idea that holidays, holidays and bridges were unnecessary privileges. We did this fight, denying the idea that public services are luxurious rights, led by lascivious officials and worse managers. We have done this fight and we will do it every day, if necessary, to counter the idea that health, education, social security systems are better if they are privatized or participated by privates, as was quite clear here. So we started an alternative path in 2015. We walk alone in Europe, with our electoral programme, with our Government Programme. We have successfully won the importance of the return of income policy to ensure sustainable growth, which we have, budgetary balance, that we have, and above all, to effectively combat poverty. We have eliminated the overtax; we have revoked your cuts in pensions and wages; we have increased the progressiveity of the IRS (tax on income of natural people); we have resumed the updating of pensions, extraordinary pensions; we have recovered the social protection of the most vulnerable, the unemployed, the elderly, with a solidarity supplement for the elderly; we have worked specific policies in the fight against child poverty; we have fought unemployment; we have created more and better jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, they ask: "Is everything done? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I'm saying no, he's not. We still have to walk, because 1, 78 million Portuguese continue to be at risk of poverty and it is for them that the PS works on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u190	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u191	I will finish, Mr. President. We'll move forward if we don't go back, and just look at the right. We will move forward with the Socialist Party. The conclusion of this debate is simple: there is a world that separates the right from the left and, in order to be well written on the stone, we are not all equal. Inequality, poverty and exclusion are not inevitable. And, yes, the fight is done here, and it's done with the PS! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u192	PS is the party to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-13.u193	We have reached the end of this debate and our agenda for today. Tomorrow we have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. and the first item on the agenda is an up-to-date discussion required by the PSD on the theme « rail gauge ». The discussion of the Bill No 173 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — regulates the operation of unmanned civil aircraft systems ( drones) in national airspace. in the third point, the Proposal for Law No 174 / XIII / 4 will be assessed. a ( GOV ) — Reforms and expands the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE ). in the fourth point, debate-CL will be the draft resolution No 1965 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP, PSD, PS and BE ) — Constitution II Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the management of the bank. of the fifth point is the joint assessment of draft Law Nos 834 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Creates an informal regulation mechanism of IRS declarations due to judicial decisions involving returns to taxpayers of wrongly charged tax benefits and 1102 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — establishes, in addition to Law No 9 / 2019 of 1 February, a mechanism for the informal regularization of IRS declarations as a result of judicial decisions involving returns to taxpayers of wrongly charged tax benefits. in the sixth point, the discussion of draft Law No 1070 / XIII / 4 will be carried out. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 466 / 99 of 6 November 1999, which deals with the elimination of the possibility of reducing the value of the blood price pension when it results from the death of disabled armed forces. Finally, in the seventh and final point the joint assessment of Bills Nos 937 / XIII / 3 will take place. a ( The Greens) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods and 1100 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The labelling rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms in by-products of animals, meals and non-packaged products are made more transparent. All of you, a good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 16 hours and 56 minutes.]]
