ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 14 hours and 31 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to do the favor of opening the galleries to the public. Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that the Socialist Party has requested the withdrawal of the Bill No 720 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — establishes the scheme applicable to the out-of-court collection of overdue claims and to undertakings engaged in this activity, a diploma that has already been assessed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first item on our agenda consists of the assessment of the Bill No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the arrangements applicable to the inventory process and drafts of Law No 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code by establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and by setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Change the legal regime of the inventory process by strengthening the general control powers of the judge. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Mesquita. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u4	Mr President, and I would like to congratulate the whole Bureau, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Government is presenting to this House an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, which is mainly related to the inventory process. The transfer of competence for the treatment of the inventory processes of the courts to the notaries aimed to expedite that treatment and decongestion of the judicial system. However, the implementation of this solution, in addition to having never obtained the consensus of the legal community and judicial and non-judicial operators, has, as we know, faced insurmountable challenges, from the outset due to the absence in 92 municipalities of private notary charter. This happened especially in the districts of Portalegre, Beja, Évora and in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in which there are several islands without notary. Then, due to the deficit in the protection of the incapacities, which are the greatest and most absent, resulting from the non-intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the notary inventory. Finally, because of the large number of cases, there are unregulated times of resolution, with serious damage both to the legal situation of citizens and to the collective interest of the planning of the territory. I should therefore like to briefly summarize the essential features of the amendment which is intended to take effect. As regards inventory processes, it is intended to ensure the practical agreement of all interests in attendance. To this end, a competing principle of competence is established, allowing the user of the justice service, as a rule, the option for recourse to the court or notary office, in accordance with the judgment of the court itself in the specific case on the quality, efficiency and speed of that service, as provided by the judge or Mr Notary. Since the scheme now establishing the intervention of the notary in the inventory will become optional, it would be unreasonable to impose on all notaries the task of proceeding with the inventory, thus showing that it is more appropriate to establish the system on an optional basis as well, i.e. to allow the taking of this competence only to the Members. Notaries that are interested and available for their exercise. From another point of view, interested parties are allowed to choose the notary chart in which they intend to establish an inventory, as there is a relevant connection between the notary chosen and the sharing. The judicial inventory process is all recoded in the Civil Procedure Code with a minimum disturbance of its systematic. The process, which is largely simplified, follows the principle of unity, being essentially similar either the inventory is processed before the judge or before the notary, only providing for the specificities imposed by the decision maker to be a notary. Finally, the cases in which the pending notary inventories are to be transferred to the competent court are regulated. I would also like to point out that, in addition to these amendments concerning the inventory process, there are still some other very specific aspects to which the need for reinstatement is at all consolidated, as is the case only exemplifying, with the amendment of the system of appeal of judgments given to the alert, due to the non-coupling of the action, thus increasing the protection of the defendant's side, the strengthening of the protection of the house of the executed and the protection of the consumer as regards illegal or abusive contractual clauses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u5	To present the PCP bills, Mr. João Oliveira has the floor. Before that, I ask the honourable Members. Members wishing to participate in the debate which, during this intervention, please register in good time. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: The CFP has submitted these two draft laws because it considers that, either in relation to the protection of the house of residence, or in relation to matters relating to the inventory process, it is necessary and useful that this legislative process may have other proposals which, by going further than the proposal submitted by the Government, can fully respond to the problems put in these two matters. We generally follow the Government's proposal for a law, we have no fundamental objection to putting the solutions that the Government brings to the discussion, but we believe that in relation to the protection of the family home it is necessary to go further because there are still many family situations which, after losing their jobs after they have lost their income and livelihoods, are still forced to lose their home in the context of executive processes. We believe that the law determines particularly penalizing conditions of basic and fundamental rights of families, such as the right to housing, which end up being secondary to the satisfaction of credits, in particular in banking debt processes, and, in many circumstances, the outcome of these processes that are completely incomprehensible, having situations of families losing their homes when they are executed for the satisfaction of irrevocable debts. They are numerous and they are situations that revolt people, of course, and with justification. In addition, at the time of the revision of the Civil Procedure Code in 2013 the CFP alerted, in its declaration of vote, the circumstance of allowing the loss of housing to someone who takes the national minimum wage and has a debt of €800. These are truly incomprehensible, wrong situations in terms of protecting the fundamental rights of families, particularly the right to housing, and over time we have come forward with proposals for this problem to be solved. What we are proposing is, in summary, the following: the CFP proposes that the possibility of repossession and execution of mortgages on housing may be restricted in situations where not all the possibilities for payment of substantial part of the amount in debt are exhausted; we propose that the possibility of penor or execution of mortgages on housing may be eliminated if there are not sufficient income to ensure the survival of the executed or of its household aggregate, including in the context of the fiscal execution process; and in the other situations we propose that the possibility of penor or execution of mortgage on housing may be restricted to situations where it is not possible to guarantee for the pension of other goods or income the payment of at least two thirds of the amount in debt within the time set for payment of the loan granted for the purchase of the property, and these are the situations that most cause this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u7	You've run out of time, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u8	We also propose that in relation to the sale of real estate itself, that is, even when there is execution of the pen or mortgage, that the sale of the property can only be realized when the amount to be made with that sale is greater than would be obtained with the expense of other goods or incomes of the executed, including the incomes of third parties that the executed indicate, of course, that with the agreement of the third party. In other words, where possible with any other solution satisfy the amount corresponding to the amount by which the property will be sold, the housing of persons must be protected and these other goods or incomes must be damaged, preserving the right to the housing of the executed. With these solutions, we are proposing, in fact, to defend the right to housing. With regard to the inventory, we welcome the proposed government law and this amendment, in order to allow the possibility of processing of inventory proceedings in court or in the notary registers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u9	You must conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u10	We also want to publicly welcome here the contribution made by the Order of Notaries in assessing these initiatives, including the PCP bill, which we very much appreciate, and we believe that it is also possible in this area, even with this optional regime, to correct some of the aspects that still remain in force today and that will be maintained even with this possibility, in particular by strengthening control by the judge of aspects that seem more sensitive to us, such as those related to the denial, seizure or sale of goods, which are always aspects that give greater concern and that we believe that they may be careful with the intervention of the judge. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Secretary of State and, by complimenting her, I am sorry, because today is a day of discussion on matters of justice, the Minister of Justice is not present and this shows the importance that the Government attaches to such transversal matters, so important to our judicial system and to the citizens. [[That's right! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u13	I have to say the same about the bill on the inventory process. The Government has been promising this initiative throughout the legislature. It presents it almost in time for it not even to be able to discuss and vote, and essentially to discuss in the specialty, as if it did not want it to be, in fact, discussed and seriously addressed by political parties and society. This is another regret I have to leave. In addition, the Secretary of State, contrary to what she says here, the inventory system that actually entered into force from 2013 onwards—because in 2009 a government of the party that supported her tried to do this dematerialization that later was implemented in 2013—has already had a paradigm change in implementation, as you know. This dual system, which, after all, and despite saying that it does not work, remains, and well, in the opinion of the PSD. In fact, when it comes to a new regime there are always constraints, difficulties and certain aspects that need to be improved, of course. Never when a regime is new can it be closed, it has to be evaluated, and, as a result of its first or second evaluation, after consolidated, there are naturally adjustments and small successes that have to be made. The lack of cartories is one of the constraints and this option, also because of the number of processes that sometimes accumulate in some notaries, is to applaud. However, the truth is that it is not the morosity that is at issue, because we were 20 years old before we were able to solve an inventory, Mr. Secretary of State. Therefore, this is a non-argument, because the great delay in the processes was always the drama of those who dealt in the courts with the inventory processes. However, we hope that, in spite of everything, the opinions of the various entities linked to the sector can be taken into account, which will draw attention to the need to make important corrections to these amendments to the proposed regime. There we will be to be constructive in this process. As for the proposal of the CFP, which is indeed a visit, too, because it has already come here, under a cover of apparent kindness of concern to people, forgets most people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in advancing this initiative, the only thing that would be accomplished is that thousands and thousands of families in this country could never access credit again. This would be the reality, then. But would any banking entity lend money, grant mortgages, have guarantee rights on a property, if then, according to your claims, you could never see your credits satisfied? Oh, my God! Would any particular use a guarantee right on any property to then not be able to see your credit satisfied? Mrs. Members, it is not superimposed one right to another, because the dignity of people is not maintained with these great announcements and apparent kindness but, rather, with the right to a house, a decent and proper housing, which is an obligation of the State, a social state that cares about its citizens. Yes, social justice is done there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u14	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u15	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Parliament today is discussing a bill which, by amending the system applicable to the inventory process, repeals the legal regime of the inventory process operated by Law No 23 / 2013, which is thus repealed. It is also worth saying that Parliament corrects today — in fact, it will correct tomorrow — the error that was the adoption of this law in the previous Parliament, a mistake of the entire responsibility of PSD and CDS, which was approved by the votes against the PS, the PCP, the Left and Green bloc. It is true that the one who is presented today as the PSD spokesperson for the area of justice and, to whom I believe, candidates to join this plenary after the October elections has always enlarged the chorus of the voices that denounced the error committed and claimed its correction, as well mirrored when he was interviewed by a well-known weekly, entitled « PSD wants to reverse reforms of Paula Teixeira da Cruz ». He was therefore very old with the statement by Mr Peixoto that in the previous Parliament intervention in defense of the law which will now be repealed, saying, "But there is a certainty: that this law will certainly serve the interests of the citizens and the country better". As it is obvious to everyone today, it has not served. The inventory processes will therefore return to the courts, from which, it is unanimous conclusion, they should not have left. And they will also return, as the Secretary of State mentioned, in a way that does not gather, if not unanimity, at least a very broad consensus, through a principle of competing competence, where the citizens will choose between processing the inventories, either in the courts, or in the notary books, but also on an optional basis, that is, by allowing the notaries themselves to be able to acquiesce in the processing of their books—it was a claim to those professionals to which the government, and well, corresponds. The inventory returns to the courts and returns the inventory process to the Civil Procedure Code, proceeding to recoding with the minimum of disturbance to its systematic. Also in the Code of Civil Procedure, it is emphasized that the proposal for a law improves the current system of impeachment of sentences given to the reveillance of the defendant and the execution of the defendants, instead of protecting the unsuspected ignorance of the action, thus making better what is supposed to be done, i.e. justice. Finally, the proposed law aims to strengthen the protection of the home of the family, restricting the possibility of its plight, without prejudice, notes - and it is good to underline - its maintenance as a general guarantee of obligations. That is, the purpose of obsessing the financial asphyxiation of the debtor and the loss of his home, in manifestly avoidable cases and without frustration of the legitimate expectations of the creditors, can only deserve our applause. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and with this in conclusion, the period we have for the final approval of this bill is indisputably demanding, but I am sure that all of you and all of you. Members will recognize the importance of adopting until the last plenary session of this Parliament. On the side of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we will do everything we can to make this happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u16	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State: The solution to the dejudicialization of inventories was all to recognize a gross error. An error that, in fact, shows how the privatization of justice, so enshrined in the name of the decongesting of courts and other important values, is nothing more, nothing less than an ambush, a mist and an unfair ambush. With this privatisation of the inventory regime, justice has been denied to our compatriots from about 92 municipalities where there is no private notary chart. The guarantees of minors, of the largest children, of those absent due to the non-intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the notarial inventory have decreased. There has been a very significant number of rustic buildings and forest buildings under long-term individence arrangements, with all the social and environmental consequences arising there. That is why we had to review — and review deeply — this regime, reversing a mistake that has long been seen as such. The solution proposed by the Government on this initiative seems to us to be a rather vague solution, even because the competing competence between the courts and the notary books, with a voluntary scheme for notaries and a voluntary scheme for the parties, is something that does not at all solve the problem that is being created. It is as if it were establishing a maximum of a foreign country which is « one country, two systems » in inventory. There is no solution, there is great confusion. It would have been the right solution, purely and simply, to reprisal the regime that was in force until this disparate solution was adopted which still governs us. Therefore, the return, although optional and partial, from inventory to the courts can be the beginning of a path—and so we assume it and no more than that—but, of course, that raises an additional problem: if the inventories return to the courts, then they are given the human resources courts, of course, in judicial officers and magistrates capable of effectively solving this problem. This is a challenge that is being launched throughout the House and that the Left Block assumes entirely. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u18	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: First of all, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to bring us this initiative and finally to see the light of the day, but also to leave it to you, the Secretary of State, a vehement protest, not only because you are not here today, the Minister of Justice - there are four initiatives from the farm of the Minister of Justice and it was important that she be here because they are not matters of mere importance — but, above all, by bringing us initiatives which will be virtually impossible to conclude in good time. That's sad and it's regrettable that it is. Why would I tell you that? Because 15 days from the end of the work, 15 days from now, I repeat, the Secretary of State, what we see is that the Government has now decided to legislate to run and bring here a number of initiatives which, basically, will not want to be completed, because it is obviously impossible. With regard to this matter, the solution of giving citizens the choice to be able to make and process their inventories, either in court or in the notary, is good, but it was obvious, Mr. Secretary of State. So we don't understand why it took so long. Notice : this is a solution that the Minister of Justice announced in 2017, the Minister constituted a working group in 2018 for this purpose and only now, one and a half years later, is that the solution arises. And the government wants us to treat, in a week and a half, what the government has taken at least a year and a half to solve. But, finally, Madam Secretary of State, we will make every effort to pass this law. And we will do it for two essential reasons. The first concerns, of course, the fact that we cannot continue to be unable to witness the complications that have occurred in the context of the sharing of citizens who cannot do so in good time. That's how it was before. This is a question which comes from behind and which has not happened exclusively because of the fact that the proceedings have been followed for processing in the notaries. This was already the case, as you know, and very well before, when they were treated exclusively in the courts and, therefore, beyond this solution, it is obviously necessary to equip the courts — and notaries will also have to do — of means for this reality to be effectively treated as it must be. But, finally, this is a solution to a problem that was great and that we will accept. Secondly, we also support this initiative because, on the basis of this amendment to the inventory process, it brings us here an innovation that is to be applauded, which is the strengthening of the protection of the housing itself and permanently executed. This is a solution that comes in the wake of what the then Minister for Social Security, Pedro Mota Soares, inaugurated in the sense that the family residence was the last good to be undermined by social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u20	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u21	This solution goes further and goes well. And why is it going well? In the CDS we argue that debts have to be paid, they can't stop being paid and that's a point of honor for us. But that doesn't mean it can be done wildly. Therefore, the consecration in law that only the permanent dwelling house can be regretted from a certain value, if there is no other property that can respond, in a reasonable time, to that debt, is a balanced exit and that the CDS suffers. We are hoping, Madam Secretary of State, to go in time to welcome you at this moment. The CDS will do everything possible to do so, but time does not play for us and, therefore, we will see if it is possible to receive it immediately. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u22	To close this debate, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome and thank all the parliamentary committees for their contributions to this initiative, which is, in fact, a much-awaited initiative, as I said, not only by the judicial operators, but also by those who are not judicial operators, particularly, and that is what everyone is interested in, by the citizens who need to solve such problems. As we all know, in most situations, when sharing which is a judicial sharing, a sharing in which there is a conflict, there are problems that, in many of these situations, demand the intervention of a court. So that's what we're doing. With regard to a few more detailed aspects, of course, that we, the Government, are confident in the common sense and in the Member States' weighting capacity. Members, who will then make the necessary adjustments in the field of expertise. As regards the question put by Mr. João Oliveira, of course the Government is sensitive to all the difficulties, in particular of an economic nature, which put the most disadvantaged people in order to fail to fulfil their obligations and, in particular, when they are in the immediate vicinity of losing the most sacred good that is indeed their home. Now this will have to be the subject of some weighting, which we, the Ministry of Justice, consider to have done in balanced terms in the solution that we present, because it is also important to guard against other values, namely the question of trust which, if put here at issue, might hinder the access itself to the acquisition of a housing by banking institutions. But, finally, this weighting will be better done in the field of specialty. Regarding the PSD intervention, of course this solution has already come from behind, but reality has shown that indeed it did not translate into the expected response. The reasons why this has not happened are several, but, finally, more than persisting in the mistake, it is important to repair it. And since we clearly have a situation of denial of justice in this case, the Ministry of Justice has given rise to work, after hearing not only the Order of Advocates, but also the Order of Notaries itself, and we have therefore presented here to this House a proposal to amend this regime which, I believe, will meet with all that also calls for the good sense of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, and I have no doubt that you will agree that this is one of the best solutions we could find.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u24	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u25	It is not here to pass any evidence of failure to respond by the notaries, it is only to recognize it from evidence: they probably did not have the means nor were they able to give an answer that would speed up the resolution of a question which often brings very serious problems to families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u27	I will now finish, Mr President. from that time we have established the possibility for citizens to opt for the court or notarial chart, as they feel more comfortable and have guarantees of a more appropriate response. With regard to the burden of work that may eventually lead to the return of many of these cases to the courts and to the need to seize this court, I would like to remind this House that this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u28	Madam Secretary of State, please conclude for the third time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u29	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I would like to remind this House that this government has reopened all the courts that have been closed, providing them with means so that all criminal judgements of the competence of the singular judge and all judgments of up to EUR 50 000 can be carried out there, and that we have a strike here, in particular in the civil area, in which the response of the Portuguese courts to what are the requests has been excellent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u30	Madam Secretary of State, we must accept the recommendation of the table! I ask you to conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u31	It will also be a way of valuing the interior and the services we have there through this return of competences. This will give even more existence to these courts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u32	The Bureau is, of course, tolerant, but I also ask you to do so. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government shall cooperate with the discipline which the Bureau may impose. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in Law Proposals Nos 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime of the European arrest warrant and 192 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — implements Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, implementing enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. To present the legislative initiatives of the Government, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Mesquita Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the presentation of this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, the Government intends to adapt the regime of Law No 65 / 2003, which, as you know, approved the regime of the European arrest warrant, the European investigation decision regime, thus harmonizing the implementation of the European arrest warrant with the implementation of a European investigation decision including the hearing of the person sought or his temporary transfer. Indeed, as we know, Law No 88 / 2017, which transposed the Directive on the European Criminal Investigation Decision, has established the legal regime for the issue, transmission, recognition and enforcement of European Research Decisions. It tells us, however, the experience of practical application of this instrument that it has been revealing some entropies in the link between the European Research Decision and the regimes of the European Arrest Warrant and the transmission and enforcement of judgments in criminal matters, so it is intended, through the proposed amendments, to ensure the appropriate linkage between these two schemes. On the other hand — and this is particularly relevant — the current amendment is used to eliminate the incompatibility between Article 2 ( 3 ). Article 12 ( 1 ) and ( a ). the Law No 65 / 2003, of 23 August 2003. In fact, much of the effectiveness of the European arrest warrant is due to the fact that, for the 32 categories of infringements listed in Article 2 ( 2 ). the, the delivery of the person sought does not depend on a control of the requirement of double incrimination. If any other infringement is involved, the surrender of the person claimed, in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article, shall be admissible only if the facts justifying the issue of the order constitute an infringement punishable by Portuguese law. Article 12 ( 1 ), point ( a ), succeeds. it provides that, if this condition does not occur, the non-execution of the order is merely optional and not compulsory. The contradiction between the two standards is thus absolutely undeniable. It is now clear that the failure to verify double criminality, in cases where it is a condition of admissibility of delivery of the person sought, is a reason for the mandatory non-execution of the European arrest warrant in question. The information rights to the person covered by the European arrest warrant are also strengthened. At the same time, an attempt is made to bring the diploma into line with the provisions of Law No 158 / 2015 of 17 September 2015 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to criminal judgements imposing penalties or other deprivation of liberty for the purposes of implementing those judgments in the European Union. Finally, and in order to carry out an integrated review of these three Union legal instruments, the provisions of Law No 158 / 2015 of 17 September are improved in order to clarify their regime, in particular as regards competence. The internal procedure for the recognition and confirmation in the domestic legal order of criminal judgments issued by the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union is also defined in order to ensure effective protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the defendants, in accordance with the principle of effective protection and the right to a fair and fair trial. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u34	Before giving the floor to the next inscribed speaker, I would ask the honourable Members. Members of the parliamentary groups who wish to sign up for this debate are in favour of doing so. Mr Rui Cruz, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u35	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice and Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members : Having returned two years of the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it will finally reach Portugal. In 2017, the European Council created a European Public Prosecutor's Office, with the power to investigate, prosecute and bring to trial perpetrators and accomplices of crimes and offences harmful to the financial interests of the Union and its Member States. It is a strengthened cooperation mechanism, as has been said, with competences for the exercise of criminal action in the participating Member States, which deals with complex crimes involving several actors, well-developed fraudulent mechanisms and various jurisdictions. The difference in legal and criminal systems, the uncertainty as to jurisdiction, the size of the resources involved and, above all, the different priorities assigned to research by the Member States add difficulties to the process. The European Public Prosecutor's Office seeks to overcome these obstacles by acting as a single body in all participating Member States. On the other hand, after five years, an integrated review of three Union legal instruments — the warrant, the decision and the recognition of sentences — is carried out in accordance with national law. The short practical application experience of these instruments has already revealed a number of apparently and initially ill-weighted entropies. Indeed, it becomes difficult to find an irreprehensible legislative initiative, from its genesis to its proliferation. Indeed, in the government, quickly and well, there is no one. These initiatives, because they promote or refine mechanisms to combat corruption and fraud, are worthy of our support and applause. Even because Portugal continues to appear in international reports as a bad student in the fight against corruption. The Minister did not know, or did not want, to give more strength, depth and effectiveness to criminal investigation. Much more should have been done to combat corruption, which undermines and impairs economic growth, not reducing it as a priority. It would be said that the government was in a contemplative state, contemplating the difficulties without giving them a solution. the courts lacked more operational autonomy and specialized employees. Research has lacked more means and measures, new strategies and more motivation. There have been numerous cases of lack of speech and commitment. The PSD has tried, in particular, at the state budget, to provide the judiciary with an additional EUR 5 million to strengthen criminal investigation. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u36	But the PS has plummeted. the Ministry and the Justice have failed to do much more — and so the Minister in the Commission assumed it — because it was actually possible to do more, sooner and faster. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u37	I'll make a call again to the ladies. Members who wish to intervene shall sign up for this purpose. Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Under-Secretary of State and Justice: The Government brings the debate on this plenary two initiatives on criminal action at European level. I will refer to the European Public Prosecutor's Office only. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution established to investigate the fraud against the financial interests of the European Union. And we are asking the question of what financial interests the European Union has, which is basically the legal good that is protected here. For example, does a rating agency rise or decrease the value of a particular economy to the taste of interests and the calculation of « capital gains », commit or not an infringement against the financial interests of the European Union? And who are the subjects of these offences? When a State successively accumulates surpluses against treaties, does it or does it not commit an infringement against the financial interests of the European Union? In other words, will the European Public Prosecutor's Office conduct criminal investigations against certain States that commit these offences, against certain actors who commit these offences? These are issues that, of course, should be answered. It is true that there are practices of economic crime established in the European Union covered by regimes that are welcomed by Member States, regimes such as visasgold and offshore regimes, or the non-resident regime, as well as regimes that provide tax evasion and tax evasion or money laundering. Effectiveness therefore recommends strong forms of cooperation and scale adequacy. In this bill, there are several inconsistencies, in fact, pointed out in the opinions that have been issued, of course, by the Attorney-General of the Republic, in the forecasting of the types of crime involved here or in the very identification of who can be a European prosecutor. All this is necessary, of course, to correct the work of speciality, because otherwise what we will have before us is a figure that risks creating more entropy where it should not exist, which is precisely in the effective, determined, courageous and politically committed fight against economic crime, whoever its actor is, whatever practice is involved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u39	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u40	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice and Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: I begin by saying that in order to refute the reference made by the PSD to the lack of commitment of this government to combat corruption, it is enough to mention the investment made, in particular, in the means of the Public Prosecutor and the Judicial Police and to compare it with what was done by the previous Government, to say that this could only have been a statement of bad conscience. Turning to the point before us, it has already been mentioned that, on the one hand, the Proposal for a Law No 192 / XIII / 4. the aim is to implement in our legal order the European Regulation establishing enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Jurisdictions for the exercise of criminal action in the Member States as regards infringements affecting the financial interests of the European Union, in particular crimes which are, in recognition of their existence, increasingly complex, which may involve various actors, using fraudulent mechanisms that affect various jurisdictions of the Member States of the European Union. That is why the success of the investigation and the effectiveness of the investigation require a thorough knowledge of the applicable legal framework, especially since the difficulty of effective cooperation between the Member States lies in the difference between the legal and criminal systems, uncertainty as to the jurisdiction, the burden of the resources involved and the different priorities assigned by the Member States to the investigations. The European Public Prosecutor's Office seeks to overcome obstacles related to constraints in cooperation between Member States and differences and uncertainties in the various legal systems, operating as a single body in all participating Member States, not depending on traditional instruments of European Union law for cooperation between the various judicial authorities, within that scope. On the other hand, as has already been said here, the Proposal for a Law No 193 / XIII / 4. the promotion of the amendment to the European arrest warrant regime following the approval of Law No 88 / 2017 of 21 August has carried out the transposition of the Directive on the European Criminal Investigation Decision. This initiative, described here, harmonizes the implementation of the European arrest warrant with the implementation of a European research decision including the hearing of the person seeking or his temporary transfer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with these two legislative initiatives, the Government once again fulfils the imperative task of improving the legal instruments in force and of developing and implementing European legislation in our legal system in the field of justice and combating crime. As might be expected, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group applauds the relevance and meaning of both initiatives and, in this case too, affirms, from now on, taking into account the external opinions received, its availability for the debate and acceptance of proposals for improvement, as it is itself, in the process of being assessed in the field of expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u41	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: We have here two distinct issues which have as their common denominator the fact that they are supranational, that they respect the European Union. One of them, for which we have no special objection, has to do with the European arrest warrant, and another, which appears more complex in several areas, has to do with the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The latter initiative is a trend which has been taking place in recent years in the European Union to try to impose, by way of regulation, a requirement that is difficult to achieve. We had examples of these. We had an example at the GDPR level ( General Data Protection Regulation ), in which we tried to counter the existence of a personal data directive through a regulation, leaving loose ends, i.e. with a regulation to make its application effective, but then it is found that it does not apply if there is no additional legislation on the part of Member States. And here the same thing happens, i.e. we are moving forward with a European initiative, with a decision at European level, with a regulation that is directly applicable, but which is not then, and that will be the case only when Member States take sovereign decisions on certain elements that allow this to be applied. And here this happens, and it happens at a point that is particularly sensitive and that has to do with the conjugation between national judicial authorities and this so-called European Public Prosecutor's Office. So there is an effort here to try to reconcile what is difficult to reconcile. In other words, the wording adopted is that this European Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible for "infringements affecting the Union's financial interests", which is an extremely vague concept. We are not talking only about aspects of corruption — we will also be at a certain level, because, of course, we know that there is a form of crime that has to do with European funds and deviations from European funds — since the Union's financial interests can go far beyond that and not just refer to this point. But then there are aspects here that have to do with putting national criminal police bodies under the direct direction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is problematic. In other words, there are difficulties of articulation between the national judicial authorities and this European Public Prosecutor's Office, until the exercise of functions in this type of bodies is not the same in terms of appointment as the national judicial authorities. That is, the magistrates of the National Public Prosecutor's Office are not of political appointment, while the European prosecutors are, although there is an intervention, which is not decisive, of the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So there are authorities here who are given judicial powers that do not have the kind of appointment that judicial authorities should have, have a political appointment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u43	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u44	I will finish, Mr. President. So here there is a difficult compatibility with the fundamental principles of our legal order with regard to judicial authorities and the investigation of crimes committed in national territory and, therefore, this initiative will not have our support, insofar as we consider this to be an abusive introduction by European institutions in what must be part of the hard core of State sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u45	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have two initiatives here within the same scope and within the same framework, but of a different nature. With regard to the first, to the European arrest warrant, I wanted to say, essentially, the following: it comes from the so-called Stockholm Programme and its respective directive, which has as its centre, as the heart of the proposal, so to speak, as the Secretary of State explained, the question of whether or not double criminality is required. The fundamental change that we realize is that this initiative is the following: what was so far optional, i.e. the fulfilment of the mandate when there is no such double criminality, no longer possible and, therefore, essentially, it translates a limitation in this matter. at the same time, it does some strengthening of the rights of the defendants, including the right of information on the accusation in particular. Finally, it is an evolution, but it is not a major evolution, and I think that will make the Government and the Secretary of State aware. The Supreme Council of Justice says, in its opinion, that we are faced with fine harmony, I would even say that we are faced with a very small degree of harmony, but, finally, we have nothing to oppose or object. The second diploma deals with the issue of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That too, in our view, is not the point in the proposal. In other words, what is in the proposal is perceptible. It is understandable that a link is sought between what this European Prosecutor's Office is and what the National Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office are, in particular, how the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to intervene, the powers that are assigned to it in relation to that European Prosecutor's Office, establishing the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office in this regard. However, and I certainly do not have the same reading as some of the voices we have heard here, with more critical aspects in relation to this proposal — I can say that Mr. José Manuel Pureza's speech had some critical content and, clearly, critical content also had the speech of Mr.António Filipe — I would like to say that the delimitation of the object of the operation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a matter which is not irrelevant. In fact, it is one thing to be dealing with in the context of what the European budget is strictly, and even there you can ask why it does not work, that is, because that kind of crime has so far not, from a European point of view, sufficient research in the States, particularly in Portugal — to know what the delimitation is, how there is this fight and where it is for that initiative — another thing is to realize the need of this European Public Prosecutor's Office and its link with national responsibilities. Finally, I do not want to talk about other matters but, and still yesterday afternoon we talked about this, sometimes a directorate from a prosecutor's office, up to the national point of view and with two police officers to act, is sufficient to cause problems of articulation, and when we are talking about a new institution, a European prosecutor's office, which has a different form of designation than that of the national prosecutor's office, I think that the delimitation, understanding and accurate perception of what is at stake is relevant, Mrs Secretary of State. Obviously, not being against the initiative at the outset...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u47	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u48	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we obviously want that explanation and understanding. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u49	To conclude the debate on the Bill No 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), addressed to the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u50	Mr President, once again I am grateful for the contributions and would like to say that, as you all know, the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been created and has been entrusted with relevant powers for the exercise of criminal action in the Member States in respect of infringements affecting the financial interests of the European Union. The main objective of the European Public Prosecutor's Office was, precisely, to combat crimes which, directly or indirectly, harm the financial interests of the European Union, thereby strengthening its legal protection. Mrs. Members, these crimes that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will investigate are part of a catalogue that essentially corresponds to the mandate of the OLAF ( European Anti-Fraud Office ). As you know, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a body of the European Union, but with a decentralized structure, which is therefore organised centrally by a European prosecutor, permanent chambers and prosecutors and by delegated prosecutors based in the Member States. As this regulation does not have immediate application, and that is why we are here, what we are now looking for is that it is granted to European prosecutors delegated by national law a functional and legally independent status, with the necessary guarantees of independence from other national bodies, as it could be, but maintaining the necessary coordination and cooperation with the latter. This bill provides for respect for the exercise of the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in national territory, for the equalization of this Prosecutor's Office to the Public Prosecutor's Office in criminal proceedings, for the exercise of the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in national territory, and regulates the terms in which the articulation and cooperation between the national authorities and the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the performance of his duties in national territory is carried out. This proposal also provides for the internal procedure for the appointment of national candidates to the national European Prosecutor, establishing here the intervention of the two Councils, the Superior Council of the Judicial Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, this House and the Government, in order to ensure that the process of designation has the widest possible scrutiny, and the candidates for this post may come from either the Judiciary or the Judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This proposal also regulates the designation and status of national delegated European prosecutors. As you know, the Public Prosecutor's Office is designated as the national authority competent for the purposes of communications, information and consultations with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, because they are confined to the exercise of criminal action. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u51	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u52	In our view, this proposal is intended to implement the European Public Prosecutor's Regulation in the legal order. It is also a contribution towards the proper functioning of the institutions, market regulation, the prevention of crimes which, increasingly, have inter-regional characteristics. Indeed, Mr Rui Cruz, all houses with the investment that this government has made in combating corruption and criminal investigation. With regard to the judicial police, we recently entered 120 inspectors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u53	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u54	... are currently in preparation plus 43 inspectors, soon more 100 inspectors will enter, in addition to we proceed to all the modernization and renewal of the technological equipment that the Judicial Police need to do a successful investigation. And there he is! The results are beginning to come to an end. In fact, we have a police officer attached. Obviously the great point is never reached,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u55	Mr. Secretary of State, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u56	... but this government has not overlooked this prospect of investment so that our police forces, particularly the judicial police, are well equipped. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u57	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to the third item on the agenda, with the general debate of the Bill No 200 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of performing medical and forensic expertise. To submit the bill, she has once again the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill amends the legal regime of the realization of medical and forensic expertise, which, as you know, is provided for in Law No. 45 / 2004, and aims to improve the capacity and efficiency of the expert response by the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences. It is intended, essentially, to change the general picture of the medical-legal investigation in our country, which, as you know, is characterized by a morbidity that we consider excessive, providing the system with new possibilities for response, including exceptional situations that have not yet been considered. This bill provides for autopsies at weekends and holidays, when autopsies are currently only performed during working days. With this measure, the Ministry of Justice ensures the delivery of the bodies to their families without subjecting them to increased penosity of waiting for the weekend, a situation which is an unbearable pain for families who, under circumstances, are already in deep suffering. On the other hand, and in order to overcome the difficulties existing in access to clinical information necessary for expert assessments, this bill enshrines the possibility of electronic access by the experts of the National Institute of Legal Medicine to the necessary elements existing in the cars or in the National Health Service, avoiding delays and costs with the postal service, without, of course, neglecting the fulfilment of the obligations relating to medical secrecy and the secret of justice to which these professionals are linked. In order to make the Institute of Legal Medicine more profitable, this bill also provides for the possibility of doctors from the map—I repeat, doctors from the map, because this is at stake—the National Institute of Legal Medicine has been able to produce additional production in addition to its expert base production, with the aim of recovering dependencies and, consequently, of gradually decreasing the need for recourse to external providers, who have been supporting the medical-legal services for several decades and whose contractualization is foreseen in the current legislation in force. Moreover, in view of the response to disaster or extraordinary situations, this bill reinforces the competence of the National Institute of Legal Medicine to identify bodies or fragments of bodies and to perform medical-legal autopsies within a short period of time, with the creation of a medical-legal team of disaster intervention. Finally, taking into account the recommendation of the Council of Europe No 99 3 on the harmonisation of the rules on medical and legal autopsy, this proposal reinforces the obligation to perform autopsy in a situation of death in police custody or associated with police or military intervention, or in cases where torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment is suspected. Mrs. Members, we believe to be before a bill that, considering the solutions it incorporates, will certainly contribute to the continuous improvement of the quality of the services provided by the National Institute of Legal Medicine, as well as will allow to alleviate the suffering of families, removing the increased penosity of waiting in the realization of autopsies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u59	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Under-Secretary of State and Justice: Is there a problem with the realization of medical and legal expertise in Portugal? The government says yes, it says that the problem is expectations and waiting time and uses this argument to adopt solutions which, in our view, are unacceptable. The argument of expectations is, in our view, false. Between 2017 and 2018, they took place in Portugal, at the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, about 151,000 forensic experts and are pending only 2700, less than 2 %. The reality is different! The reality is that the career of legal medicine has been undervalued, not giving the current 63 doctors of legal medicine working conditions that encourage them to keep in the public service, with prospects for the renewal of the very small picture, without regular competitions or career progressions. That has been the case, and that is on the basis of many of the issues we are discussing today. This is exactly what was the origin of the recent strike of legal medicine specialists, with an accession of almost 100 %, and it is in this context that most legal medicine doctors already accumulate these functions with those of service provider, through triennial competitions. The Government's argument on the need for additional production only appears today because the Court of Auditors, in audit of the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensics, raised issues relating to dual recruitment. Therefore, it is not of additional production that it is, purely and simply, the regularization of the situation that is created with double hiring. On the other hand, and above all, the pretext of this supposed additional need for production, the Government's proposal enshrines solutions that, in practice, open the door to forms of privatization in the field of legal medicine. See what Article 5 states. this government proposal: the possibility of performing medical-legal expertise by doctors or private entities, by appointment of judicial entities, bypassing, in fact, the Institute of Legal Medicine. The question is: what guarantees can we have, what guarantees does the country have, what guarantees do people have that there will be exemption and that there will be no conflict of interest? Why does the Institute of Legal Medicine go around? There is no reason for this, and it is therefore a solution that we consider to be wrong. See Article 13. this proposal: examinations to victims of sexual abuse in hospitals and private entities, i.e. private sector expertise for criminal investigation purposes. You've never seen this! What about forensic genetic tests? What about forensic toxicology tests? Will they also be held in private institutions? Who guarantees the custody chain of proof? Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, this initiative, from our point of view...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u61	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this initiative, from our point of view, is based on assumptions without consistency to adopt wrong solutions and therefore we do not follow it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u63	Mr António Gameiro of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in these three minutes, I would like to emphasise five fundamental aspects of this bill. First of all, I note that the reformist momentum of the Government remains, bringing to this House an extremely important and sensitive issue for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u65	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u66	In fact, Portuguese people often despair in times of mourning and sorrow...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u68	...by your loved ones. This situation has long since been changed and, in good time, the government has taken the initiative to resume its course. It would also point out that, with this proposal for a law, attempting to resolve constraints and expedite access to clinical information necessary for expert assessments, with the aim of making human and material resources profitable, it is now expressly foreseen that the request for such data, by the experts of the Institute, should be made electronically, agitating and, at the same time, safeguarding the fulfilment of the obligations relating to medical secrecy and the secret of justice. On the other hand, this bill also seeks to avoid delays resulting from the fact that autopsies are only carried out on working days. This initiative provides for the realization of autopsies at weekends and holidays, which will allow procedures to be accelerated, especially the delivery of the bodies to the families of the victims, without the increased penosity of the wait by the beginning of the week. This will be possible through the creation of a single scale, which is not confused with the prevention regime for urgent acts, being guaranteed, in the proposal, the payment of the increase in remuneration due to permanent availability, which is thus extended to the realization of medical and legal autopsies on non-working days. Another proposed change is in the area of human resources, which deserves to be emphasized, because it is the fact that it stabilizes the framework of the Institute's doctors, ending with fixed-term employment contracts and passing them on to indefinite time, thus stabilising their provider framework. It is also of great relevance to the challenges of the Institute and this activity the creation of a medical and legal disaster intervention team, the strengthening of the preparation of services for the expert response in situations of exception and, taking into account the recommendation of the Council of Europe, the strengthening of the obligation to perform autopsy in situations of death in police custody or associated with a police or military intervention. thus, in cases of suspected torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, we also have a prepared response. The PS Parliamentary Group expresses its support for this Government initiative, but of course it is available to work with all parliamentary groups, to find a better wording that can mock and perfect the foundations of this initiative, which will certainly deserve everyone's agreement, because it is a determining issue for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u69	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government, with this bill, recognizes that there is a problem at the National Institute of Legal Medicine and in the medical and legal expertise in Portugal. It's a significant advance. at the end of four years, it seems that everything was all right and the government finally began to identify problems. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is identifying the problem, perhaps in an impulse, I would say, of the last hour, but you think it is not his fault. Like what happens in other areas of government, for the government, the fault for the malfunction of services is always, but always, of others: it is the doctor's fault, it is the nurse's fault, it is even the user's fault, but it is never even the government's fault. As far as expertise is concerned, it seems that the government is not to blame either. According to the diploma, the fault is, you see, excessive laziness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government brings a set of solutions, but none is appropriate to solve the underlying problem, which is structural. To resolve this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to train, we need to hire, we need to invest, we need to equip.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u71	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u72	This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the government has not done and, of course, it does not want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u73	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u74	The government does not move forward with more investment, does not move forward with the hiring of more doctors, does not advance with the hiring of more nurses, does not advance with the opening of new vacancies, does not provide more training, does not invest in infrastructures, improves physical spaces and adequate material for the realization of medical-legal expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u75	That's the one! You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u76	The Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to move forward with bold measures that raise more doubts than certain ones, which have already caused a great challenge and even an unprecedented strike in the sector, the first of all in legal medicine. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these measures raise doubts, now of legality, or of success, or of technical, hour of operation, hour of articulation, doubts, these, which require study, reflection and intensive debate. It takes time, which is what Parliament may no longer have. It will be difficult for Parliament to debate this matter in a week's time in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u78	...and manage to solve this problem until the 19th day, and the government alone can complain, because it has arrived again, late and bad hours. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, in an attempt to build a better initiative, still equalizes the application for discharge without a vote of this diploma. He believes that, eventually, it will be a minor evil, a last attempt to avoid a reprobation, which only the government has to do, because he cannot fail to make a positive contribution. Let it be clear in this House: this is certainly not a responsible way to address such an important matter as the functioning of an essential activity for the judicial system, which is the medical-legal activity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u79	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u80	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: This government diploma has as its assumption, and it is very clear the foundation of the government, such matters as laziness, i.e. delays in the medical-legal expertise, laziness in the realization of its own expertise, the difficulties that this causes the citizens and, in particular, families, which, in this way, are forced, even more in a painful situation, to wait. Well, at the end of this time, really, the question is obvious: why does this slowness exist? Why does this problem exist?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u81	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u82	The answer can only be one and it is very simple and very obvious, regardless of the criticisms that we can hear from the benches on this side or from the benches on this side: there is morosity because there was no investment, because there are not enough doctors, because the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences has not been equipped with the human resources and the requirements necessary to achieve its activity with competence, in the interest of the citizens and in the interest, even of the professionals themselves, who have complained a lot and, even, have not only protested but also carried out protest actions, as strikes. That is the point of the situation. If there is a failure and if there is an investment failure, it has one sole responsibility, Madam Secretary of State, let me tell you, that it is the Government of which you are part. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u83	What does the government propose to do with this? Some technical and agile solutions that do not seem to deserve great criticism, but also proposes a solution that is the use of private people in carrying out these same medical and legal expertise. On this point, I say the following: if, in experts who are civilians, in experts who have to do with insurance or insurance companies, this may not make us very confused, in forensic medical and legal expertise, linked, in particular, to the practice of crimes, this causes us some confusion and raises us many doubts. In such cases there must indeed be a public requirement and a guarantee from the State. It should also be stressed that our National Institute of Legal Medicine is seen as a recognized entity, a quality entity, an exemplary entity, whether nationally or internationally. And it seems that this entity is a little delayed with this solution, rather than being equipped and equipped with the means necessary to do its work and what it must do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u84	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u85	I just wanted to raise one question. The appointment of such experts by judges, of course, may, in certain circumstances, raise doubts even in the designation and in the guarantee of independence itself. Therefore, the Secretary of State, understanding the nature of the problem, we have many doubts about this solution and how it is presented. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u86	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This House today faces a problem of difficult resolution: we are discussing, at least one week after the end of parliamentary work, proposals for legislation of great complexity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u88	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u89	... several of them, a few days from the end of the legislature, which puts us in the face of great difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u90	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u91	It is, in fact, that when I see this diploma, reading the opinions that have already been sent to us by several entities that actually perceive this matter, we find that this matter would lack a great reflection, because it has several mysteries to solve and various complexities. The first mystery has to do with morosity. We are told that one of the reasons for the bill is laziness, waiting, but then elements that deny this expectation are given to us. In other words, when we are told that in two years, more than 150 000 experts were carried out and there was only one, 8% — there was only a very small number of doctors at the end of 2018, 2000 and few expectations — after all, it is found that, if there are delays, they are not imputable to the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, despite having a very small number of doctors at the service — there are 63, according to the data provided to us — there are 15 already a fairly advanced age in working terms and, therefore, already close to their reform, having only 14 in training to replace them. That is, there is, in fact, a problem here, that has to do with the investment in medical professionals to the Institute of Legal Medicine, and it would be - if there is a problem of morbidity, it is because there will be few professionals and the first way to fight was to find a way of contracting. But the way forward, which the Government is proposing, is not exactly that. It proposes very objective approaches to its convenience, from the outset, the possibility of judicial authorities appointing experts to carry out expertise, outside the Institute of Legal Medicine, which in fact poses complex problems, from the outset, with regard to their professional capacity to do so. In other words, we are not saying that there are obviously no completely qualified doctors in this country to do so, but without any control of this, by the Institute of Legal Medicine, it may appear problematic, in addition to there is a problem of any incompatibilities that may arise. This is not a problem of lack of technical competence, there are certain guarantees that there is no situation of impediment or incompatibility which can prevent that doctor in particular and which questions his professional independence in the decision he has to make about that expertise. There must obviously be strict control, that is, we cannot leave this to the criterion of a judicial authority, however well-intentioned it may be. There must indeed be a very serious reflection on this diploma, which, I stress, we are in very difficult conditions to do. We can obviously try that's our duty...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u92	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u93	...but it will be very difficult to have a sufficiently in-depth reflection on this matter in the few days that we remain in this legislature. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u94	In order to close this point, she has again the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u95	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the speeches of the various parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I note that we are indeed in the presence of a diploma that creates a lot of apprehension and many doubts to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. However, until I know this diploma in depth, I believe that, in a more careful analysis, they will come to another conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u96	We were distracted. We were distracted. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u97	As regards what has recently been said and the interpretation which has been made, in particular by the social communication, concerning the risk of privatization of the National Institute of Legal Medicine, which has essentially to do with the solution set out in Article 5. , paragraph 2, of this diploma, which here is simply the same solution as has already been found in Article 152. the Code of Criminal Procedure. We adopted this possibility following a hearing by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. It consists of Article 152. the Code of Criminal Procedure: ‘The expertise is carried out in the appropriate establishment, laboratory or official service or, where this is not possible or appropriate, by appointed expert from among persons listed by experts existing in each region, or, in their lack or impossibility of reply in good time, by person of honour and recognized competence in the matter. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, in the face of those most problematic experiences, in which rights, freedoms and guarantees are involved and where we may be in a criminal process, judicial authorities can, of course, already do so under the condition that the National Institute of Legal Medicine does not have the capacity to respond. This is what we have extended to other areas, because we are also concerned about the speed of response by the courts in civil areas, particularly with regard to road accidents. I wanted to tell this House something else. The provisions of Article 152. it only occurs, in practice, in situations where the country does not have medical-legal offices. These are two situations, and this government is solving them. We have already made a protocol with the City Hall of Santarém and with the District Hospital of Santarém, the work is under way to install a medical-legal office in Santarém, and we lack another office in Cascais, which is also being prepared. Therefore, whenever we have medical-legal offices—and we do not have only these two points in the country—the expertise will be carried out by the National Institute of Legal Medicine. Obviously, the National Institute of Legal Medicine is a department of the Ministry of Justice of the Portuguese State...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u98	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u99	...and he's one of the most accredited, not only nationally but also internationally. If you have any doubts, there is the answer you gave in fateful moments that have marked our collective life. Another thing I would like to say is that when we arrived at the government — and I don't like to go looking for the past — the Institute of Legal Medicine had 43 doctors, 15 of whom had completed medical boarding and were awaiting entry into the National Institute of Legal Medicine for more than three years, in a totally different situation than at the level of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u100	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u101	We have integrated these 15 young people, we have integrated all those who have finished medical boarding school and we will integrate, still this year, 9 more, which means that we have attached the framework of the National Institute of Legal Medicine, which had 43 professionals, with 63 doctors and will be, until the end of the year, 72. We're creating a department...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u102	Mr. Secretary of State, I will take your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u103	Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u104	Mr. Secretary of State, let's see if we understand ourselves: the times are to be fulfilled and, when the President makes a warning, the minimum one can be asked is that people realize that they have heard the notice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u105	The general debate on the proposal for a Law No 200 / XIII / 4 is concluded. a. We moved on to the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 205 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the legal regime of access to law and courts and drafts of Law No 1232 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Determines the modification of the legal system of legal costs in order to ensure greater access to courts by workers, precarious workers and the generality of citizens( 14 ). the amendment to the Rules of Procedure ) and 1233 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access to law and courts. To submit the bill, she has again the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u106	Mr. President, I apologize for the excitement of the moment. It's not my bell. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u107	It wasn't a case for that either! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand each other. The Secretary of State is here to present a bill, so the House will do its best to hear how it should be heard. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this bill, the Government presents to the Assembly of the Republic the new legal regime of access to law and courts, seeking to overcome the weaknesses and inconsistencies diagnosed in the current system, which, as we know, make effective access to courts and justice by economically disadvantaged citizens difficult. This proposal resulted in a work carried out jointly with the Ministry of Labour, the Institute of Social Security, the Order of Lawyers, the Order of Applicants and the Enforcement Agents and the Order of Notaries. In our view, the most emblematic aspect of this bill, in the dimension of strengthening the legal protection of citizens, is the redefinition of the concept of economic insufficiency, whether it comes to natural persons, whether it relates to legal persons. As regards natural persons, the concept of ‘economic failure’ is transversally harmonized, with reference to the new regime provided for in Decree-Law No 120 / 2018 — the known condition of resources — establishing a model of protection based on the escalation of benefits granted. As regards legal persons, legal protection is extended to those who have profit and are in difficulty, thus correcting rules already declared unconstitutional, with general mandatory force. This scheme implies an extension of the legal protection beneficiaries base. The entire procedure for the application for legal protection will be based on the completion and submission of an electronic form, with the articulation of the various public entities involved, which will bring speed and effectiveness to the procedure, overcoming some of the difficulties felt today. It is clear that the legal support regime applies in all state courts, whatever the form of the process, in institutionalized necessary arbitration, in peace judges, in alternative dispute resolution structures and in identified arbitration centres, as well as in the processes of counter-ordination, in the processes of competence of the Public Prosecutor and in the processes that run in conservatories, notaries and other entities of the Public Administration. The legal consultation mechanism is used to carry out a prior assessment of applications for the purpose of judicial action, which can be challenged through a simple and rapid mechanism, and also stimulates the use of alternative means of resolving disputes of a more informal nature. Appropriate training is now being provided for all professionals enrolled in the system and, at the same time, an observatory of the system of access to law and courts is being set up to ensure quality control and continuous supervision of the system. The procedures for judicial support, which are now covered by a higher level, are simplified by extending the exemption from procedural fees, emoluments and other charges with the procedure or procedure, including the designation of implementing agent, which is thus available to the beneficiary citizens, on an equal footing with the others — the appointment and payment of compensation for employer or informal defender and the payment of charges with the necessary institutionalised arbitration. I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. With these amendments, this bill responds to what we believe is the desire to bring justice closer to the citizens in truly substantial terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u110	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza once again has the floor, which is on duty today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposed law under discussion arises with a view that the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block shares, which is the need to review and expand the regime of access to the right. The fundamental right to access to justice is realized only if the economic conditions of each and every one are not a barrier, and therefore it is urgent to ensure that all have objective conditions for seeing a specific problem of their lives enjoyed by the courts or for obtaining legal advice. That said, it is clear that some of the points in the Government's proposal need to be clearly improved in the specialty, on the grounds that they are committed to their merits. I am referring, from the very outset, to the existence of a previous assessment of the need for a lawyer to be, and I quote, « manifest simplicity ». This is an idea, in our view, perverse and that deals with the fundamental right of access to justice. Neither is this right exclusive of complex causes nor is there any objective criterion to say what is simple and what is not simple. A second point which should be amended in the field of expertise is the extension of the scope of this bill to the participation of an interpreter at the moment of pre-contention. The Advocates' Order made this appeal in the opinion it sent to the Assembly of the Republic and it seems fair to us that this step should be taken. We remember that, a few days ago, we discussed in this House the Ombudsman's report. The law of access to the right also covers an interpreter is obviously relevant in the centres of temporary detention and in other instances where the fragility of Portuguese language knowledge is played. Thirdly, the bill is empty in respect of remuneration and reimbursement of lawyers' expenses, referring to its rules at a later stage. Such a problem is not warned, and it pushes with the belly a problem that has to have a clear and fair solution to the law. Finally, I stress that, in our view, this bill is the most serious problem, and we say that it is the most serious one, because, if it is not corrected, it can fully frustrate the end of this proposal or even make access to justice even more difficult. To remove the definition of the situation of economic insufficiency of the law and to refer it to the future definition in regulatory decree is a leap in the dark. We agree that the law that is in force needs a profound change, we agree with the aim of taking the regime of access to the right to more people, but we need clear criteria to ensure that this law will effectively increase the number of beneficiaries, and this is only possible by placing clear criteria in it. To wait for a regulatory decree which is not known and which, to the limit, can bring tighter criteria is something that will necessarily have to be changed in the field of expertise. It is to ensure this fundamental constitutional right that the Left Block Parliamentary Group brings today a bill that aims to act in the main blocking factor of access to law, which is the legal costs. Our bill affects a set of situations that are objectively deserving of exemption from legal costs. Labour relations, where they naturally include thousands of false green receipts, are one of the fields where this...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u112	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u113	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, labor relations are one of the fields where this obstacle of access to justice becomes felt in a particularly intense way. I shall end with this statement, Mr President: that workers and workers, as well as the precarious and precarious ones, are the weak link of these relations, it is particularly perverse that there is also this impossibility of resorting to justice to see their rights guaranteed for economic reasons. With the bill submitted by the Left Block, an exemption from legal costs for these cases is guaranteed, and that is how this country's "Cristinas" can claim their rights in court, without having to measure the economic impact of their decision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u114	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr António Filipe once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: The legislative initiatives we are now discussing concern a serious social problem in our country, which has to do with access to law and justice. If the Constitution effectively guarantees in Article 20. , the right to effective judicial protection, what we verify is that we are far from guaranteeing this right and its effectiveness; if, in the field of health, we have the National Health Service, despite the difficulties ; if we have a public school to guarantee the right to education; when it comes to access to justice the State did not create the necessary structures so that the population, particularly the population with no financial resources, can effectively have access to law and courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u117	And that is why this is a fundamental issue we are discussing here. But there is a basic problem in the Government's bill. It has meritorious purposes, it has even good ideas, especially when it acknowledges that there is a part of the population that, not being the poorest, still has no financial conditions to cost a judicial dispute, to appeal to the courts, to pay the inherent fees, and advances with the idea that steps should be created, that can be scaled up...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u119	... on the basis of incomes the degree of financial support by the State for access to law, if that is a good idea, we do not know whether the final result of the adoption of this bill is good or bad. That is, when we move forward with the idea of steps, but then it is said that the steps will be defined by regulatory decree, we can ask: "Well, with the approval of this bill, support for access to justice would be extended or, on the contrary, would it be restricted? Oh, my God! We don't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u121	That is what actually puts us in the face of a embarrassing situation, that is, we may be here to approve a bill that then translates into something very positive or we may be approving a bill for which people say to us: "Well, this has not improved at all and it is the fault of the gentlemen who have approved a bill that has not actually improved at all". That's a risk we can't run. Therefore, in the debate that we should have in committee on this matter must be absolutely clear, it must be clear, very clear, that a new law on access to law will allow access to justice and courts for more people, with the necessary support of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u123	It is in this sense that the CFP also presents a bill, giving its contribution to an area in which, for a long time, it has been making a reflection on the question of access to law and to courts, so that no one — because this is a constitutional determination that we must comply — should be excluded from access to justice due to insufficient economic means. There is still a long way to go, and it is on this path that we propose to move forward, but to move forward with concrete measures and not with vague intentions, because, as it is usually said, « of intentions is hell full». in this matter, there is much to be done here on earth so that people will not stop resorting to justice because of insufficient economic means, as is the case today, unfortunately for many citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u124	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u125	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government today brings to the discussion the diploma of the new regime of access to law and to the courts, a diploma that, clearly, the Secretary of State, has never been a priority for this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u127	Otherwise, we see: the Minister of Justice created a working group in 2016 three years ago to evaluate the system of access to law and courts. In 2017, the Minister of Justice promised to integrate this solution into the State Budget for 2018. Now comes this government, in a hurry and running, to present here in the Assembly of the Republic, to discuss and vote on a diploma of this kind, an essential diploma so that citizens can access to justice. Clearly, the Secretary of State, this is not a priority for this government. We speak of an indispensable law, as I said, for justice. A first-hand law designed to prevent the lack of economic resources from being an impediment to any citizen's access and exercise of his rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u129	This is the main objective of the law, and it is not clear from the outset that the government will be in a position to enhance the extension of beneficiaries when it removes the definition of the situation of economic insufficiency of the law and sends it to a regulatory decree. What is planned, Madam Secretary of State, is only good intentions, of course, in the presentation of reasons for this diploma, because it is in fact to define and to define the question of economic insufficiency, which is the same as nothing, which is the same as we are talking about today a blank check.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u131	So, no, Madam Secretary of State! Without the definition of this point of course, of course, it will not have the support of the PSD Parliamentary Group. In addition, the Government takes refuge in economic studies that support the establishment of a concept, studies, those that nobody knows and can lead to the approval of something indefinable. Mr. Secretary of State, in addition to that, this bill is also a disregard by lawyers, especially by those who work with the law access system today, since it is also provided for a dispensation of annual updating of the remuneration of lawyers who are registered in this system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u132	Well said! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u133	... now passing the update to be done when the government so understands. as planned, this regime diminishes Portuguese lawyers. Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This is a truly central issue in today's debate on justice, and it is certainly not with this law that the Government brings today to the debate, in a hurry and running, that the system of access to law and legal support is being improved, so that better service can be provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u134	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, as this bill is, the Government will not have the support of the Social Democratic Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u136	You have to change!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u137	... but we are, of course, available to change a few points and to hold a wider debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u138	You now have the floor for the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u139	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: If it is incomprehensible and unreasonable that the Minister of Justice has provided this Parliament with the discussion and vote of amendments to the inventory process at this time, it is completely inexplicable, illogical and until little edifying, the Secretary of State, that the Government faces this Parliament, 15 days after the end of the legislature, with such a structural and as important law as the law on access to law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u141	Mrs Andreia Neto has already given her the chronology, and I did not want to repeat it, because she did it very well, but, Madam Secretary of State, she reminded her that the CDS, in 2017, in 2018 and 2019, repeatedly and victoriously asked about the law of access to law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u143	... and, moreover, on the Rules of Procedure. And the answer, Mrs. Secretary of State, was always the same: «We are working... We are working... We're seeing... let's introduce... ». It's always been like this. They worked so much, so much, that they worked late and worked badly, Mrs. Secretary of State. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In addition, in March 2019, at one of the last sittings of the Minister of Justice, I told her that she expected the Minister not to deal with this matter in Parliament at the end of the legislature, because the CDS refused to legislate « horse mackerel», and I apologize for the expression, but that is the same, and I reiterate it here and now. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, do not count on us to make a speedy law, which does not serve anyone and has only one purpose, that of the Minister of Justice to be able to wash her hands as Pilates and say: « I have tried, but Parliament has not given me an answer». Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to take this message to the Minister of Justice because she does not have the CDS for this farce.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u145	But more and worse, Mrs Secretary of State: at the end of four years it does not only present a structural law too late, as I have already told you, as it is, in fact, bad and lame. It is lame by what I have already said, that is, because it does not bring the Rules of Procedure together, and I would not tell you that one without the other is not worth it, but the truth is that one law without the other has a very small effect. It is a bad law, because, as we all know, a law that is designed to prevent the lack of economic resources from preventing citizens from accessing justice — that is what this law does, basically, is the objective of this law — the Government withdraws from the law the definition of economic insufficiency, leaving us all to the darkness about what it means to be economic insufficiency and what it is necessary to do in this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u146	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u147	What is the Minister doing? It calls for us to adopt a law on economic insufficiency for citizens to enter into justice, without saying anything at all about what this concept of economic insufficiency is, and it matters a great deal to that end. So I end up as I began, Mrs Secretary of State, telling you not to count with us for this farce and much less expect the CDS to present a blank check to the government, because the CDS does not do it to anyone, much less to this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u148	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I note that the Portuguese do not have PSD and CDS to improve access to law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u151	It is important to note this in order to start this debate. With regard to access to law and justice, I would like to begin my intervention by recalling Article 20. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic: « Everyone is guaranteed access to law and courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, and justice cannot be denied due to lack of economic means. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is thus a responsibility of the State to ensure the effective fulfilment of this constitutional precept.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u152	But with rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u153	We all have the perception that there are weaknesses and inadequacies in the current access system and that, in practice, there is an effective difficulty in access to the right for many deprived citizens, as well as for collective people unable to bear the costs of justice. The Government in its Programme has undertaken to improve the quality of access to law and justice. This bill is nothing more than fulfilling this programmatic commitment. Let me highlight some of the points of the bill that make the difference in this area. First of all, record cooperation between the State and the professional and forensic public associations in the qualification of professionals, because it is also important to have quality in access to law. Nor can I mention the scope of extending support for access to law beyond the courts, which is clearly an innovation. Today, access to the right extends to institutionalized necessary arbitration, to peace judges, to alternative dispute resolution structures, to counter-ordination processes, as well as to processes that run in conservatories and notaries, as well as to the executive processes, including the acts of the competence of the enforcers, is clearly an advance. Legal support, also under this proposal, will finally reach companies with economic difficulties. And as for natural people, there will be an extension of its scope of incidence, due to the upward review of the maximum income limits to be considered so that citizens can benefit from this support. For this reason, as has already been said, it is expected that different steps will be created. These options will ensure a significant extension of the beneficiary base. All of these options are accompanied by a very important issue, which is that of simplifying the modalities of legal support, which will be extended to three, removing entropies from the system, making it more effective, without, on the contrary, increasing the scope of such support. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are aware that other parties have proposals, that other parties wanted to have proposals but did not come in time, presented proposals that have not been scheduled for plenary, but this does not prevent the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group from reaffirming its total and complete availability for, in the field of specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u154	For the week!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u155	...and in good time, because we have 15 days, we have 15 days... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is a challenge to work, because there are opportunities that cannot be lost. Do you want to have a law that doesn't work, or do you want to improve this law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u156	This one, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u157	The challenge is launched, they respond, they come to improve judicial support and do not take refuge in time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u158	You were four years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u159	The man, when he wants to, does; when he doesn't want to, raises problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u160	In order to close this debate, she has again the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course for everyone, for the Government and for the Members. Members, that a diploma of these is of fundamental, crucial importance, in the access of our citizens and our citizens to law, justice and, in particular, to the courts. As you know, on the basis of the bill that today the Government has presented, has been the creation of a working group, with several professionals of the most well-known and with evidence of knowledge in these areas. Obviously, this is a matter of high complexity, we had to hold a series of hearings and, despite the hard, dedicated and competent work that the Ministry of Justice has undertaken in drafting this bill, it was not possible for us to present it at the moment before this House. What the Ministry of Justice asks, within the possibilities of this House, is that there will be opportunity and time for, of course, conscientiously, competently and seriously, to be able to analyze...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u162	But there isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u163	But it is up to us to request; VV. For example, it is up to you to make the decision. We have done the work and, between keeping the document in the drawer or bringing it here, as we are still in the legislative session, we have decided to present it. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u164	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that love of work improves the work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have no doubt of your extreme dedication to the public interest and that, if they eventually recognize the merit of this proposal, they will certainly make an increased effort to provide our citizens with this very important instrument of access to law. As far as the points that differ from the proposal here are concerned, they are likely to be improved, of course, in accordance with a serious and well-informed debate on the part of all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Then, in the face of concrete solutions, if there are any improvements, the government is willing to accept them. Finally, on the issue of economic insufficiency, I would just like to report that the economic insufficiency is legal, has the criterion set out in the law. Indeed, the table is not here, but we know what the criterion of economic insufficiency is. I therefore appeal to this House, within your availability, to make, if possible, a forcing in order to provide the Country with such an important regulatory instrument. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u165	Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate of the Bill No 205 / XIII / 4 is closed. a. We now move on to the general discussion of the Bill No 199 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures implementation and ensures compliance in the domestic legal order with the obligations arising from Regulation ( EU ) No 536 / 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law aimed at ensuring compliance with the obligations arising from Regulation No 536 / 2014 of the European Union on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use is presented to the vote. This proposal for a law submitted by the Government aims to adapt the national system of clinical trials for medicinal products for human use to this Community Regulation, as it appears strictly necessary, considering that the Regulation is already mandatory and directly applicable in all Member States. This Regulation, notes, reinforces the general principle that the clinical trial can only be carried out if the rights, safety, dignity and well-being of the subjects of the test are protected and prevail over all other interests and if the production of reliable and robust data ends. Thus, within the limits of the Regulation, this bill defines matters that reinforce the protection of citizens participating in trials, informed consent, liability and compensation for any damage. The penalties applicable in Portugal shall also be specified in the event of an infringement of the provisions of the Regulation. The institutions competent at national level for the purposes of implementing the Regulation are also determined: Infarmed as an entity responsible for the technical-scientific evaluation and focal point of the European Union and the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research, provided for in the law of clinical research, as an entity responsible for ethical evaluation. We follow the concern that the European Union has had to harmonise the rules on clinical trials within its scope in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, with regard to the conduct of a clinical trial in several Member States and the Union-wide recognition of data produced in the clinical trial. As a result of this concern, the European Union has adopted this European Regulation which expedites the evaluation of clinical trials by all Member States, reduces bureaucracy and improves transparency in the recruitment of participants and in the results of such clinical trials, harmonizing the terms and conditions of their implementation at European level. The Single European Information System, introduced by the Regulation through a single European portal for testing submission and access to a test information system, promotes the production of reliable data, the conduct of tests, meeting high standards for the protection of citizens' rights, safety and well-being. Finally, it should be pointed out that this law will not produce immediate effects, since, despite the Regulation which entered into force on 16 June 2014, its provisions shall apply only six months after the publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, of the Commission's notice certifying the functionality of the European Union portal and database, notice, that it has not yet been published. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u167	We then move on to the stage of discussion. First of all, and on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u168	Mr President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, with this bill, the Government intends to ensure the implementation in national legislation of the European Union Regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. I must begin by lamenting this pattern in the government's relationship with Parliament. At the end of the Legislature, the Government sends a proposal for an eminently technical law, with opinions of two years ago affecting not on this text, but on the preliminary draft of this bill. Even these opinions do not include the National Data Protection Commission, which we are surprised at since this matter deals directly with the personal data of volunteers in clinical trials. This relief — which he could not help with in relation to the process — is of course to welcome the commitment to research and the encouragement to carry out clinical trials in Portugal. It is common practice, as I said, in several other European countries, that the gains are evident in the context of the advancement of science and potential gains in health, and it is also not self-scrupulous about the results and economic impacts of this activity. For various reasons, including the lack of political will on the part of the responsible authorities, Portugal has been losing relevance and market in this area, one of the least attractive countries in Europe today. The reasons are several, there are many difficulties in execution, excessive bureaucracy, lack of encouragement to health services to cooperate in these activities. It is known that there are several multinationals who deviate, from our country, their clinical research and their trials to other countries that create better conditions for their realization. It is therefore important to correct this situation and encourage regular research in our country. For a long time, the CDS has, in fact, already been presenting an initiative in this sense, approved by all the benches, with the exception of the Socialist Party, which at the time voted against. And it was with the PSD Government / CDS that Law No. 21 / 2014 was published that approved the law of clinical investigation. With regard to this bill, it is important to understand why many of the contributions made by government entities have not been received. I give some examples: why no explicit mention is made — and I quote — about aspects such as the circuit of the experimental medicine, the testing centres, the processes and deadlines for review and approval of financial contracts, as suggested by Health Cluster Portugal? Why was the suggestion of the Pharmaceutical Order not accepted to insert the definition of "low- or minimal-intervention clinical trial", which they say is absolutely necessary? Or, according to the Apifarma, and we have already mentioned here, why is it not clear why the National Data Protection Commission has not been heard? Having the preliminary draft, as I said two years, it asks why, at the very end of the legislature, the Government sends the bill to Parliament, when it is already known that there will be no time to do what would be right and necessary, i.e. to give the parliamentary groups the opportunity to present amendments so that the final text can be improved. In conclusion, both the process and the final text deserve our reservations, but given the importance of the topic, the CDS will make this proposal possible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u169	Before giving the floor to the Left Block, he asked the parliamentary groups to sign up, because at the moment there are no inscriptions. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u170	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Clinical trials are, of course, very important for research, for therapeutic innovation, for the discovery and introduction of new medicines, to ensure the effectiveness and safety of those who come to use them in the future. However, they must be compatible with the rights of the subjects participating in these clinical trials, ensuring free participation, informed consent, safety and dignity and well-being of them. Only in this way will it be ensured, in fact, that clinical trials obey a greater interest and that the investigation is subordinate to a greater interest, which is the interest of health and health protection and not the opposite. That is why when the Regulation was discussed in the European Parliament, the Left Block was very much struggling for its final drafting to ensure informed consent, the existence of binding opinions on ethics committees, the autonomy of the Member States to produce their own rules, to have their own institutions and to be able to refuse certain tests in their own country. The proposal for a law which the Government is bringing about in general seems to obey these principles which the Block of the Left has put into discussion in the European Parliament and which are, for us here, also in Portugal, in the discussion of this bill, fundamental. However, there are some doubts and some aspects which, we believe, deserve clarification, not only here, in general, but in the specialty, if they arise. For example, Article 11. it speaks of « informed consent by simplified means». This already exists in the Regulation, it is true, but perhaps it should be developed and operationalized in the bill, which is clarification by simplified means, to limit the latitude of interpretation and to always enforce the right of subjects participating in clinical trials. At the end of Article 13. the, is referred to as « additional compensation to be established in the financial contract ». The question is to know what they are because, in principle, there is no remuneration for the participants. These ‘additional compensations’ may be this or anything else and it would also be interesting to operationalize what these financial compensations can be, again so that there is no great interpretation latitude and there is no openness to the possibility of remuneration for participation in clinical trials. In Article 15. the, we speak of « incentive mechanisms associated with the conclusion of financial contracts », but we do not understand whether these mechanisms are those established in the contractualization between the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and hospitals or whether they are mechanisms to be established between promoters and institutions where clinical trials are made. Article 19. where language documents are spoken, it seems to us that it should be clear that fundamental documents, such as the document of informed consent, should be written in the language or language understood by the participant. Therefore, it must not necessarily be the Portuguese language, it must not be the English language secondary, but it must be an understandable language by the participant, because we are obviously talking about the document that has to do with the informed consent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u171	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u172	Mr. President, I'll be done. There may be participants who are not Portuguese, or who are not fluent in Portuguese or English, and of course the informed consent must be understandable to such persons. It seemed important to us that there was also an explicit mention of a language understood by the participant in the clinical trial. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u173	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isaura Pedro of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Currently, clinical trials of medicinal products for human use are regulated in Portugal by Law No. 21 / 2014 of 16 April, a diploma already changed twice, the first one still in 2015 and the second one already in 2018. Law No 21 / 2014 transposed into Portuguese law Directive 2001 / 20 of the European Community on the approximation of the provisions of the Member States, respecting the application of good clinical practices in the conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. This law, which created a new reference framework for clinical research with human beings in Portugal, strengthened ethical requirements and clarified the responsibilities of interveners in clinical trials processes, recognizing their specificities. What we are discussing today is a proposal for a law of the Government, which aims to ensure the implementation and enforcement of obligations under Regulation ( EU ) No 536 / 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use in the domestic legal order. The purpose of this Regulation was to create a framework favourable to clinical trials, with respect to the safety, dignity and well-being of the test subject, raising the protection of their rights and ensuring the production of reliable results. Despite this regulation being of direct and mandatory application in Portuguese law, the Government considered it necessary to ensure its implementation in the domestic legal order determining which competent entities, which are INFARMED and the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research, also delimiting and clarifying their respective competences. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group generally agrees with all initiatives and measures aimed at the application of good clinical practices in the conduct and conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. However, a question has to be raised about the government diploma under discussion today has to do with the continuity of the treatment availability in case of completion of the clinical trial. Article 14. o Law No 199 / XIII / 4. it provides that after completion of the test the treatments shall continue to be made available free of charge by the promoter or subject to the test until the effective marketing of the medicinal product in Portugal. When the completion of the test does not give rise to marketing, either by withdrawal of the promoter or by decision of non-participation of the State in the price of the medicinal product concerned, among other possibilities, it is necessary to clarify the responsibility of the test promoter in the continuation of the treatment, of course only in cases where the investigator considers it indispensable for the test subject. These issues, of course, bearing in mind the unquestionable complexity, deserve careful consideration of the proposed law in the presence and the PSD is, of course, available to offer its contribution to Parliament's approval of a good law on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Lima. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Secretary of State for Health, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs: The draft law submitted by the Government aims to ensure the implementation and enforcement of obligations under the European Union Regulation relating to clinical trials of medicinal products for human use in the internal legal order. It is important here, as the other banks have already done, to refer to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April, which is in force on the subject currently under discussion and which is designated by the law of clinical investigation, which, as we have discussed today, resulted from the transposition of a directive, whose aim was to approximate the legal arrangements of the Member States with regard to the application of good clinical practices in the conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. In April 2014, Regulation ( EU ) No 536 / 2014 of Parliament and of the Council on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, designed to create a favourable framework for clinical trials in accordance with the high standards of protection of the rights, security, dignity and well-being of the subject of the clinical trial, as well as the production of reliable and robust data from the Member States of the European Union. This Regulation, although it is mandatory and directly applicable in all Member States, does not have immediate effects and, as the directive has been repealed, therefore, it is necessary to ensure its implementation in the domestic legal order, giving continuity and effectiveness to the measures already adopted or to adopt, in particular at the national level, the competent authorities, and to delimit and clarify their competences, such as the additional requirements for the protection of subjects of clinical trials and their informed consent, safeguarding the subject and the respective sanction framework applicable to infringements. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that this law is a good law and that it applies very well in national reality. In the light of the framework and until the beginning of the production of effects of the content of this Regulation, clinical trials of medicinal products for human use are no longer covered by the law of clinical investigation and must comply with the provisions of this Regulation and this law. Thus, the law of clinical investigation is only applicable to other clinical studies. Therefore, the Government, through this proposed law, intends to adopt national legislation necessary for the implementation of the regulation, adopting the solutions that the Portuguese State considers most appropriate for the protection of the health of citizens and promoting clinical trials within the framework of the European Union. It is therefore intended to create a framework for carrying out clinical trials in accordance with the highest standards of protection of the rights, security, dignity and well-being of the subject with a view to the production of reliable and robust data for all Member States of the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Health, Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs: With the approval of this bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u177	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. With the adoption of this bill, the Government continues with the plan of health recovery in Portugal, in fact, as stated in its Government Programme. It therefore has the support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the adoption of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u179	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, we would like to mention that it seems to us that we could have prepared the debate on this bill for more time so that, during the specialization process, we could have more time. In view of the concerns raised by this initiative — which raises questions in the ethical, data protection and health plans — it would, of course, take more time for the Assembly of the Republic to be able to do a work with the depth and seriousness that the theme requires. We are well aware that this bill arises following the publication of the 2014 Regulation, Parliament and the Council. On the issues related to clinical trials, we would like to say the following: we understand that, in the approach of subjects associated with clinical research, there are previous considerations that should be addressed: the dignity and rights of people involved in clinical research projects—in our perspective, people are the central element of any research and nothing or any interest can be overshadowed by the individual interests of each participant; any clinical investigation should only be carried out to acquire knowledge, otherwise there is no legitimacy for its realization in individuals; clinical studies should be integrated into a strategy defined by the Government for clinical research that meets the interests and needs of the National Health Service and users. Therefore, clinical research and clinical trials, for us, should obey these three general principles, but which are at the heart of safeguarding national interests, the interests of the National Health Service, the health of users and, of course, the protection of people, their safeguarding and their dignity. We have identified that this bill remains in the same error of the law in force in our country: it summarizes the clinical investigation to the intervention and the interest of industry. That is, it refers to clinical trials, but we have much more research beyond the clinical trials themselves. However, we should think, when we speak in clinical research and clinical trials, in all its dimensions, in all its aspects and potentialities. There is also another limitation on the following: today, clinical trials are underlying the interests of the large pharmaceutical industry and we needed — indeed, we have come to put this issue in the House — that the State could also intervene in the area of research. We have put forward a proposal for the creation of the national laboratory of medicine, which would also have to be able, within the framework of our country's strategy and interest, to ensure that the State and the Government are not held hostage to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, to also have investment so that we can have our own research and produce knowledge at this level.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u181	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u182	Obviously, in the context of advances in scientific and technological developments in the field of health, these tests are inevitable, so that we can have new drugs and new technology, but we also need to think about the national interest and not only go after the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u183	To close the debate, you have the floor again to the Secretary of State for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the various contributions. I think that, in general, this law does not raise great doubts about its objective, which is paramount and consensual. I would like to stress, again, the importance of planning and governance in relation to clinical research and the responsibilities of the bodies themselves. Several entities have been heard and their contributions have been identified. We will probably be able to hear other entities and I am sure that future work will enrich this law. There is indeed a number of contributions. This law clearly has to be articulated with the law governing the Statute of the Medicinal Products for the definition of the concept of testing centres, for example, or financial conditions. This law also aims to promote research. I note that its scope is only from clinical trials, not specifically from scientific research in the broad sense. This law also seeks to promote research outside the pharmaceutical industry and we are sure of the fundamental role to be taken in the future, both by INFARMED and by the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research. We are confident in your ability to do so. I will not be long enough to explain how this is clearly an absolutely strategic area for all of us and not only for the health sector itself. I am grateful once again for everyone's contribution, and I am sure that together we will be able to come to a strong law aimed at the health of all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u185	With the intervention of the Secretary of State for Health, the general debate of the Proposal for a Law No 199 / XIII / 4 is closed. a. We move on to point six, with the overall assessment of the Bill No 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes mechanisms for settling disputes involving the competent authorities of Portugal and other Member States of the European Union as a result of the interpretation and application of international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1852. To present the bill on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor. First, however, I wanted to ask the parliamentary groups to sign up to intervene, because for now there is no one registered. You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law which the Government brings today to the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic transposes a directive setting out the dispute resolution mechanisms for cases of international taxation, in particular of companies. We must understand this legislative initiative within the framework of all the legislative initiatives we have made in the fight against tax elections. It is very important that, in cross-border corporate taxation, we can have mechanisms that avoid aggressive tax planning, but that also avoid, and essentially, erosion of taxable bases and double non-taxation on the basis of that same reality. That is why what we are doing here, with this mechanism, is to give confidence to companies and businesses that make this cross-border legal trade, in order not only to ensure that conventions to avoid double taxation are applied, but also to prevent effective situations of double taxation of companies, which is a competitive disadvantage for them. That is why what we are following at the coordinated level of the European Union are initiatives that allow an alternative mechanism to which, so far, it was a conciliation mechanism in which the authorities of the two Member States were seeking a solution to a dispute. But this has been a solution that is not a solution, because it takes a long time and because it does not give any security to the companies that will see your case solved in good time and who are often paying double taxes. And we do not want to escape taxes, nor do companies pay the same tax twice. That is why we are moving forward in an alternative dispute resolution mechanism that allows — either through an advisory committee or through an alternative dispute resolution committee, with experts indicated by both the tax authorities of the States — that the parties can appoint these experts and submit to arbitration to avoid, exactly, these differences in the level of double taxation. With the transposition of this directive, which will be associated by the end of the year with the transposition of the ATAD 2 ( Anti Tax Avoidance Directive ), we have closed a very important cycle in which the Assembly of the Republic has participated throughout this legislature, which is a cycle of approval of the measures that are in the front line to combat the phenomena of tax evasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u188	Mr President, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Members: The proposed law of the Government is intended to transpose into national legislation a directive seeking to speed up the resolution of tax disputes resulting from cross-border business activities. The deadline for transposition has already been exceeded, which does not seem sufficient justification for this proposal to have arrived at Parliament without any expert opinion or even without mention that consultations have been carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u189	That's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u190	This, in our view, is a formal failure, because it disrespects the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which it requires. But it is also a legislative failure, because a matter of this technical nature actually requires great technical and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u192	In any case, the objective of the directive is worthy, because it has been found that international agreements and conventions and even the arbitration convention are insufficient and therefore, with this directive, the dispute resolution is sought to be resolved by friendly agreement between the competent authorities. The proposed mechanism provides that, in the event of a dispute, at a first stage, the matter shall be submitted to the national authority and the competent authorities of the other Member States within three years of the act which gave rise to it, and the situation shall be resolved thereafter. The proposal that the Government does not disrespect us — and that is important for the PSD — is a fundamental principle, which is to avoid gold plating, a practice that can be verified and that is to transpose a directive in such a way that it affects the competitiveness of our companies. That seems positive to us. Still, there are improvements to be made, and in the work on the specialty we will consider some government options, in particular the question of the date of application of this new mechanism. It is that the directive allows for the application of disputes relating to income or inheritance of tax periods prior to 2018, a date chosen by the Government, but it seems to us that greater freedom could have been given — the freedom given by the directive — to ensure that date of application in the first or the general case of the directive itself, which gives up to three years to present the dispute to the authority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u193	I now give the floor to Mr António Gameiro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Dear colleagues : This bill that the Government brings to the Assembly fulfils the Government's strategic goal of creating a better fiscal framework for businesses, developing fiscal transparency and a fair, efficient and growth-friendly business taxation system. The underlying principle is that companies should pay taxes in the country where profits are generated and that practices should be prevented from paying part of the tax due to them in national territory. At the same time, this bill seeks to ensure that there are no insufficient answers or some sort of complicity, whether voluntary or involuntary, by the authorities of other countries who strive to attract or maintain the profits of multinational companies in their own territory. In the framework of implementation, what is at stake is, above all, the implementation of a coordinated approach with regard to the fight against cross-border problems that companies have to face, against uncertainty and against the increase in administrative charges they are required, when placed in the face of double taxation. Company concerns are known and therefore aggressive tax planning measures are in fact necessary which may, inadvertently, lead to double taxation or tax disputes between tax administrations on the basis of taxation. it is extremely important to move forward with this improvement of international conflict resolution procedures. In addition, it is sufficient to read the report on combating fraud and tax and customs evasion, which the Office of the Secretary of State has sent to the Assembly of the Republic, and which is now on Parliament's website, in order to understand the situation we are experiencing today in this regard. Throughout the European Union, it is recognised that the mechanisms currently provided for in the conventions to avoid double taxation, either in the arbitration convention, of the Union, do not guarantee a prompt and effective resolution of disputes between companies and the competent authorities of the different countries concerned. The aim is to create a mechanism of friendly procedure combined with a phase of arbitration, with defined deadlines and an obligation of outcome for all Member States, which is effective, binding and binding in the resolution of disputes involving double taxation. Therefore, more security and predictability are ensured for investors, with regard to the neutralisation of the additional costs resulting from double taxation and the strengthening of their rights in choosing the resolution mechanisms to be applied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u195	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u196	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. State Secretaries. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, with regard to the objectives of this bill that we are now discussing and that has to do with the resolution of disputes within international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income, there will be no major disagreements. This is, in fact, a transposition of a directive and a part of the assumption, of course, that on the one hand we must work to combat tax elections and that on the other hand it makes sense that taxes are paid on a site. In other words, what makes sense is that the same people and, in particular, the same companies are not taxed twice and that they do not use the various laws to avoid being taxed at all. Therefore, the idea of the existence of mechanisms, agreements and conventions and the resolution of disputes in this area, from an international point of view, seems relevant to us, always in respect of the fiscal sovereignty of each country. However, I would like to highlight the following: firstly, we are already at the end of the legislature and I believe that these matters should be analysed with some technical care, which is difficult to achieve in the very small space of 15 days; secondly, this initiative could be accompanied by this technical work, but the Government has chosen not to follow the opinions; lastly, because this can be read in the technical note, the Government has done as much as it is known to assess the economic and financial impact of this bill, in the meantime, it did not intend to share this assessment of the economic and financial impact with Parliament. This is also an old issue that we have already raised in the CDS about the budgetary impact and the economic impact that the Government now assesses within the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. This was a very publicized measure by the government, but it has the slight defect of the evaluations carried out to remain secret. We now know that the budgetary impact is being evaluated, we know that the economic impact is being assessed, but the government is keeping that information and not sharing it. Now, I do not know very well why these impact assessments should be used if they are not shared and, if so, are not shared with the legislator, which is Parliament. It might be a good idea to add this assessment to this proposal because it would greatly facilitate its discussion in the field of expertise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u197	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: International agreements and conventions that aim to avoid double taxation of income have become mechanisms that, in practice, are used by the large capital to, through aggressive tax planning, escape payment of due taxes. According to the Banco de Portugal data for 2018, the main destination of Portugal's direct investment abroad is the Netherlands, where more than EUR 13 billion are covered by the special treatment under double taxation agreements. The CFP defends the principle of income taxation in countries where they are generated to prevent large capital from using files, including double taxation, to steal from the fulfilment of their tax obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u199	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u200	This is a principle whose implementation is essential for the construction of a fairer taxation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : This bill does not respond to the need to tax large companies and economic groups more appropriately. On the contrary, it creates instruments for the enjoyment and benefit of these companies and groups, providing them with new ways to solve their problems. Yes, we are talking about a legislative initiative aimed at large companies and economic groups, as Article 25 shows. the proposal of the law, which expressly restricts access to natural persons and to smaller companies. The proposed law provides that, at the request of large companies, advisory committees may be set up to issue opinions on the issues in dispute, committees which, in addition to integrating representatives of the national competent authorities — Government and Tax Authority — also comprise such "independent" personalities. The inclusion of these national and foreign personalities in the process of resolving tax disputes is conditional and limits the decision-making capacity of the national tax authority. If, for example, there is no agreement between the Portuguese tax authority and its Dutch congener with regard to the taxation of a large number of national GSPS(society manager of social participations) located in the Netherlands, the advisory committee's opinion becomes binding, but if these GSPs do not accept the decision, they can always resort to the judicial procedure. In other words, the decision of the advisory committees always binds the Member States, but does not bind the large companies involved in disputes. As it is a mechanism for resolving tax disputes, an instrument at the service of large capital, it is not surprising that the bill determines that decisions on these disputes can only be published in full if the companies involved give their authorization; otherwise, the national competent authorities can only publish a summary of the decision. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The CFP does not follow this legislative initiative and reaffirms the need to move forward in order to implement the basic principle of income taxation in the territories where they are generated, which is essential for the proper taxation of large businesses and economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u201	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: It has already been said that double taxation agreements reverse the principle of taxation which, for us, is the right principle, which is tax at source, in the country where income is generated, always and as a rule. by reverse this principle, these agreements, which aim, supposedly and theoretically, to bring more information and prevent injustice and double taxation, allow all kinds of abuses and tax planning that precisely exploit the dead angles of the various agreements. There is also a concept called treaty shopping that is to seek the best combination of double non-taxation agreements to achieve not paying taxes anywhere. Instead of attempting to resolve this problem of taxation and the huge tax fraud that exists and which is also promoted by Member States of the European Union and of the euro area, this bill creates a way of settling disputes between Member States and between companies and Member States which does nothing but empower large companies against the legitimate and sovereign rights of States when tax matters promoted by these double taxation agreements are concerned. Here is the respect for the sovereignty of the Portuguese State. But what is the respect for the sovereignty of the Portuguese State when the Portuguese State is bound by the decision of an advisory committee, which has independent members who we do not know who they are, but that same advisory committee does not link interested parties that are private companies? So what is at stake here is not only giving new and better mechanisms to large private companies—which are those who use double taxation agreements, because they are certainly not SMEs—to be able to fight against the state, without giving more powers to the state, but still privatize, let us say, a part of justice, giving powers to supposed advisory committees, with the appointment of entities and personalities that we do not know who they are—let us know! — and what they think about double taxation agreements and tax planning. I believe that our position is clear: we are not in any way in accordance with these types of schemes, but we are always available to implement measures that, in fact, want to combat tax planning, in particular through the exploitation of such agreements. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u203	To close this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have listened carefully to the various speeches. Allow me now to say the following: Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I have an idea that, a short time ago, she voted in favour of ratifying the multilateral instrument which was signed in the OECD. Now, having voted in favour of this ratification, I think you will know that the treaty shopping is fought exactly at the MLI (Multilateral Instrument ) that you just voted for.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u205	It's not with this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u206	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, to bring to the debate something that has nothing to do with what is being discussed does not seem to me to be the most effective way of having a discussion, which is serious. Mrs Deputy, I know you well and I want to believe in your commitment to combating fraud, avoidance and tax evasion. But, Mrs Deputy, the construction of our legal order is a set of diplomas, and we should not just select those who give us the best way at a given time. That is why, Mrs. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá, this instrument is not to be at the service of large companies. [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] This instrument is to be at the service of the economy. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is cross-border trade, we must be both concerned about avoiding double non-taxation, as we must be concerned that the same company does not pay the same tax in two states. I think this is a basic principle of real income taxation. That is why we are bringing here today this legislative initiative, a directive adopted in 2017 and the transposition of which was approved in May. The economic impact assessment was made by the European Commission and is available. I am absolutely sure that this is another very effective tool for combating tax evasion and ensuring fair trade and fair taxation of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u207	Having concluded the general discussion of the Bill No 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), we say goodbye to Mrs. Members of the Government present. We will start the debate, in general, of Bill Nos 1196 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Sets limits and additional advertising rules for nominations to support political office holders, 1198 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The seventh amendment to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January 2004 and the second amendment to the Statutes of the Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Committee, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 1200 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007 to the second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August 2008 to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February 2008 and to the second amendment to the Statute of the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration, published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 1201 / XIII / 4. a ( Nsc. ) — The second amendment is made to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration, published in Annex A to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the law on the organization and operation of the entity for transparency and amends to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Organization Act, Function and Procedure of the Constitutional Court ) and 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates the entity for transparency in the exercise of public office, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1239 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic and 2174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this agenda we find a very diverse set of subjects which ultimately correspond to the completion of the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions. It is true that a number of substantial amendments to the legislation on this matter have already been approved in this plenary, but it is still important to ensure that all the amendments that have been made subsequently have been translated into complementary legislation. And these are just two of the main subjects that today call us. On the one hand, the approval of the regime for the operation of a transparency entity to ensure the functions of receiving, processing and advertising of declarations that correspond to the declarative obligations of the holders of public office, an organic and administrative part which, in our view, is indispensable to ensure the existence of a response to the very substantial number of holders of positions who will be subject to reporting obligations, providing the entity with human and financial resources to be able to guard it. In the work that the Commission has also been developing, we have had the opportunity to receive contributions from the Constitutional Court itself, where we propose that this entity operate. And our openness to make sure that questions relating to the physical location of operation, to the functioning of the financial and human resources plan exist and we hope that, in the coming weeks, it will be possible to carry out this task on the basis of a model that seems more solid to us and which also corresponds to practices that have been introduced in this area in recent years. On the other hand, and in addition, since it is important that all the pieces are on the table so that, at the beginning of the course of these diplomas, there is no lack of regulation and no lack of legislation, it is also important to conclude the discussion on the code of conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic, which was also innovatively introduced into the substantial package we approved a few weeks ago, so that everything can work at the beginning of the next Parliament. We are well aware that this matter, by its nature, is better sympathetic to an assessment at the beginning of each legislature. We understand that the next Parliament of the Republic, of course, as happens, with the Rules of Procedure, will have all the freedom to re-appreciate the matter and adopt amendments or a new code of conduct. What is at the table here is to ensure that there are rules in this supplementary plan, regulation of codes of conduct, which ensure that all the legal provisions adopted come into force and can work, in particular those relating to hospitality and offers and the form of regular arrangements, since the law we have approved refers precisely to the codes of conduct in order to carry out this task. This is, in any case, a matter which corresponds to good parliamentary practices and which we find in many parliaments in Europe outside. Finally, on this subject, the PS Parliamentary Group also presents a bill on nominations for the offices of the holders of political bodies and positions, in which we also, as we have had the opportunity to give notice to the Commission, our availability for consensus and for the improvement of revisions is total and we hope that it can be guarded and welcomed by the House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u209	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor. Mr Deputy, as you know, can add to the time it has, of 1 minute, plus 1 minute, given by the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today a legislative package which, if approved, will enable us to take an important step forward in the credibility of the exercise of political functions and of high public positions. We must avoid falling into two opposite risks, not yielding to populist pretensions and demands, nor to any existing corporateism. I'll talk about the bills that I'm a author, one of them as a member of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and the others as an independent member. I want to leave a first note on the code of conduct of Members. The Assembly of the Republic should set an example, approving the code of conduct for the Members precisely now, because we are on the eve of elections and still behind what John Rawls called the « veil of ignorance», not knowing who will be next. Many will not be, so we can be more impartial in this matter. With regard to transparency in selecting leadership positions, we are in time to make an assessment of the leadership selection model through the CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration ) and to strengthen its transparency and clarity. There is, in fact, scope for improvements in this model. From then on, in the selection process of the President, the role of the Assembly of the Republic should be strengthened and there should be an extended consensus on the personality in question. Then, in the information that is conveyed in the competitive processes, should there not be an ordination of candidates and a disclosure of all CVs (curricula vitae) of shortlist candidates? I think so. It is also important to know for which charges there should be only the opinion of CRESAP and which ones in which there should be competition. The way to improve transparency and clarify the responsibility of policyholders is to give them the opportunity to appoint people directly to certain positions where the alignment of interests between the politician and the senior manager is essential. We must assume, of course, that there are political confidence positions which must have mandates similar to those of the political position holder and predominantly technical positions with longer mandates and competitive processes. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with a fundamental idea, I am going back to the beginning of my speech. We have a unique opportunity to take a step forward in the transparency and effectiveness of selecting leadership positions, which we should not waste. The proposals I put forward are not mine, they result from what I have heard from others here in the Assembly of the Republic, I have spoken and I have found it reasonable. They must certainly be debated and improved, and therefore I have applied for the discharge to the committee of those projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u211	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject currently under discussion, linked to appointments, transparency or codes of conduct, automatically puts the eyes of the Portuguese on us. And we have to take responsibility here. The truth is that in this debate, which has not begun today, the PSD has not only been accompanying, has been active and involved. Moreover, it is up to us to present the entity for transparency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u213	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u214	... whose concept we went to drink to the Entity for the Accounts and Financing of the Parties as well as the new code of ethics for the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u215	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u216	But it is true here to highlight what the PSD has done, also to highlight what the Government and the Socialist Party, unfortunately, have not done. It is that the government, perhaps the most responsible, at the moment, for the climate of strong disbelief that affects rulers and politicians, has not been able to give us answers that put an end to this climate of distrust. In other words, the Government is still not a part of the solution and, on the contrary, it is a part of the problem. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] When the question of appointments or the existence of several members of the same family in the government is not even answered, we ask: where is the government? Where is the Socialist Party? But more than that, this discussion ended up being disenchanted in time and space. First of all, because the government could call this matter to itself, because it was the matter of its reservation, and in its own time to resolve the issue of nominations, « it threw the stone and hid its hand », it launched to Parliament the stigma and the solution of the problem, which he himself did not want or, better, could not solve. Even more than that, the PSD does not accept that nothing is added to the next Legislation. We are here and we are Members, from the first to the last day, with equal legitimacy and we do not agree to postpone what concerns improvements in the quality of our democracy. If we can do it, let's do it now and let's do it here. Thus, the PSD challenges the Socialist Party and other parties in good time to give shape to these measures, because they — and rightly said, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves — support what has already been decided in this Chamber in good time. We don't understand why we have to postpone when we can solve it. And that's what the Portuguese expect of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u217	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the CDS we recognize that there is a problem of credibility in our political system, but we note that, at the end of three years, what is to be presented is deeply discouraging. We discussed today a collection of remedies. The cases were happening and unfortunately, instead of having had enough serenity to present consistent solutions, which would ensure more transparency and scrutiny of the citizens, which ended up legislating the trailer of specific cases. These cases have happened and this method is, in fact, revealing the bad conscience of the proposers. It's the constant flight forward, it's the constant remix.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u219	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u220	contrary to what they think, what they end up doing is speeding up populism instead of fighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u221	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u222	More solutions such as those of the transparency entity — a sort of political police — for which the Constitutional Court had the opportunity to draw attention to its constitutional risks, and the first of these risks is that of decharacterizing the court itself, in addition to the risk of creating a privileged jurisdiction for politicians. The very lack of installation and means, in particular, human, financial, IT, will prevent that entity from functioning. It was clear that this entity could never work at a time when the proponents want it to work, so I tell you, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no remedy that I can save such a bad cloth! And what about bills on support offices? Oh, my God! The CDS had the opportunity to say that we do not legislate on common sense and ethics. Or, better, about the lack of good sense and about the lack of ethics. There is a great deal of uncertainty in order for the government, faced with the scandal of family and cross-border appointments, to have brought this problem to the Assembly of the Republic, and it is true that for three years the PS has been saying in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, that it was not possible to legislate on matters which fall within the exclusive competence of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u224	We do not fail to note that this was the same PS that now presents this bill. In fact, what about the parties that approved that the impediments of political office holders were reduced to parents and children and that now they are proposing proposals for the cabinets, which go up to the fourth degree of the collateral line? It reveals very little coherence. And when does a new case arise? By the way, what about friends? Oh, my God! Have you forgotten friends, whether they are more or less generous? Have you forgotten to legislate about your friends, your paternal brothers and sisters? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, following a bad Statute of Members there cannot be a good code of conduct either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u225	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that « what is born wrong, late or never right». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u227	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I wanted to record the position of the Left Block on the work that has been done in the Transparency Committee. We have said, for a long time, that it takes us some time to get somewhere, but we do not devalue the work that has been accomplished, because it has allowed the obligations of declaration and transparency to be deepened, extended to a wider universe, both of politicians and of high public positions, and we need to take a fundamental step to give shape to the creation of the transparency entity. I note that the Left Block remained to have a consensus in this House so that the transparency entity would be a reality. We proposed it in the past legislature, when PSD, CDS and PS were against, but now, four years later, we are on the eve of its creation. It is essential that it be created and only if there is, in fact, a thorough monitoring of the declarative obligations of what is inscribed by politicians, by high public offices, can you find that what is already in existence is enough for everything. The Constitutional Court has told us, by the voice of its vice-president, who are currently the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Constitutional Court that runs behind the cases raised by the press.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u229	They were already!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u230	So if the CDS lives well with this reality, we don't live. If others live well with this reality, we do not live because it is this absence of the declarative obligations and the lack of their supervision that populisms live. To make populist speeches, the CDS serves; to create more obligations or to give more muscle to this supervision, the CDS already runs away!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u232	They are choices, Mr. Member, they are choices, but it is not the choice of the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u233	This debate requires the seriousness of those who want a more qualified democracy for the country, of those who want transparency that qualifies this democracy and rejects any kind of populism, and this is only done by means of monitoring the declarations. We know that we must heed some of the warnings that have been issued by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u234	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u235	There we will be to do this, but we will not abandon this primary objective, which is to ensure the supervision of politicians and high public positions, despite others, such as the CDS, if they wish to resign from this matter. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] To conclude, Mr President, on the question of the appointment of persons to high political positions, offices, etc. , we know that the proposal presented by the PS is to go after the loss of its own choices and that if the government code of conduct had had these concerns, this legislative initiative would not have taken place. for our part, we will not stay in the debate in the form, we want to go even to the debate of the content.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u237	To conclude, Mr President, we are available to ensure that we will have a good law as a result, even though we know that the motivation for your presentation is the race behind a damage that seems to us to be beyond any remedy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u238	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today on 25. the time, a new set of legislative initiatives of the so-called "transparency package" which, in particular, does not contribute to the proposed end. I would like to highlight two sets of initiatives, the first being the so-called transparency entity. The CFP has always expressed doubts and criticized the creation of this police of politicians, which, first of all, has everything to do wrong. Don't come and say no one warned them! It should be noted that the holders of high public and political positions are already being inspected in their declarative obligations through the Public Prosecutor's Office at the Constitutional Court. Creating this entity that aims exclusively to monitor high public and political positions is a mistake, because it encourages prejudice against the whole political class.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u240	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u241	The Constitutional Court itself at the hearing held in 1. the Commission, demolished the idea of the creation of this transparency entity, and not only the problem of installations and human resources was dealt with. What is at stake is the problem of the discharacterization of the Constitutional Court itself and this was clearly mentioned in the hearing of 1. the Commission. Finally, we want to point out that PS, PSD and BE create this entity, but at the same time they fill it with thousands of declarative obligations, significantly increase the number of persons with reporting obligations, which in practice means that supervision will be a mirage, because there will be no conditions to follow so many and so many declarative obligations that have been deliberately introduced in this entity. The second set of initiatives we want to address concerns the so-called code of conduct of Members. The first question is that this code of conduct establishes a set of rules and obligations, but then has no effective application. In this regard, I would use a very popular expression on my land, which is the following: and what? Oh, my God! Members do not comply with the code of conduct, and what? What's going on? Nothing, absolutely. Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u243	It is a complete exercise of self-flashing by the Assembly of the Republic, therefore it is incomprehensible that it is adopted. Finally, I would like to highlight the following aspect: in the parties there are codes of conduct that are freely accepted. The CFP has its own code of conduct, i.e. the PCP Members have a code of conduct for their party in which they are not benefited or harmed in the performance of their duties. None of the members of this bench earns more than 0, 01 € than they gained when they were in their profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u244	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u245	I won less!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u246	This is a code of conduct, but it is a code of conduct freely accepted by itself in relation to your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u248	There are no codes of conduct that can be imposed third-way to those who perform political functions in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u251	To make an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u252	It will necessarily have to be short, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u253	It will be very short, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u254	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u255	Mr President, I should like to point out in a telegraph that we are not reopening a process of discussion of these matters, we are concluding a process that has already had the approval of three diplomas, which are restructuring. There is no postponement because we are discussing all the instruments that are essential and what is intended is that the transparency entity and codes of conduct be approved and that may be in operation in the next Parliament. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I do not resist leaving this little note: if they are so fallible and so insufficient the PS nomination proposals, I wonder where yours are. What contribution have they made to this debate? [[PSD protests.]] We have every opportunity to welcome and discuss your proposals; however, demagogy and populism is in fact to proclaim and not to propose, it is not to come to the debate and not to contribute to the clarification and improvement of diplomas. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u256	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u257	Do you disagree with them? Give me a better idea! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u258	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which will be the last one, and which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 2239 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — General principles for awarding grants to support the political activity of Members. Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u259	Mr President, I believe that today the House is presented with an effective solution to a set of situations identified with regard to payment of Members' allowances. Situations which, due to the inadequacy of standards or behaviour, relate to the effectiveness of dwellings, the duplication of support for air travel payments or the payment of allowances for expenses, irrespective of their demonstration. These were problems that we had to face and for which, I believe, it was possible to find effective solutions. Having said this, I believe that the country knows that the solution we present here today was not the one preferred by the PSD. The PSD presented, in the working group, a solution to a profound reform, of maximum simplification, in order to create a single subsidy that would only be differentiated by electoral circle, which would solve all the problems of complexity and intelligibility by the country, all subject to taxation. However, the most important thing was to find a solution and that, in order to be approved by Parliament, would obviously have to be a majority. Not having the solution of a profound structural reform in this area, proposed by the PSD, which was welcomed by the other parties, we have worked with all of us. I would like to thank Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who was also coordinator of the working group, for the coordination effort he made to get to the right port, and also to all the parliamentary groups who focused on finding solutions with which everyone could live, even if we could disagree on time in some of them. For parliamentary history is our declaration of vote, where we point out some differences. I would obviously like to focus on highlighting the three main solutions we have found: the first, which obliges the address for relations with the Assembly of the Republic and for payment purposes is the same as for all Portuguese in their official relations, i.e. the address in the Citizenship Card and that, as the law requires, it is the effective residence; second, it is prevented from receiving double payments; and third, all payments paid or taxed, or are dependent on the demonstration of effectiveness. I therefore believe that the solutions are effective. The problems have not all been solved, because the solution is complex. We preferred something else, but the country can trust that this solution solved the problems that have been identified. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u260	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate we return to the conclusion of an issue which has dealt with the work of the House and which has already occupied the plenary in the legislative amendment before it. In a way, corresponding, in fact, to the intervention that Mr António Leitão Amaro has just made, in fact, this is the possible compromise. I think that no parliamentary group looks at the final result by saying 'good, if we had the ability to approve exactly what we wanted, that is what we would approve', but it is in fact a concerted effort which is also part of democracy. I would like to congratulate Mr. Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who piloted and commanded this difficult work for several months, which in the end produced a result that answers the essential questions, and that is what I think must be emphasized here this afternoon. Many complex issues were related to the tax regime and also to the need not to make the system so complex that it would become even more opaque and difficult to vote. This project allows to respond to doubts raised, in particular by the Court of Auditors and other entities accompanying the activities of the Assembly of the Republic, and allows the legislation in this case to be updated so that it corresponds to the requirements of a time, in which a resolution originating almost 20 years ago clearly no longer corresponded to those needs. What we approve of today and conclude is essentially an answer to two main questions which are then decomposed in others. First, there is a clear classification of what are the subsidies that the holders of this sovereignty body receive in the framework of what is their parliamentary work and what is the need to ensure that no citizen is harmed by the exercise of functions, and consequently it must be balanced. On the other hand, it guarantees clear procedures at four levels: with regard to the effectiveness of the travels made, with the introduction of a declaration that allows to judge and monitor this exercise; with clear rules on the choice of means of transport and the way of calculation from that option carried out; with the possibility, also mentioned, of the clear identification procedure of the dwellings for the purposes of processing these bonuses; and also, of course, with the possibility of updating with clarity and speed if any changes exist. What is evident today is that clear rules are better for all. Clear rules are better for incumbents who know what they should do at each time, without any confusion, so that it is also clear their relationship with the Assembly of the Republic. Clear rules are preferable for the institutions and for Parliament, which, of course, with this exercise, can respond to all the doubts legitimately posed by the citizens. But they are also preferable clear rules for citizens themselves, because they are those that guarantee transparency, that they guarantee the possibility of scrutiny and that they do so in a balanced and proportionate way. I believe that this is the exercise we have managed to achieve in this final line, in a set that effectively mobilizes many of the difficulties in the external perception of complex materials. We do not want to minimize the need for citizens to understand the functioning of their institutions, but at the same time we must recognize that not all solutions are linear and simple. And we have been able to make much progress on simplification, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, by ensuring a final result that is fair, balanced and proportionate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u262	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u263	Mr President, I would like to begin by complimenting you on the fact that, in addition to the tasks you are now exercising in the chairing session, it was also the coordinator of the working group that led to the revision of the Rules of Procedure and the draft resolution under discussion. On this text, I refer to what we have already had the opportunity to list, either at the meetings of the working group or in this plenary. We thought that it would have been possible, if there had been another moment for this debate, to make a truly profound change in the logic, in the structure of allocation of allowances and travel subsidies that were currently in force in the Assembly of the Republic. Some parliamentary groups have proposed some basic suggestions. We were available to make an in-depth evaluation, to ensure a change far beyond that which is on the table today, but clearly the time when this debate started, already at the end of the legislature, made this discussion impossible. I believe that it remains to be noted that we will have to return to this subject in the next legislature, so that in time we can think about a new system. The Left Block considers it essential for this new system to be effective in defining subsidies. This would imply a simplification of the current regime, which almost needs a manual to realize what is being assigned at every moment. This simplification should also correspond to an increase in the taxation of some of the subsidies. Therefore, in these two pillars, we had the opportunity to follow some of the proposed solutions, but we clearly realize that there were still many differences between the parliamentary groups so that we could make a deeper comeback. Even so, I believe that we can say today that we have been able to answer the questions which the Court of Auditors has put in a recent report: taxation is greater than before, by passing one of the allowances which was not taxed now; the indication of the address of the Members to the Assembly of the Republic is clarified, and that is exactly the same criterion that exists for the Citizen's Card — the identification of the address of a Member and a Member of Parliament becomes exactly the same in his relationship with the Assembly of the Republic and with the State, as is expected of any citizen or citizen; and there is no double subsidisation of travel, particularly with regard to the travels of Members and Members living in the autonomous regions, which was currently in force. So from our point of view, some problems have been cleared up, but it has not gone as far as we would like it to have been possible for us to be. In the future we will be able to go further, and I believe that there is a challenge for the question of simplification and greater transparency to result in greater taxation than is received by Members and Members. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u264	Mr Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by congratulating Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who coordinated this working group and who sought to respond to a succession of cases that have occurred in the Assembly of the Republic : the question of the duplication of public support for the displacement of the Members of the Azores and Madeira, which has also arrived to be mentioned by the Court of Auditors ; the question of the residences of the deputies; and the question of whether the travels were actually made or not. It is clear that, on the part of the CDS — and we demonstrate this in the working group — there was a willingness to review the whole system, with some principles that it is good to state: not increasing the expenditure or value received by Members and the possibility of consensualization. Unfortunately, this was not possible, and what we have today is a minimalist solution, which has tried to solve these cases that have devastated the Assembly. It was clear that the end of the cost aid within the electoral circle, which is taxed and not considered to be expenditure for the purpose of travel, was also clear the question of the duplication of the grants in relation to travel to the Azores and Madeira; in relation to the question of the address, which was decided is the constant of the Citizen's Card; and it was also clear that, in relation to the travels made by the Members, only those that are effectively made are paid. On this issue, I have already had the opportunity to say, in the previous debate — and it is often said that "the great is the enemy of the good" — that this solution is not optimal, nor is it good, is ultimately the possible solution. It is the possible solution, of course, to the phase of the timetable in which we find ourselves. I do not, however, fail to point out that rules can be changed, but the fundamental thing is to change behaviors. The risks remain if we do not change our behaviour, because we do not read common sense and because we want to implement rules, if we do not respect them, of course, that the House, all of us and us, will continue to be censored by public opinion and, as the CDS has said several times, to give rise to populisms. And for that, CDS doesn't count. The CDS has a very clear position that it has manifested since the beginning. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u266	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is in a way redundant, because we had a debate on this subject just a few days ago, but at that time it was on the basis of what was needed to be enshrined in the law and now it is on the resolution that has effectively implemented it. So this debate, let us say, was even indispensable, because it has actually already been done. We all know, and that has already been said by all of you. Members, that the need to amend certain rules has resulted from some cases which have been referred to in public opinion in relation to behaviour which we all consider to have not been corrected by some Members. None of the Members of the CFP have been involved in these cases, but this naturally does not prevent us from making our contribution to the improvement of rules which are considered to be capable of somehow preventing undesirable events. What Mr António Carlos Monteiro has just said is true: it is good to define the rules, it is good that they are as precise as possible, but it is good that the behaviours are compatible with what is obvious, ethical and socially acceptable in the conduct of holders of political positions and high public positions. We have made our contribution to the definition of precise rules for the dwellings to be indicated by the honourable Members, which are, of course, the real dwellings, those contained in their citizenship card. It is clear that travel paid by the House should not be duly subsidized. If the House pays them already, there is no way to repay them. Obviously, travel to the Assembly must be proved by a reliable form. I believe that these are rules that any citizen would say are of the most elementary sense, but it is good that they are actually enshrined in letters in form and, in that sense, we have made our contribution. We believe that this resolution which is now adopted is a common denominator. The consensualisation that has been possible is a positive step towards the establishment of stricter criteria for this type of subsidies and travel subsidies which the House naturally gives to its members. We have nothing more to add, Mr. President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u268	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my duty, in the exercise of the presidency, to pronounce me on the content of the resolution. I am grateful for the sympathy words they addressed to me as coordinator of this work. I now give the floor to the Secretary of the Chamber, Emilia Santos, to report on the presentation of a diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u269	Mr. President, an announcement that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, draft resolution No 2261 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the report « Portugal in the European Union 2018 ». That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-04.u270	Thank you, Secretary. The time has come to announce tomorrow's agenda. I would like to draw the attention of all the honourable Members. Members for the opening of the sitting at 9.30 a.m.. of the first point is the joint assessment of Petition No 536 / XIII / 3. a ( Gabriel da Conceição de Almeida Martins Boavida et al.) — They request the adoption of legislative measures and sensitization related to cardiac resuscitation and resolution projects n.o 1904 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the adoption of legislative and sensitization measures related to cardiac resuscitation, 1951 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Training plan in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, 1955 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government introduce compulsory training in secondary education on basic life support — external automatic defibrillation « SBV — DAE » and 2163 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Promotion of basic life support procedures. of the second point is the joint assessment of Petition No 514 / XIII / 3. a (António Alves Cardoso et al.) — They request the replacement of the parish of Pigeros and, in general, of the Law Projects Nos 1097 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Pigeiros, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reverting the Union of Freguesias imposed on the populations by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January, and 1098 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the parish of Caldas de São Jorge, municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, reversing the Union of Freguesias imposed on the people by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January. of the third point, the assessment of Petition No 364 / XIII / 2. a ( Bernardino José Torrão Soares et al.) — They request the expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures together with the Resolution Projects n. 1271 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the Metropolitan of Lisbon and an expansion plan that truly serves populations, 1974 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By an expansion of the Lisbon Metropolitan network articulated with the mobility needs of the metropolitan area, 2122 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the expansion of the metropolitan network of Lisbon, 2124 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — For the suspension of the Metropolitan Line Expansion Project ( Carrossel ) in Lisbon and 2198 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the priority expansion of the metropolitan network to the municipality of Loures. of the fourth point is the assessment of Petition No 508 / XIII / 3. a ( Florival Baiôa Monteiro et al.) — They request the realization of works at IP8 / A26 and at Beja airport, the electrification of the railway section White House - Beja - Funcheira and better health services together with the Resolution Projects Nos 1763 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — By fulfilling the National Road Plan and by completing the IP8 in the districts of Setúbal and Beja and 2196 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the electrification and requalification of the railway portion Casa Branca - Beja - Funcheira. Fifthly, we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 525 / XIII / 3. a ( Vasco Rodeia Torres Colaço et al.) — They request the creation of legislation clarifying what corresponds to a « service effectively provided» for the purposes of Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July as well as the definition of criteria for updating banking commissions together with, in general, Law Projects No 790 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ), 791 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted for consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ) and 1199 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers. At the sixth point, we will appreciate Petition No 546 / XIII / 4. a ( Nuno Miguel Neves dos Prazeres et al.) — They call for measures to defend the right to education in Fatima together with the Resolution Projects Nos 1853 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima parish and 1937 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in Fátima parish. of the seventh point is, without time allocated for discussion, the Bill No. 1005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Castelões and the Union of Ruivães and Novais of Vila Nova de Famalicão. There will be regular votes at the end of the debate and, as we all know, we will have a long script ahead of us. Nothing else to deal with for today, I say goodbye to tomorrow, 9 o'clock and 30 minutes. I wish a good afternoon to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 48 minutes.]]
