ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, very late and very good year for everyone. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get to the agenda, Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, will read out an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is an opinion on the waiver and replacement in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. Luís Campos Ferreira ( PSD ), electoral circle of Viana do Castelo, by Liliana Silva, with effect from 1 January 2019, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement in question is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the first item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 1885 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the amounts of the Decentralisation Financing Fund ( FFF ) in 2019. Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PSD decentralization is a fundamental process and decentralization for the authorities is a decisive part of this process. We believe that it allows the approximation of decisions to citizens; we believe that it allows greater promotion of territorial cohesion; we believe that it helps improve the quality of the services provided to the people and we also believe that it allows the rationalization of resources available. The PSD is a party of local power, always had a reformist view of the state, based on a decentralized public administration. With the legitimacy of those who have always been at the forefront of this process, the PSD, in this Parliament, was the first party in Parliament to convene the other political forces for this debate. On behalf of the national interest, the PSD signed an agreement with the Government on decentralization, which assumed that by the end of July 2018 Parliament approved the Framework Law on decentralization and a new Local Finance Act, and there was a review of the Local Finance Act. It assumed that, at the same time, the Government approved the sectoral decrees and financial envelopes associated with each of the authorities, with the identification of the funds of the areas and the powers to be transferred, so that the authorities, by 15 September, would decide whether or not to accept these new powers. The government has not fulfilled its share. The Government has not been able to make adequate use of the important contributions that the PSD has made in this area. The Government should have entered in the State budget for 2019 the financial resources to be allocated to local authorities and inter-municipal entities for the pursuit of new responsibilities, the amounts of which should be included in the Fund for Financing Decentralisation ( FFF ). Neither did the government comply with this legal obligation. It is, therefore, with deep concern that the PSD assists the systematic delays of the government which can in no way compromise the materialization of the transfer of new competences to the authorities and inter-municipal entities in this legislature. Thus, in order to prevent the work of a whole decentralization legislation from being lost, we propose that the Government communicate to the authorities and inter-municipal entities by the end of January 2019 the maps with the amounts of the FFF, from the appropriations entered in the budget and social security programmes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u6	...and also listing the entire estate to be transferred. We also propose that the maps be presented to Parliament with the amounts of the Financial Fund for Decentralisation by the end of February 2019 for discussion and approval. The PSD proposes a 60-day deadline, after publication of the law with the funds of the FDD, for municipalities and inter-municipal entities to communicate to the Directorate-General of Local Authorities ( DGAL) that do not intend to exercise the new powers in 2019, if they do not intend to, allowing a single meeting of their deliberative bodies. The government has been able to create a wrapper in this whole process. Only 10 Decrees-Laws are published, half are still missing, and we already have a huge variety...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u7	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, only 10 Decrees-Laws are published, half of them are still missing, and we already have a huge variety of deadlines for each authority to accept the new competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u9	Thank you very much, Mr, but you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u10	That doesn't make sense! With this PSD initiative, we hope to free the country from the confusion created by this government and make this process decorate within normality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u11	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the project presented here, the PSD outlines a set of criticisms and regrets that the process of decentralisation is delayed and the financial resources to be allocated to the authorities and other entities under the Financing Fund for Decentralisation have not been entered in the State budget. It says even that the PSD, and I quote, « at the end of three years decentralization of competences is a mirage. Do not keep on seeking. ” In addition to strangers, the proposals presented by the PSD here are cartoonists, even surrealists. As you usually say, only seen, because I tell no one to believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u14	But what does the PSD complain about? Isn't it the PSD that has dealt with the PS and the government all the mess of the alleged decentralization of competences? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u16	Isn't the PSD, too, one of the parents of the child? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u18	With all this process, which is going very badly, it is not worth coming here to victimise itself, trying to « shake the water from the hood», because the PSD together with the PS and the government are the real responsible for the trick created in the country and in particular to the municipalities. The PSD and the Government negotiated and announced to the country, with a pump and circumstances, that they had reached an agreement within the framework of the municipalization of competences, but did not allocate the funds corresponding to those powers. Above all, the PSD demanded that all this counter-reform be completed by 2021 and that it had an imperative character for all municipalities. However, the PSD clearly did not have the strength to require the government and PS to transfer the necessary financial resources in the context of the State budget in 2019. What will the country's autoarchs, the parish, the municipalities now say, who have believed in a real decentralization of competences and who now meet the « boy in hand », without knowing what to do? Oh, my God! [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] What the PSD now does is "to run behind the damage" which, together with the government, has caused the authorities and the populations. As you know, tomorrow we will discuss here in this House a number of parliamentary assessments and the PSD, despite the criticisms you have made, did not have the courage to present a single proposal for parliamentary assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u19	A single one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u20	For the Left Block, which believes and fights for an effective process of decentralization, including the implementation of regionalization, and without the central State being irresponsible of important social functions such as health, education, culture, housing, social security, this whole process is being used to frame the authorities, who are in real uncertainty because of responsibility of both the PSD and the PS and the government themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u21	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate here today, as well as the debate tomorrow, on the assessment of various sectoral diplomas within the competences to be transferred to local authorities, is further evidence that, in this area, as in many others, the government has failed. It failed a reform that the government itself designated, soon in its Government Programme, as fundamental and failed because of inertia and inability to do the housework, to study, analyze and bring to the knowledge of all how this reform would be, as it would be implemented, that money would be allocated, that services would be transferred...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u24	...or that human means would be affected. It has also failed in the lack of involvement of all: authorities, populations, bodies, institutions, because, as it has been seen, this is a process which has been led by the government to the closed door.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u26	We believe that only with the involvement and contribution of all is that it could indeed be desirable to be a real reform of the State. The Government, in particular through the Minister of Internal Administration, says that we are at the beginning of the process, that implementation will be carried out later. But, after all, what's the beginning? The government began with the end. He first presented a general and abstract formula, without any practical support, and then approved a series of diplomas, in several areas, which also very little concrete, but we will leave this matter to deal with tomorrow. The CDS, with its initiative on decentralization of competences, made it clear and clear its understanding: no reform of this nature could be implemented without clearly defining the functions and competences to be transferred to the authorities and inter-municipal entities, the ability to implement these competences...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u28	... and all financial, material and human resources necessary for the full functioning and performance of these same functions. What we see is that this process, led by the government, fails in all those principles, from the outset with regard to financial resources. First, in the Local Finance Act, they adopted a rule on the bottom of empty decentralisation of content and then in the State budget, the Government again presented a standard for transfers to that fund without any content or money defined,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u29	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u30	... depending on any transfer of the will of the respective Ministry, which was obviously plunged by this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u32	The PSD, through this initiative, seeks to give the government a hand in trying to save all this mess...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u33	I'm sorry, sir, but there's a huge noise in the room. I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members, who are standing — some even on the bench of the speaker himself — to resume their seats so that the speaker can be heard. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your speech. I was saying that the PSD, through this initiative, seeks to give the government a hand in trying to save this mess by asking itself to do what the government has so far not been able to do. however, we have many doubts that this will happen. The government has always looked at this process of decentralization only as a way of voting and not in any serious way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u36	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this will continue, without prejudice to the most important reforms in the state, which is decentralisation. Don't count on the CDS for this shit. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u37	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u38	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, and wish you all a good year. in my first speech as a non-registered Member, I wanted to clarify the position I took on this whole process and leave some final notes on the draft resolution of the PSD. Portugal needs more decentralization and it was good that this whole process had been started with a study on how this process of decentralization would be carried out. And what is certain is that the responsibilities in this case are not only from the government, they are also from the PSD, they are shared. This whole process was led by a political agreement between the PS and the PSD, the Government, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias, on the side of Parliament, in its fundamental stone. I have repeatedly insisted over the past year that the Local Finance Law was the key to the success or failure of the process of decentralization...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u39	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, so I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u40	I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that I hope that whatever the solution is, it means a significant involvement of the Assembly of the Republic in this process. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u41	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, although there are several parliamentary groups that have not yet used the floor. I don't know if they don't intend to use the word... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u42	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u43	I am sure that you have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proximity serves better people, a principle always assumed by the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, who believe in the democratic local power and courageously realized what is a real reformist ambition of long ago and who will build a different country for the future, and different for the better. It took courage and ambition to make such a profound reform. The Socialist Party was not alone in this decision and, invoking the national interest, signed with the PSD an agreement for decentralization, assuming that effectively the local power and the strengthening of its competences and means strengthen the capacity to respond to the problems of the population and generate greater transparency in the relations between central and local power. This is in addition to ensuring that commitments between the different party forces guarantee and safeguard the implementation of policies, enabling them to acquire consolidation and robustness. This is what was intended with the said agreement, which allowed the approval, in plenary on 18 June 2018, of the Framework Law for the Decentralization of Competences and the Law of Local Finances, resulting from a long joint work, not only of the parties that subscribe to the agreement, but of all, in a process of maturation that had as privileged partners the representatives of the municipalities and the parish, principal executives, in the future, of these same policies. We always knew that the consensus we sought with determination, and for which we worked, would be difficult to achieve, because change brings challenges and novelty is hardly accepted unanimously. To know the process, its complexity and the multiple meetings and hearings that took place, in addition to the improvements that have been made, and to say now that the government has not complied with its part and that decentralization is a mirage is not correct. The Government and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party believe that the way to this reform must be confident, in a gradual process, that the principle of subsidiarity should be met and that in 2021 the law should assume its general and universal character. The draft resolution in question recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the maps with the amounts, criteria and terms of the Fund as well as the listing of all the assets to be transferred and also that it grant a 60-day deadline after publication of the law for communication to DGAL if they do not intend to exercise the expected competences in 2019. The Socialist Party reminds the PSD that the sectoral diplomas involving financial means, with particular emphasis on education and health, provide for prior access to financial information before decision-making. with regard to point 3 of the draft resolution, we would like to make it clear that we cannot make successive changes to the deadlines, that in each diploma the corresponding deadline is defined and that this deadline is already in progress in all the diplomas published. Finally, we want to note the possibility of setting up a municipal committee with the participation of the Government to monitor transfers of competences involving financial means, to assess the existence of failures and the need for corrections, ensuring the transparency of the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u45	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u46	In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also defends that much of what the country is today owes to its authorship and therefore we believe that decentralization will strengthen local democratic power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u47	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We record the PSD maneuvers on this matter, not only in the project that brings the debate, but also in the position that it takes, because the PSD wants to be well with God and the devil, seeking to avoid the problems arising from the ongoing process, whose leaders are PSD, CDS-PP and PS. The PSD has as many responsibilities as the Socialist Party, because if it were not the PSD who had given the hand to the PS, to approve what it was not able to be approved, it was not in this envelope, as Mr António Costa Silva mentioned here. The process of the transfer of competences to the authorities, currently in progress, is a non-coherent and incoherent process. The President of the Republic himself warned of a set of issues which the CFP had already put on the table in a timely manner, to which no answers were given: issues such as guaranteeing the universality of social and constitutional rights, deresponsibility of the Government in fundamental matters, more asymmetries and inequalities between municipalities and between territories, the fact that the conditions and means for the transfer of these powers are not guaranteed. To date, we still do not know exactly what resources are allocated, what financial resources are needed, what human resources, what technical means, to ensure this transfer of competence to the authorities. Therefore, we are not faced with any process of decentralisation but, indeed, with a transfer of burdens and problems to municipalities, from what the Government and successive governments have not been responding over the years. The PSD pretends it's in favor and pretends to be against. The PSD says it is concerned about the financial issues of the municipalities to hide the underfunding present throughout this process. It is important to bear in mind that the instrument for financial transfers to municipalities is subject to reservations from the Assembly of the Republic. But the question that is on the table concerning these means, and the PSD knows very well, indeed, the President himself of the National Association of Municipalities also mentioned it here, is that there are no elements, there are no data, there is no guarantee that the means that will be transferred are the necessary ones. For this reason, the solution to this problem that is being created, and was created by the PS and the PSD, and the one that would be the most coherent position on the part of the PSD — and tomorrow they will have this opportunity — was to vote in favour of the proposals for the cessation of the sectoral legal decrees, which the CFP will present. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u49	To close the debate, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that this debate becomes surreal in the perspective of the Left Block, since the Left Block has always been against everything, against all the proposals, in the whole debate there was nothing to vote favourably. That is that it is surrealism, that is to say, to be presented in the debate as if the others did not have legitimacy, when you, in your typical language, aggressive as ever, did not change anything or will change — there were saying that the PSD is surreal in this discussion. But the PCP is also nearby. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u51	In all the discussion we had about decentralization, there was nothing with which the CFP agreed throughout the process. Against everything, I have brought nothing constructive to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u52	I did, sir! You voted against the CFP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u53	But what matters here is the Socialist Party, which is the main party that supports this government. And it is important to ask you whether, indeed, you do not want to change your path, you do not want to change your course, because the course is wrong, that is, the one who was the PSD's commitment was fulfilled in the Framework Law, in the review of the Local Finance Law and in the understanding that we all had that there should be an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities and with ANAFRE, in the sense of these regulatory decrees meet what was originally established. It has not been fulfilled and we are now faced with a fully loaded situation: each of our authorships, from February onwards, is subject to different dates to be approved, in different municipal assemblies, the different areas of competence that are transferred to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u54	The gentlemen have agreed to all of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u55	What we are proposing is a correction in this area, i.e. correcting the trajectory so that this process of decentralization of competences for authorities takes place within normality. This is what the PSD essentially asks the Socialist Party and the Assembly of the Republic, because Portuguese and our authorship deserve much more than what is happening to them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u56	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate on draft resolution No 1885 / XIII / 4. the, so we will move to the next point of our agenda today, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos 843 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Housing Bases Act ( PS ), 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Bases Act and 1057 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Housing Base Law. To open the debate, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen : I rise today to this gallery with honor and joy. 12 years ago, 4432 citizens, including me, brought here a petition for urgent legislative intervention on the right to housing. That is why I use this t-shirt today, in honor of these 4000 citizens. We knew about many situations of shortage, organized the Platform Article 65, with poor neighborhoods and activists, and delivered our contribution to a basic housing law in the Assembly. It is up to me today, with the support of the Socialist Party, to bring here, finally, the first draft of the basic laws of housing presented in Portugal. I thank the Socialist Party, and its parliamentary group in particular, for the opportunity it has given me, as a Member, to be able to coordinate this work, which involved a broad participatory process, as I had occasion to remind you here for months. I was a constituent Member and was actively involved in the drafting and voting of Article 65. the Constitution. I remember my constancy, when paragraph 1 of this article, which proclaims the right to housing as the right of all and their families, was approved unanimously. There were intense times, with much division in Portuguese society, and also among parliamentary benches, but it was possible for constituents to do their best, and I hope so now in this Parliament. In the face of a subject that everyone considers essential, despite all our differences, I hope that we will all be able to make a law that improves people's lives. That is, after all, the most noble role of legislators. The other social rights enshrined in the Constitution — health, education and social security — have long had their basic laws. Only the housing seems to have been forgotten, assuming that the real estate market would solve the lack of half a million houses that were registered in 1974. in fact, we have more houses today than families, but we still have many families without a decent house, many houses closed and without any use and, above all, many houses available, but at prices that families cannot afford. With the liberalisation of incomes, tourism avalanche and the global financing of real estate, the scenario has worsened. New traumas have joined the old trauma, the freezing of income, creating distrust and discontent. We have just approved an important legislative package, which has sought a greater balance of interests and factors in the presence and I hope that, together with the new generation of housing policies, which the Government has launched in good time, we can see the fruits of the legislative work in which we all participate and that we see them quickly. But there is still a basic housing law that densifies Article 65. the Constitution, gives consistency to the various measures and programmes, clearly defines the rights and protections inherent to the right to housing and clarify the role of the State and the authorities in the effective guarantee of that right. We need to combat the inequalities that persist, territorial inequalities from now on — the country is not only Lisbon and Porto. We therefore include in the Socialist Party's bill the concept of habitat and the set of obligations of the state and the authorities to ensure that, even in the most remote village of the interior, the inhabitants can and should have access to transport and proximity equipment and housing, and everything can provide them with the quality of life they have right to. Generation inequalities also, beginning with the younger generation, the most qualified ever in Portugal, which is no longer the wall of colonial war and dictatorship, which my generation has faced, but the uncertainty of the future, the precarious work, the inability to find housing. Displaced students, young families, newly-constituted families, young adults — all are distressed by the lack of prospects for the future, here on their land, where they should have these prospects. The general inequalities also fall upon the elderly and the disabled, caught by surprise by a vertigo of the rental prices and the threat of evictions, at a time when we should guarantee them peace. Here too, we look forward to the PS and I hope that the legislative package we have approved will prove its effectiveness. But we still have great economic inequalities. It is enough to cross the evolution of the price of income and the sale of housing in Portugal with the evolution of income of people and families to realize that most of these people are at risk of being left behind on housing. And so the issue is urgent. For all these reasons, to which humanitarian reasons are added, which advise us to be a host country that, instead of building walls, builds bridges, Bill No. 843 / XIII, our draft basic law, is a relevant initiative. This project is just a starting point and, therefore, I welcome the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block on this matter and I invite the other banks to bring their contribution so that this legislative process can be enriched and improved. I hope so. This project of the Socialist Party was largely involved, before it was presented, as I told you — recently I said — in May, but it will be even more so if, as I hope and wish, we can collect the contribution of entities, movements and citizens — they will certainly be called to be heard during the legislative process that is now open — that they look at this Parliament with hope and hope. The draft basic law we present closely follows the structure of article 65. the Constitution, densityes the content of the right to housing and habitat, identifies the role of the different agents, from private entities to the social and cooperative sector and to the associations of residents, but it is, above all, in the role of public agents, the state, autonomous regions, municipalities and parish, that the project goes further, establishing principles, identifying instruments and measures that correspond to each level of public intervention. Particular emphasis is also given to the right to information and participation of citizens, as well as to the instruments of public intervention which must be used to promote the constitutional right to rent and own house. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are innovative in presenting a chapter on interventions that we consider as priority, since the situation of homeless people, which we should have been able to solve in the 21st century, to the difficulties of illegal or informal genesis neighborhoods, where thousands of families still live who have invested what they had, as well as their energies, in housing as often as without the conditions of hygiene, comfort and privacy that the Constitution prescribes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of work ahead, because there are constitutional rights which are not yet guaranteed to all. That is why, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I challenge you to try to make the best law of bases that we can be able, which also has some duration in time, so that our citizens, all those who are waiting to see their right to guaranteed housing, can be sure that, if they do not have it, there is a law that defends them, they can defend themselves and will certainly be heard by the public, legal and judicial bodies of this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u58	Mrs Helena Roseta, the Bureau registered, for requests for clarification, Mrs Roseta. Members Jorge Paulo Oliveira, PSD, Maria Manuel Rolla, BE, and João Gonçalves Pereira, CDS-PP. To that end, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Helena Roseta, for the PSD, it has always been obvious that the State must have a sound, structured, transparent public housing policy that is capable of ensuring that everyone is able, without exception, a decent housing. The question is who should stand for this public housing policy. For the PSD, there is no doubt: it is the State. It happens that in recent years the State has resigned from its role and has thrown this responsibility above the owners. That is exactly what the left-wing parliamentary majority has been promoting in the last three years, and that is exactly what, in part, this basic housing law, proposed by the Socialist Party, intends to introduce. The winter truce, i.e. the ban on evictions in the winter months — a practice instituted in France in the 1950s — is what, Mrs Deputy, but the transformation of landlords into social security extensions? Oh, my God! The right to a guaranteed renewal, once again, of certain leases, is what, Mrs. Helena Roseta, but to impose on lords to ensure compliance with the constitutional obligation of the State, in this particular case, with the right to housing? And, tell me, Madam Member, knowing that the State is the largest owner in Portugal, that it has thousands of devolved, abandoned or in advanced state of degradation, the alleged forced demand of private buildings is what but a sort of return to the past, at the times of gonçalvism and the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course)? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u60	To request clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helena Roseta, I should like to begin by thanking you for your proposal this afternoon and for the great and necessary contribution you have made to the discussion and advance of the issue of housing. The definition of a period of six years to attack the housing urgency fails precisely to this urgency, which he also described here. According to the Government, only in 2024 will all the needs identified in 2017 have been met. Question: How many will there be at that time, Mrs. Member? If we add the brutal increase in income prices and the lack of public housing measures that intervene in the market, the answer is one: there will be much more needs unless the governments invest in housing. The question that arises in this basic law that he presented is whether the Socialist Party believes that the public investment to be made must be substantially and structurally greater. The proposal of 5 % of public investment in this area, when European countries are 20 % and 30 %, remains extremely vulnerable and does not guarantee the necessary response, which removes those who live out of their market fluctuations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u62	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Architeta Helena Roseta said that today is a moment of joy, because it is under discussion in this House, the basic law of housing. The fact is that this moment of joy has not been accompanied by the government, which is absent from this debate, thus showing total disinterest. I have to tell you, Madam Commissioner, that I recognize the commitment you have had in this matter, and we agree in many cases. I give you an example: we agree that the 2 % investment in public housing in Portugal is insufficient, because we believe that for years on end, because of frozen incomes, it is up to the gentlemen to do the social action which, in many cases, leads to the State itself. The honourable Member, even two months ago, said that, and I will quote her, « housing is the poor relative of the public policies of this government ». Nothing better than the test of the nine, analyzing the Budget: in terms of investment and expenditure, 6 % went to education, 12, 5 % went to social security, 7, 4 % went to health and 0, 2 % went to housing. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we fully understand your joy today, but we are sure that the year 2019 will be sad again in terms of housing in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u64	In reply, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u65	Mr. President, first of all I reply to my friend Jorge Paulo Oliveira. Mr President, you recalled questions you had already mentioned in the last debate we had on this subject. The winter truce was not invented in France, moreover, it actually began in France, but it was a principle accepted by the Council of Europe itself in the recommendations annexed to the Convention on Social and European Rights. I think that you will know that and it would be reasonable for us, at least in times of colder weather, to have this truce in the clearing. The honourable Member also raised the question of why the State does not put any returnees into use. This is one of the points we put on this initiative, although there is already the National Building Rehabilitation Fund ( FNRE ) which has the same objective. There will certainly be thousands of state returned buildings — and therefore these measures are already in progress — but, Mr President, in the last census, there were 750 000 returned private houses. In the face of this, the thousands of state buildings are very few. We have to do something about these houses. The gentlemen. Members have been very involved in the history of the request, which is still paid, is not confiscated. I don't have any problem if you find better solutions. That is a constitutional solution, but we can find others. We must encourage the use of a huge amount of housing property that exists in Portugal, empty and closed, even in the city of Lisbon, belonging to international private real estate funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u66	What about the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u67	The state also has!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u68	Is that a Lisbon Chamber?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u69	The Lisbon Chamber has some, but not as much as you say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u70	Is that a Santa House?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u71	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I would like to thank you for your words and tell you that public investment, of course, will have to be greater, a matter also mentioned by Mr João Gonçalves Pereira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of our positions, numbers are the numbers. Public investment in housing for 2019 is still little, but with the previous government it was still smaller and it did not exist. We are from zero and, from zero, all comparisons can be considered very or little. I think it's little, but it's not done in one day, because in order to give more public investment to housing, we have to withdraw from other sectors, which has to be done with balance. That is why I made a call, so that everyone's intervention might be here. Our ideas may not be the best — it was a set of ideas that the Socialist Party subscribed and presented — but are open. Bring the best ideas, bring up the best ideas, and we will certainly have a basic housing law that this country deserves and that our people need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u72	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to a decent home is far from being guaranteed to all. There are still numerous housing shortages resulting from the political options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, of de-investment and total de-responsibility of the State in the promotion of public housing, leaving to the economic, financial and speculative groups the intervention on housing, which has already shown to be not part of the solution but of the problem. The families were pushed into debt. From 1987 to 2011, 73, 7 % of public resources were for credit interest subsidies for housing acquisition, leading to 75 % of Portuguese own housing, the second highest rate in Europe. The capitalist system created a reality that no one can understand: there are families that do not have access to a home or many of the dwellings do not meet conditional conditions and, at the same time, there are about 750 000 fires returned. In addition, about 26 000 families reside in precarious housing, a number which is likely to be lower than reality. The costs with housing are excessively high, taking into account the low incomes taken from the generality of working families. in the lease, there is a huge deprotection of tenants, due to the liberalization of income values, the introduction of mechanisms for facilitating and simplifying waste and, more recently, the allocation of buildings for temporary occupation. Income increases for prohibitive values and housing supply decreases. Consequently, residents, particularly workers, are expelled from the centre to the peripheries in an elitist process, and only families with very high incomes are able to live in the center of cities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As housing is an essential asset for the satisfaction of a basic need of human beings and fundamental for the stability of the life of families, it is not the profit of its production and sale that must prevail, but its destination, that is, its use by those who need a house. But in order for housing to fulfil its social function and to be mobilized to respond to the identified needs, it is necessary to break with the current system and adopt a housing policy in which the State has a decisive role in soil policy, building, urban regeneration and renting, in short, a role of planning, regulation and supervision and, at the same time, in promoting and making public housing available. State intervention is the guarantor of constitutional right to housing. This is the cross-sectional matrix to the draft basic housing law proposed by the PCP. The guidelines of the housing law that we bring to debate are: the definition of the determining role of the State in the promotion of housing, with adequate means and resources; the mobilization of public housing property for lease, supported or conditioned income regimes; the assumption of a land policy that opposes real estate speculation; the creation of instruments that enable unwarrantedly returned housing to be used for lease; and the accountability of the central administration by the direction and management of housing policies. We prioritized the mobilisation of the public built heritage for residential rental programs and we considered that the returned property, whether public or private, should be placed at the service of the common interest and respond to existing housing shortages, and the State was responsible for creating the operational programmes and instruments for public promotion of urbanized soil, urban rehabilitation and rehabilitation areas and for building only to the extent necessary to meet housing deficiencies. in the context of the territorial management instruments, we propose that minimum percentages be established for exclusive use as permanent housing, which are certain rental quotas directed to families with lower incomes, that the right of preference by public entities be exercised by the property tax value of the building and that the soil policy has as strategic objective to give use and public management to the most valuables arising from interventions on land use processing and density plans. The priority is to defend the residence of the family. Therefore, we propose that there be no clearance without ensuring accommodation, the impermenability of the house of first residence and the extinction of the loan for the purchase of permanent housing with the delivery of the fraction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u74	Madam Member, I ask you to interrupt for 1 minute, because there is a very insistent noise in the room. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing out of the Chamber, if you want to talk. Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. The right to housing implies the right to habitat and place, which requires the articulation with policies of employment, health, education, transport, accessibility, social intervention, culture and environment. This also requires proper spatial planning and urban development, as well as access to public services, equipment and basic infrastructure. The participation of residents and their representative structures in the definition of housing policies and programmes, the creation of cooperatives and the promotion of self-construction and self-construction processes are valued in our proposal. As for the other initiatives, we wanted to say the following: on the proposal from the Left Block, we follow what goes against our proposals ; on the proposal from the Socialist Party, we find that there are a number of positive aspects, but we must not fail to point out that the State continues to play a subsidiary role. in this proposal there is not only identification of the causes, interests and those responsible for the difficulties in access to housing, as it also relies on the transfer of charges to the authorities and subsequent deresponsibility of the state, and insists on options that benefit the economic and financial groups that speculate with housing, through tax exemptions and benefits, when it is known that it is not diverting public resources to private housing programs that solve the housing problems of families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question that arises today in this debate is whether the current state of affairs is maintained or whether this opportunity is being used to break the current situation and ensure a housing policy in which the State assumes its constitutional responsibility. from the PCP there is full availability to deepen and continue this debate in the field of specialty, but having in mind, and as a central element, the following: to ensure the right to housing, to implement Article 65. that of our Constitution and give priority to the determining role of the State in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u76	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings to the debate a draft basic law for comprehensive and structural housing, which defines the central role of the State as the provider of the right to housing, through the creation of a national housing service that courageously increases the housing of public property and guarantees that we have lived cities, built maintained and people with insured homes. This responsibility must be made clear in this basic law: it is the State that protects people from the 'winds and storms' of real estate markets. It is on the basis of this protection that no one accepts a fully deprived model of access to health or only private schools for their children; that is also why we should ensure similar response in the housing, where today is the «save who can». To transform this is to increase decisively to almost non-existent public response.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u79	We also say that the model of action of any government must be preventive: to anticipate and penalize the abandonment of the building, to correct the situations and conditions leading to housing precariousness and to eradicate and prevent situations leading to the condition of eviction or homeless. We also propose prevention and follow-up to the implementation of the timely action, ensuring that the State is with citizens in the pursuit of the realization of the right to housing. No one should have to witness the demolition of his home or a forced entry of the police into his home. The proposal from the Left Block also provides for a modification of the soil policy which guarantees a collective organisation that favours social equity; it must also ensure compatibility with the different uses of the soil and response to the threat of climate change. The planning of the territory and operations should be subject to public interest and enhance the use of existing infrastructures, avoiding urban development in oil stains which hinders the implementation of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u81	Finally, the Left Block proposal wants to ensure the application of public housing quotas in urban operations, as is already done for other situations, and also to subject public interest to added value, putting obstacles to the creation of financialised and highly fictitious values. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, discussing a structural policy for housing, postponed by successive governments, is recognizing the serious housing problems that have been accumulated for decades. For this reason, the ties of the context in which we live and of the oscillation of the market cannot have centrality in this discussion, because here we are not responsible for responding to the instability of the market that clears out who needs to be. This discussion is to respond to the trauma of not having anywhere to live in dignified conditions. And because — strengthening — we do not discuss here today the right to property but precisely the right to housing and to the city as a collective right, we must recognise and address in this discussion the problems of both the abandonment of cities, in the past, and of hyperspeculation, in the present, and recognize the damage that both attitudes cause to the housing security of those who live in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u83	in this, we are clear that the radicalization of the defense of the right to property, closing the eyes to all the problems that it socially brings, has allowed the insensity in which the right falls, by defending the existence of abandoned houses whose only purpose is to favor speculation once again. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This is a vicious circle and therefore it takes courage to do more than fight and give again. The left can thus only act in the reversal of the current logic and inscribe justice measures that recognize the right to housing as of public interest and which, in this way, prevent what has already happened and respond to what can be done, in cities, on the outskirts or in the interior. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our proposal sees housing in its social function, that is, a space to be inhabited, and defines the mechanisms obviously contrary to this realization: speculation, abandonment of the building, landfill and concentration of property or the allocation of rights by simply buying real estate. These uses clearly prejudice the right to housing and will thus be penalized, because housing is a guarantee of several other rights—from the outset to health and education, but also to employment and mobility—and because, if we do not guarantee this right, we are neglecting all public policy. It is therefore at the time of the necessary structural change that recognises the central role of housing in people's lives. The Left Block will be present. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u84	Since the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A basic law for the housing sector can only make sense if it is a framework law, preceded by study and evaluation of existing instruments, which meets the desires of the population, which does not comply with any fundamental principle or constitutional guarantee and which respects either the right to a decent housing or the right to private property.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u87	however, it was not its absence that prevented that, until now, if they made reforms in the housing sector, it is no less true that it is also not the creation of a basic law that guarantees that the reforms in this fundamental sector will be realized and will not pass by dead letter. What effectively solves housing problems are realistic and concrete measures and not preconceived measures, as has happened in these three years of governance, and that nothing has resolved in this area. But if it is to continue with housing policies guided by purely ideological principles, then surely we do not need a basic law of housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we live in a country where only 2 % of access to housing is the responsibility of the State, while the remaining 98% are insured by the private sector, a situation which for the Left Block is completely unsustainable because it considers that the State is responsible for the construction of a public housing park capable of meeting the existing needs. It is therefore not surprising that, in three years of government and four approved State budgets, nothing has been done to reverse this reality, because what they did was precisely the opposite, when practically extinguished the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation (IHRU). The PSD, as a reformist party that is, has always shown a great concern about ensuring access to housing and therefore, a few days ago in this Parliament we presented 10 bills with concrete, fair and balanced measures on this subject, which have been plunged, in most cases, by this left-wing coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u88	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u89	For the PSD, the rules to be applied to the lease market should be balanced and stable, not forgetting the landlords, who have applied their savings in the housing sector as a form of income and who sometimes live in a situation of serious economic shortage but also create solutions that accompany the tenants in a fair and correct way and support them in situations of serious fragility. in the legislative proposals presented today, the PCP and the Left Block call for the resurrection of the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course), proposing the expropriation of private homes, unwarrantedly returned. This is a discretionary concept, where everything, wherever it may be desired, concealing the real motives that lead the owners to see themselves forced to keep these dwellings returned, by vicissitudes of life, subjecting them to penalties and further aggravation of taxes. It also proposes that the PS, in this context, integrate in a national housing fund private returning property which has been the target of the so-called "temporary requirement" to address housing deficiencies. This, when we have abandoned public heritage that, if it was recovered, could deal with these shortcomings, thus fulfilling the State with an obligation that is only its own, to ensure the right to housing for its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem of access to a decent housing lies not only at the level of families seriously deprived but also at the level of the middle class and youth. It is a problem caused by the lack of income, resulting from the lack of employment or from the increase in precarious work which, after all, as recently published data demonstrate, the left has not been able to fight, as so much as it claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u90	What about the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u91	Housing policies should include real measures to combat desertification of the interior as well as to deal with disaster situations. An example of this are the homes destroyed by the fires of 2017, in which about half continues to rebuild, and here, yes, the state must take on its commitments and urgently fulfil its responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u93	in the law of basic housing, presented by the PS, there is much talk about decentralization of competences for local authorities. But as the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) states, there can be no decentralisation without concrete financing compatible with these obligations. It cannot be pushed to the municipalities responsibilities, without a prior assessment of existing instruments and without such responsibilities being accompanied by realistic and appropriate financial means for their implementation, thus continuing decentralization in the area of housing, as in other areas, to take a step, without « seeing the light at the bottom of the tunnel ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u94	What about the PSD proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u95	The Government and the PS are in this matter as a drifting boat, with ties to the Left Block and the PCP, sailing slowly in cloudy and dangerous waters so that the boat does not get to the desired port, but, at the end of this trip, who will end up stranded will unfortunately be the Portuguese and the Country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u96	Not registering the Bureau for requests for clarification, I give the floor, for an intervention, to Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parties that are responsible for the initiatives we are discussing today say that the theme of housing is a priority and that it is essential to adopt a basic law for housing. Now, being a priority, I wonder why, only in the final line of the current Parliament, they present and lead to discussion these diplomas. If it is a priority, why, before casuistic changes that have been made throughout the legislature, have not presented draft laws to create a basic housing law? If it is a priority for the Government and the Socialist Party, why have they been so reluctant to mark this debate? Is it because— and I will use, if I may, the words of Mrs Helena Roseta, quoting - with great pleasure - "may I have failed to give priority to the issues of housing on the part of the PS?"
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u98	We can't agree anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u99	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Political priorities are not seen in speeches of circumstance to win votes, but empty of content or of the same substance and that at no time improve people's lives. Political priorities are seen in initiatives and reforms that, with courage, if they want to implement to solve ever-ending problems, resolve what has been systematically postponed and have led to the degradation of people's lives. We have already said this, and we will not fail to reiterate: do not rely on the CDS to pass legislation which, on the assumption of fulfilling the constitutional right to housing, also violates other constitutionally consecrated rights. They do not ask us for agreement to, in a function that is of the State and which is the State's responsibility, be called again the private ones for everything to resolve with regard to housing. We will never agree with any mechanisms to request private homes, when the State is one of the country's largest owners, when the State invests little or nothing in creating greater offer for housing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Yes, it is true that in Portugal there is only 2 % of public housing supply, that the only programme of lease subsidies currently operating is Porta 65. Yes, the aim should be to increase public supply, or with public support, but this cannot be done again at the expense of the owners. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing is a priority for the CDS and we have come to prove the legislative session after the legislative session, with concrete proposals that aim to change and improve the supply of housing and with social concerns. This was seen in the protection of the elderly and those with disabilities and those with the greatest disabilities at the time of the reform of the lease regime in 2012, and was seen with the approval by the former Government of the income allowance for those who, after the end of the transitional period for the update of the income, did not have sufficient economic means to satisfy the new value to be paid. On the other hand, because we believe that it is necessary to increase the public housing supply, we have been asking for an exhaustive assessment of the state real estate, which, yes, must be put at the service of the constitutionally consecrated right of all to be entitled to a decent housing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is not ethical, it is not moral the State to require private homes and the State itself does not heal of its own heritage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not with restrictions, confiscations and freezings that we will get all Portuguese to have a decent home. Only with a market operating with greater supply and with better conditions is that this same constitutional design can be achieved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the Green Party also shares this need to have a basic housing law which, in essence, sets out principles and also some mechanisms for the realization of what is set out in Article 65. the Constitution. We had already said it here, in this same Chamber, 10 years ago, in 2008, during the discussion of Petition No. 399 / X / 3. the, whose result and content I would also like to highlight here, because I think it was driving the Assembly of the Republic. in this sense, I would like to say that, read the three bills under discussion, The Greens will vote favourably all of them. I believe that the conditions are created to open a good debate, in the field of expertise, so that this basic law can be implemented. Now, what is fundamental is that a basic law takes into account reality, so that we can think how it can contribute and what dimension to change what we consider negative in that same reality. The truth is that we all know that for many and many years, even decades, what has been done was to build, build, install concrete, install concrete. But even with so many homes, families were all entitled to secure housing. What we know and find, in all interventions, is that there are many families that do not have housing and therefore, with so much housing and according to the law of supply and demand, the prices of houses have fallen to a level that people and families can bear, because this continues in the streets of bitterness, in a true wild as regards housing prices. in fact, what was actually installed? Real estate speculation 'wrong and law' and, as has already been mentioned in various interventions, the shame we witnessed, in terms of the latest censuses, about 750 000 fires returned, empty. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with so many people in need of housing, what solutions can be found for this reality to change? On the other hand, we have the rental market with absolutely exorbitant, catastrophic prices to which people cannot have access. So, considering these prices, whoever gets, makes another option, because he thinks he eventually benefits more if he can buy home. He then uses the use of credit and is indebted to the whole life. We all know what housing weighs on the budget of each family and at what cost, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. For this reason, they look for houses outside the city centers, more for the suburbs, because prices end up being a little more bearable. On the other hand, the well-known and famous "dispatch law" of 2012, the legal regime of urban renting, the responsibility of the PSD / CDS government, led many people to leave the city centers as well, without home. There has been an average of five evictions per day, which is a perfectly scary thing. It is therefore also important to take into account the effects of the laws that are taking place. In conclusion, the city centers continue to be deserts of inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u102	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u103	I should like to conclude by saying that after that there are no transports, there are no services and the housing centres become real dormitories. But this is not what the right to housing means. We also recognize that 2 % of public housing is very scarce and that this number must actually increase to be made available to the person who needs housing, to guarantee constitutionally consecrated law. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u104	The Bureau shall no longer register any requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] In the meantime Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, to whom I give the floor, wrote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After three years of stagnations, measures and measures, the results of the government and the left-wing parliamentary majority that the government supports are supporters in the area of housing: prices did not fall, the offer did not increase, the public housing park did not improve. Over the past three years, we have seen a true ideological and prejudiced cyclone on the left over private property. We soon realized that it would be through the limitation of property rights that the left proposed to solve the problem of housing. Not satisfied with bouncing the owners with taxes and exercising bullying on all those who had the unfortunate idea of putting their savings in houses to rent, the left also decided to place the owners to take social and state action. It is interesting to note that many of these measures were implemented in several countries and the result was always the same: reduction in the number of houses for rent, increase in income and deterioration of buildings. But the left insists. He insists, because the proposals are always right on the paper, with very little interest that they are the weakest to suffer the perverse effects of them. He insists that these perverse effects are not always discernible when these proposals are set out. And he insists, because the short-term beneficiaries of the proposals are an identified electorate, where the left wants to capitalize electorally.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u106	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The left has not solved any of the country's housing problems, nor will it solve them, as it is achieved by the inevitable procession of the troupe which it intends to pursue, some of them of doubtful constitutionality. But that's not why the PCP and the Left Block are no longer happy. Yes, congratulations, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. in fact, with the precious help of the Socialist Party, they will finally achieve what they have always defended: the liquidation of the private initiative in the lease market in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u108	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you just for a moment that the Bureau is receiving registrations. [[Pause.]] The Bureau has to organize the interventions, taking into account the various initiatives that have been presented. Since the CDS-PP does not wish to use the time it still has, it has the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right does not clearly want to recognise the problem that represents its position in a debate on the right to housing and the city. He insists on keeping the built-up returned and child abandoned. It will, of course and by its own will, keep the « rope in the throat» to, in 2018 alone, 45 000 families who have entered into a situation of non-compliance in loans for the purchase of the house. I ask Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira: who are the weakest here? Families or banks? Correcting these mistakes is something the right one doesn't want. It remains to be known which side of this responsibility will be the Socialist Party, if on the side of the banks, if on the side of the families, and on which side of the barricade will be placed in the definition of this proposal for a basic housing law, which we will continue to discuss and work in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u110	For an intervention you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate I would also like to point out that in the speeches we have heard from both the PSD and the CDS there are some aspects that need to be stressed. A first aspect is to try to eliminate their responsibilities in the difficulties that Portuguese today have in access to housing. The PSD Member came here, including, to talk about reducing income. Question : In which government was the court in wages and social benefits? It was in the PSD government / CDS. They would talk about precariousness, lack of employment, all that they were responsible for as long as they were ruling and that deteriorated, and in a lot, the situation of the lives of families and many Portuguese workers. And if there were families in which the loss of their dwelling was avoided, this was due to the intervention of the PCP, with the approval in the Assembly of the Republic, of an initiative on the impermissibility of the first dwelling in the case of tax executions, which was prevented from having about 20 families lost their dwellings. If you had been with the gentlemen, these families would have lost their homes. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, you come here to talk about housing, you say that it is a priority and that you have always been concerned about the right to housing, but the result of your policies was the eviction of thousands and thousands of families in our country, who have lost that right and have become in a dramatic situation. So don't come and talk about the right to housing now! As far as this is concerned, I believe that we are talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters now and in the discussion of the basic housing law is to break up with these options that have already shown that they are no solution. Mr. CDS said the market is going to solve the problem. The problem is being solved by the market: they are high prices, they are families that do not have housing, it is the rent that does not exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u112	You want the gentlemen to solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u113	What is decisive at this time and which makes the difference is the proposal of the CFP, when it places the determining role of the State in promoting and making public housing available. But more than that, the decisive role of the State in defining soil policy and in combating speculation, the crucial role of the State in finding concrete solutions and proposals so that all families can be entitled to a place, address, a place where they consider it more appropriate, taking into account their incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u114	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why we are going to fight this debate in the Assembly of the Republic : for Article 65. that of the Constitution, the right to housing, that is, once for all, realized for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u116	To close this debate, Mr João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave two points, which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to underline at the end of this debate. A first point is to note that on the day when Parliament first discussed the basic housing law, PSD and CDS have no appearance: they do not present any project in this area, although they claim that housing is a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the time of the previous government, housing was « cleared » from the political agenda of PSD and CDS. And now, in the opposition, housing continues to be « homeless » in the priorities of PSD and CDS, on the right of parliament. A second point is to say that the Socialist Party's bill is an open basis for dialogue with all parties. We want to discuss it, in the specialty, with all the openness and maximum participation. We understand that no party should stay out of this legislative process. For us, to comply with the basic law that guarantees all effective access to a decent home is to fulfill April, and the PS will continue to meet its responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u118	The joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 843 / XIII / 3 is closed. a ( PS ), 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 1057 / XIII / 4. a ( BE). We moved on to the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos. 895 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recognizes and regulates the profession of criminologist(s) and 1054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the scheme for the professional exercise of criminologists. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Criminologists are highly specialized professionals, with competencies that cross various areas, such as law, sociology, psychology and forensic sciences. They are empowered to carry out criminological analysis, criminal mediation, risk assessment, expertise to defendants and victims, for the development and planning of policies to combat crime and for the design and implementation of prevention and intervention programmes, among many other activities and competences. Criminologists could and should be used by courts and mediation offices, prisons and social reintegration services, educational and victim assistance centres, criminal police and technical-scientific police laboratories, information and inspection services, and in so many areas of activity. currently, in Portugal, there are degrees in Criminology, taught in five higher education institutions. The oldest date of 2006 is 12 years. In the meantime, courses were opened leading to the degree of master's degree and doctorate. All these teaching cycles were recognized and certified by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education. however, the criminologist profession continues to be recognized and regulated. Because of this, these professionals, with interdisciplinary scientific knowledge and highly specialized, are furnished by public competitions, although their competences are, in many cases, the most appropriate to the recruitment profile. These professionals are highly qualified to exercise criminal mediation, but are required to attend a training course, when their curriculum already enables them, in full, to do so. To register in the employment centre, as there is no vocational code corresponding to their academic training, they must register under any other training area. If they are self-employed and wish to perform, for example, functions as experts — which is, in fact, provided for and recognised in the Code of Criminal Procedure — they must also declare another activity, because they do not have a corresponding economic activity code. Adding to these absurdities is the fact that all this has been, and well recognized by all parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic, which unanimously adopted a resolution recommending to the Government the recognition and regularization of the criminologist profession within 60 days. But in spite of this unanimity, the fact is that, since 2015, many 60 days have passed and neither the previous government nor the previous government have done anything to solve the problem, devalue it, too, the will and decision, unanimously and democratically expressed in this House. The project that the Block of the Left here brings precisely aims to overcome this paradox and this inertia and solve, once and for all, the situation, recognizing and regulating the profession of criminologist, resting justice and granting the dignity due to the exercise of the profession of criminologist. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u120	Mr Vania Dias da Silva now gives the floor to present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a chronic lack of social reintegration technicians. There is one technician per 100 or up to 200 convicted of crimes, when the recommendation is a technician for each group of 50 convicted of crimes. There is a chronic lack of inspectors and judicial police officers, with a poor picture, reduced to almost half, with losses known by all in criminal investigation. There is a chronic lack of SEF agents ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), with arms with processes impossible to dispatch and with endless rows that wear both users and professionals. These are serious problems that the CDS has not been tired of pointing out and for which it has presented various initiatives, in order to resolve them. But in addition to this problem, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another one that has to do with the exclusion of criminology graduates in these areas, from areas where they can and should act and where, as you can see, they are absolutely essential and necessary. This is where the CDS intends to intervene, defining the legal regime to which the criminologist function should be performed. And you do so because of an absolutely imperative need to counter a situation — which has been explained recently by Mrs Cunha and which is loaded — in which the State has placed itself and of which it insists not to leave: that of a State which believes and recognizes a new academic area, but which, despite this, does not recognize any professional qualification to that academic area which it has recognized and which, therefore, serves very little. That is why this situation needs to be resolved quickly. This is a situation that has been dragging itself for several years now—it is not from now, it comes from behind—but which could and should have been resolved at least in July 2015. In fact, in July 2015, a recommendation to the Government to regulate the criminologist profession was unanimously adopted in this Chamber, at which time 60 days were given for this purpose. In the meantime, the former government has ceased to function, a new government has entered into office and, after three and a half years on this date, nothing, absolutely nothing has been done. It is true that, even yesterday, perhaps because of the effect of these two projects—at least, they already had this blessing— a contest was opened for social reintegration technicians, in which, for the first time in history, the degree in Criminology is mentioned. But this isn't enough to solve the problem. The CDS therefore urges this House to adopt this legal regime, so that the Government can finally regulate the profession and integrate the criminologists into the areas in which they are essential. This is what we hope not only to be of justice but above all to be an important necessity for the areas of criminal investigation, social reintegration, social and community intervention, among many other transversal areas to which the criminologist profession can apply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u123	All these areas are vital and we have qualified technicians in the role to act on them, but we have come to prevent them from exercising their profession for absolute inertia and absolute disinterest of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u124	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u125	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this is what we intend to oppose, so we urge this majority to pass this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u126	To date, no application for registration has been made by the Bureau. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who wish to do so for the debate. [[Pause.]] Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party follows the legislative initiatives under discussion — firstly, of BE, which recognises and regulates the profession of criminologist and secondly, of the CDS-PP, which approves the regime of the professional exercise of the criminologists — with different solutions which, of course, will serve as the basis for a discussion in the speciality. We follow these two initiatives for two important reasons. The first, and most important of all, is that the course of criminologist was proposed and created by the State, it was not an invention of someone, it is recognized by the State, so it makes no sense that the profession is not recognized. By order of successive governments, criminology degrees were created in several institutions of higher education. In this way, legitimate expectations were created for the exercise of a profession for those attending the course. However, this expectation cannot be frustrated by the State itself which, in many public competitions, does not recognize these professionals. That is the main reason for regulating this profession. It is important to say that the first course of Criminology dates back to 2009. Today, according to the data we have, there are about five approved courses to be taught, teachers and doctors in progress and already carried out on the same subject. Despite all this dimension of the university plan, there are still obstacles, as I said, to the recognition of the profession within the State itself. Therefore, it is not acceptable for us that the State or other entities do not recognise this profession, nor do they allow professionals, graduates, access to the profession. I want here to highlight the relevant role of the Portuguese Association of Criminology — indeed present in the galleries — not only in the concrete denunciation of the situations that its associates have been living, but also in the presentation of a basic proposal that will also be taken into account in the discussion, in the specialty, because it is indeed an important contribution to it. The second reason why we also follow this legislative initiative is that, indeed, the Assembly of the Republic has already spoken on this matter—and there has already been public debate—has adopted in July 2015 a resolution recommending to the Government the urgent regulation and recognition of the profession, within a period of 60 days, except error, and the inclusion of the criminologist profession in the national classification of professions. It is true that, until now, none of this has been achieved, and it is therefore urgent to take action. If the Government has not taken steps to solve the problem, we believe that it is time for the Assembly of the Republic to resolve it and respond positively to professionals, criminology graduates, so that they can see their profession recognized within the National Classification of Professions. [[PCP and public applause from the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u128	Although it has not been very audible, I do not fail to remind the public present in the galleries that cannot manifest itself in any way. Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the Left Block aims to recognize and regulate the criminologist profession, seeking to constitute a regulation for the professional exercise of this profession. The draft law of the CDS is a simple declaration of intent for the creation of a legal regime for the exercise of the functions of a criminologist. It should be remembered that the professional exercise in Portugal is free, in accordance with the constitutional principle of freedom of choice of the profession. Certain requirements are required only for access to regulated and regulated professions. Regulated professions are those whose verification of compliance with professional requirements is attributed to a professional public association and the regulated profession is the one whose access and exercise depends on a set of certain professional requirements which are laid down by law. in situations of regulated or regulated professions, the recognition of qualifications is subject to compliance with specific legal standards, specifically laid down by Law No 9 / 2009 of 4 March 2009 transposing to the internal legal order referred to as the Qualifications Directive, Directive 2005 / 36 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September. It is this legal framework which regulates professional recognition for the exercise of a certain regulated professional activity and which consists of authorisation by a competent authority. Now, it does not seem to us that this is the interest of criminologists who are already freely engaged in their activities. It is that, although it is not a regulated or regulated profession today, criminologists exercise with complete freedom this professional activity, either in the public sector or in the private sector. Different things are the recognition of this profession to have access to certain public contests, private security activities, criminal mediation and expertise, as well as its recognition by the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), subjects that are already subject to specific regulations. We are, first, within the framework of an ability to carry out certain activities, matters which do not fall within the scope of a professional exercise regulation. This is the problem of the bills presented by the CDS and the Block of Left, i.e., confuse professional regulation with professional qualification. Instead of regulating the profession, they want to enable criminologists to perform certain activities, activities that are already subject to specific regulations, where important public interests, including security and defense of the rule of law, are articulated, and where several professionals already act. in this framework, the PS considers that the criminologist profession should be regulated, but these regulations should be made within the existing legal framework, taking into account the various interests in the presence, especially public interests, and may not be only an enabling instrument for the exercise of certain activities already regulated. It is in this framework that, understanding the interests of the criminologists, the PS cannot agree to these bills presented by the Block and by the CDS-PP, but is available to work together, in order to find a legal framework that defends the interest of this important profession, either within the framework of professional interests, or within the framework of the public interests concerned here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group accompanies today's debate, either by the BE Parliamentary Group or by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, on the regulation and recognition of the criminologist profession. In fact, he did so at the beginning when, in June 2015, accompanied by the CDS and the Block of the Left, he presented in the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution which, together with the initiatives of the CDS and BE, gave rise to a replacement text which, as has already been mentioned here, came to be unanimously approved in July 2015, and in which it was recommended to the Government to recognize the profession of criminologist within the limit of 60 days and if it included this profession in the National Classification of Professions. I also use it to greet the Portuguese Association of Criminology because these same motions and sensitizations resulted from a work sent by this Association through a petition, also discussed at the headquarters of the Assembly of the Republic. Now, the PSD in this legislature had already had the opportunity to remind the Government of this issue and in 2017 asked him why this recommendation had not yet been received and the criminologist profession was not yet properly recognized and regulated — that is, if the government is distracted — but, as you know, we have not achieved any progress in this regard. With regard to this aspect, and although this is not important to the criminologists, I must say to Mrs. Member of the Left Block that the previous Government, at the end of the previous Parliament, did not realize this recognition, that this Government which it supports did not do so either and we are already at the end of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u133	So we should not always do the game of « we are in government or we are not in government » here. Mr President, there is another issue which is important here to recognize. The PSD will enable these proposals, recognizing that, in the field of specialty, they can be adjusted and should be adjusted. Why? Because the question of professions is far greater than only this which has been discussed here today. In fact, I must leave it to the House here that I do not really understand the position of the Socialist Party on this matter and I have doubts that it has responded to what the concerns of the criminologists are. There are more than 5,000 criminology graduates in Portugal who need and ask for the recognition and regulation of the profession. Mr Deputie, I would like to remind you of Decree-Law No 37/2015 of 10 March 2015, which has to do with the exercise of the profession and which, as regards access to the profession, recognises the question of legal capacity, academic qualifications and professional qualifications, but establishes that the monitoring of the access and exercise schemes of professions and activities must be carried out by the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations (DGERT ), with the National Agency for Qualification and Vocational Education ( ANQEP) and the Directorate-General for Higher Education ( DGES ). What happens — and you should know that, since you have spoken so much about the need for self-regulation — is that the state is failing in a gross way, the government is failing in a gross way and, with it, the whole state, but it was the government who could follow this up. This is the result of this Decree-Law, approved at the end of the previous legislature. It is that this is a dynamic world and, if these criminologists are being harmed in what is their transition to the labour market, we must not fail to recognize that the question of professions and the labour market is constantly changing. But it should not have to be the Assembly of the Republic to replace the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u135	And this is not because of any party issue, it is because the assessment of the data relating to the situation of overlap of various professions, up to at various times of society, does not help anyone and will only harm professionals, or the society that professionals serve. So we are here and we will make these diplomas available, but we believe that it should not be the Assembly of the Republic to have this role. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u136	To close the debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is an absurd situation, as has already been said, the State recognises and certifies the training of these professionals and then fails to recognize the profession, forcing these highly qualified and specialized professionals — at this time, already more than 5000 — to a state of professional limbo and uncertainty, limiting them in their professional development. This doesn't make any sense, nor does it have any justification! throughout this legislation, the Left Block addressed to the Ministries of Justice, Internal Administration and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security several questions on this subject, having not been seen in the answers received anything that could prevent due and fair recognition and regulation of this profession. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, these professionals do not exercise their profession with complete freedom, because they are effectively limited in the exercise of these professions and functions, as I have already mentioned in my first intervention. As has already been said here, this need has already been unanimously recognised by this House. at the time, the PS voted in favour of the text replacing the various draft resolutions submitted, which was approved unanimously and resulted in a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic to be recognized and regulated the profession of criminologist. So it is only understood that it was the inertia that maintained this state of things. Mrs. Members of the PS and PSD, we hoped that the government would do what it was up to, but, as it did not, we did. The PS is still waiting for the government. The PSD presented no initiative! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] So here we are presenting an initiative to comply with what this House has already decided and to guarantee justice to criminologists. Finally, I take advantage of the Portuguese Association of Criminology, the criminologists and the criminalists, the students and the students of criminology who are present here in the galleries, to welcome their struggle and to reaffirm the conviction that it is in the interests of all — and not only of these professionals, but also of the country — that we hope that the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, adopted unanimously in 2015, will finally be realized by the approval of the bill of the Left Block, finally bringing justice due to these professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u138	We now move on to the debate, in general, of Bill No. 959 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishs impediments in the decision on processes of institutionalization of children and young people at risk. To present the legislative initiative, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest data from the 2017 CASA report are on the reality of 10,410 children and young people in institutionalization. of the 7553 who are still in a welcoming position, 246 are in family care and more than 6500 in residential homes, be children's and youth homes, temporary shelters or other responses. Before 2017, 5553 of these children and young people were already in this situation, indicating that this is a situation that has been dragging over the years. Only 384 children and young people — only 4 %! — started and ceased their reception situation in 2017, which means that there is much to do about the temporary nature of the reception. The CFP has already stated on this subject that the institutionalization of children and young people at risk is a complex problem that deserves careful attention. It must always be the last answer to implement when all other answers have run out. The first response should be intervention with the families of origin, giving priority to measures allowing the child or the young person to remain in his or her family aggregate or in the context of an extended family, which implies a rigorous assessment of this possibility and the elimination, where possible, of the risks that may exist for the child in this same context. We recognize, of course, that there are situations in which the answer may go through family and residential reception, which must even be the last resort, and these situations cannot continue over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u141	We defend that the protection and follow-up of these children and young people, their families, is a primary responsibility of the State, through the CPCJs, but also within other means and other public responses to social security, health, education and justice. All the human and material resources necessary for this monitoring must therefore be guaranteed, as well as for the monitoring of all existing responses. It is with this basic understanding, and in order to contribute to clarify roles in this reality of welcoming children and young people, that the CFP presents this initiative. There must be a clear and unequivocal separation between those who decide on a minor process, with the possible adoption of measures that pass through institutionalization, and those who create, participate in or manage in some way an institution that welcomes these same children.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u143	This separation is an elementary security measure aimed at preventing cases of unnecessary institutionalization or perpetuating this same measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u145	For this reason, the CFP proposes that those who participate in decision-making processes, whether on an administrative or judicial level, should not be able to integrate, directly or indirectly, social bodies from institutions that host children and young people at risk or at risk. The specific needs of each child shall have the appropriate response to them. Solutions and responses to these realities should always take into account the best interests of the child, not other interests, and cannot be transformed into a business. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u146	Mr Andreia Neto spoke on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP project wants to safeguard the decision to implement the placement measure for children and young people in danger of potential conflicts of interest, preventing those who participate, in any way, in administrative or judicial decision-making processes that determine the institutionalization of children or young people at risk, directly or indirectly, from integrating the social bodies of institutions of any kind which are intended to accompany or promote these institutionalization solutions. Of course, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, this is and will always be a concern if the decision is not exempt from other interests than the best interests of the child. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe it is important to look at the data in the 2017 CPCJ activity assessment report, which exactly contradicts the idea presented here today by the CCP and which reveal that 90 % of the measures applied are in the natural environment and that the placement measures will be the last resort used by CPCJs. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Article 20 ( 3 ). the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo refers to the participation of representatives of IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) or NGOs (non-governmental organizations) in restricted committees,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ...not specifying whether or not they are residential, which can naturally conflict with this PCP initiative. These data also alert to the fact that the bill refers only to the members of the social bodies of the institutions and not, for example, to their technicians, who are in practice in their restricted committees. It also considers CPCJ that the draft law, in the forms in which it is presented, will not have the desired effects on transparency, by limiting only the members of the social bodies the possibility to participate and decide on the measures of placement and promotion and protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be recalled that this question was raised in the context of the assessment of Petition No 460 / XIII / 3. a — I do not adopt this silence — about the illegal adoptions of the IURD ( Universal Church of the Kingdom of God), due to the need to be created an impediment that would make it impossible for judges who decide on processes of institutionalization of minors to belong to childcare associations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although the PSD is not against this legal impediment, we believe that we should extend this debate until we await the agenda in 1. the Commission, a set of hearings, which have already been approved, on the protection regime for children and young people and the adoption institute, as well as on the current procedure and practices, established in the context of the above petition, which point to the continuation of failures in respect of fundamental rights, in particular of children and their parents. The PSD, attentive to this whole context, has no doubt that this discussion should be longer and should not, at all, be discussed in this way, a naturally isolated form, as the CFP intends. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u148	You now have the floor, for an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We welcome the bill brought here by the PCP Parliamentary Group on a matter of the highest importance: the protection of children and young people in danger. The Left Block supports the overall objective of this project, in what is to ensure the exemption in decision-making on the institutionalization of children. It seems appropriate for us to find a mechanism to ensure that those who make decisions on the institutionalization of children do not hold or turn to institutions which will then be able to receive such children. However, we call on the fact that elements of entities that function to monitor processes of institutionalization of children — for example, but not exclusively, the CAFAP (Family Support and Parental Counselling Centres) — may be limited in what are the functions of the Child and Youth Protection Committees, which have, precisely, the administrative competence in promotion and protection processes that can pass through the institutionalization decision. One of the characteristics of the Child and Youth Protection Commissions—and which has been understood, in fact, as a functional advantage—is precisely this open composition, with elements of various services and entities with competence in the field of childhood and youth, which allow to bring important contributions and work in network and in partnership with the community and between the CPCJ. The Left Block agrees, as I said, with the aim of ensuring the full exemption in decision-making on the institutionalization of children, but considers that holding or managing childcare institutions is different from managing or holding entities that follow the promotion and protection processes and that therefore these things should not be confused — let us warn about this. We also wanted to keep alert to the need for an in-depth debate on these matters. We believe that it is necessary to think deeply about the system of protection for children and young people in danger, from the functioning and organization of CPCGs to the functioning of the host system itself. We have a law that defines as one of the guiding principles of intervention the prevalence in the family, either biologically or through adoption or other form of family integration. However, almost 90% of children and young people with care measures are placed in institutional care, to the detriment of foster care measures in the family environment. More than half of the children received are in it for more than two years! Some have been four, six or eight years! And some are welcomed for practically all their lives. Clearly, we are failing in what is the protection of children and young people in danger. I think this should make us stop thinking and evaluate what we're doing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u150	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing the debate a matter that is of the greatest importance and that has to do with children and young people at risk. The first point that we have to make in addressing this issue is that it is an area which is not well and which, therefore, has to deserve everyone's attention — and, when I say all, I speak of the government, of course, and of all the parties, regardless of the bench to which they belong. We are talking about children and young people at risk, we are talking about those who, among us, have less visibility, have less voice and have the greatest needs. And recognizing that things are not right is simply to look at the reality that comes to us — and it reaches us over the years. One of the data that the explanatory statement of this proposal, led by the PCP, brings us to the percentage of children who are delivered to residential institutions and those who are entrusted, for example, to family care. Among children who have placement measures — a solution which, according to the law, must be given the greatest attention, and which deserves the greatest attention, because the largest number of children is in the family environment — that is, in the most extreme cases, when children are considered to be worthy of a measure of placement, it is observed that a large percentage is placed in foster homes and not in family shelter. This is shocking, when we confront this reality with what is happening in other countries, particularly in southern Europe, where the percentage is only half of children in family care and half in residential care. in other countries, such as Ireland, this percentage is 90 % in family care, and in Portugal, it is only 3 %. This is a shocking fact that we have to change. All parties have to understand about this. I believe that the great risk of this proposal, which is played by the CFP, is that it sheds light on the solution to the problem. [[PCP protests.]] This is not the solution! Understand us! We can discuss this. The CDS will not imperil this proposal from the CFP, but the problem has nothing to do with conflicts of interest that may exist. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work on this subject. There isn't! What exists is manifestly little. In many districts there is no such thing. As the PCP proposal says, in Lisbon, zero, there is not only one child in family care! Any CPCJ in Lisbon who decides to place a child in family care has no answers on the part of social security. Madam Member, I do not want to pay tribute to the CDS, but indeed, for example, to the State Budget of the Proposal for a Law No 156 / XIII / 4. we proposed to strengthen the balance of budget allocation between the different measures of placement of children and young people at risk, ensuring effective implementation of family care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u152	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u153	This proposal ensured that family reception could be implemented in all districts of the national territory and, in particular, in Lisbon, through the Holy House of Mercy. The PCP voted against this! The PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party. What I hope, Mrs Diana Ferreira, regardless of what we shall vote on tomorrow, is that, next day, when we vote and discuss...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u154	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u155	... the response of family reception, we have the ability to give a totally different response to what we are giving in addition to each party, which exposes children and young people at risk to a fragility and vulnerability certainly unwanted by all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u156	Mr Susana Amador of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wish you all an excellent year of 2019. I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party, by bringing to breakfast and discussion, right at the beginning of the year, this matter of great importance, which relates to protection in childhood and which requires an in-depth and broad-spectrum debate. The rights of children are, above all, a fundamental struggle of our time and, as we know, and as José Jorge Letria says, «time never waits for us». In fact, children are always the first and most defenseless victims of disasters, tragedies, such as war, hunger, exodus or violence, but they are also the victims of this other daily and less visible tragedy, which is the lack of living conditions, which, in the material and emotional plane, continues to affect so many children and which always generates neglects and various abuses that we have to fight and invert. It is in this day-to-day that the Socialist Party is concentrating, developing relevant public policies, which strengthen the social state, increasing all social benefits, including family allowance, which has been updated in all budgets of this government, a process initiated in February 2016, with the increase of its increase for single-parent families, the increase of the amounts allocated to children aged 12 to 36 months and the replacement of the fourth income step up to 36 months. In 2019, continuity will be given to the approach to the articulation of various complementary sectoral measures, focusing on proximity measures aimed at combating the poverty of children and young people, aimed in particular at the first childhood, ensuring more protection and social inclusion. The Portuguese Communist Party project is worthy of its intention to safeguard any conflicts of interest the decision to apply the placement measure of children and young people in danger. The separation between those who decide on the paths of children and young people at risk and those who belong to social bodies of institutions that host children is also one of the purposes of this initiative. We understand that the institutionalization decision must always be exempt from other interests, and the principle of the best interests of the child must be the alpha and omega of any decision, which stems from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, from our Constitution and from the legislation applicable in this matter, as is also understood in its opinion by the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. This Law also provides for measures to promote the rights of children, support with parents, support with another family member, trust with the right person, support for autonomy of life, family reception, residential reception and trust with the selected person for adoption. These measures are implemented either in the natural environment of life or under placement, and one of the guiding principles of intervention is to give prevalence to measures that integrate children into their families. But any of the measures laid down in Article 35. the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo aims to satisfy the best interests of the child, and it must always be provided with security, health, training, education, well-being and integral development. That prevalence, however, will no longer be justified on the basis of known facts that lead to the impossibility of achieving this goal by using the extent to which the minor continues to be integrated within the family, as comes from our jurisprudence and a judgment of the 2014 Court of Auditors. We believe that it never decides to be mild by institutionalization and we trust the functioning of the institutions, which are committed with this guarantee and protection duty. However, we are always available to make the system as crystal clear as possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u158	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u159	I shall finish, with your tolerance, in a moment, Mr President. As I was saying, we are always available to make the system as crystal clear as possible and that is why we will make this initiative possible, which requires an in-depth and extensive debate, taking into account the data in this area. In the field of expertise, we consider it appropriate to make some changes, weightings and also an appropriate systematic insertion of this matter. We understand, in conclusion, that the impediment proposed by the leaders and technicians of institutions with residential reception should be restricted, leaving out members of another type of support for non-institutionalizing childhood. On the other hand, it should be at all stages of the child's follow-up process — that is what we want — preventing the leaders and technicians of these institutions with residential responses from intervening at any procedural stage, either in committees or in multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts or as experts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection of children and children's rights is a constitutional imperative and stems from international and European commitments ratified by Portugal, but more than a constitutional imperative, this defence is an unthinkable ethical imperative of all of us here also in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u160	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u161	The Socialist Party will always be available for greater and better protection of the most vulnerable, where children are included, in particular those who lack increased protection. We will work daily for a better Portugal, also in this area, always looking for the right way. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u162	Mrs New Year's tolerance, there are limits. Have 3 minutes to talk and exceed, in 2 minutes, the 3 that you have to intervene, we have to agree, it's a little too much. [[Laughing.]] [[A little bit!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u163	A very light thing! [[Laughing.]] Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about children and young people at risk and when we talk about the institutionalization of these children and young people, we must realize that there are problems that require, say so, various factors of intervention and problem resolution. And it seems that there are some that the CDS is not wanting to see or at least not wanting to follow, because this PCP bill plays a factor that, in our perspective, is important and even if Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia wants, for the credibility of the system itself, but also in preventive terms of problems we do not want to find. So it seems to me that we are on a good basis of discussion. When you detect and sign a child at risk, I think we will all agree that the first option should be intervention with the family of origin, just in order to eliminate the risk factors. For this, we need means! We need technical means, human resources, financial means to be able to act on these problems and with these families of origin. Only in the case of such intervention is it indeed impossible is it possible to justify the withdrawal of a child from the family context. The withdrawal of the child from your family must always take place on a provisional basis. But what do we see in our country? Oh, my God! We see that this « provisionally» often becomes final: 87, 4 % of children and young people in a foster situation end up institutionalized; only 3, 2 % of children and young people at risk are in foster families; up to 5 years, so little children, only 1, 7 % are in foster families. What do the Greens also consider important? Oh, my God! We believe that the institutionalization of children and young people at risk should not become a rule or a business. We must not be afraid of words or what might be a reality: institutionalization must not become a rule or a business! in this sense, it seems to us a good principle, preventive and credible, as I said at the outset, that whoever has to make a decision on measures to be implemented in relation to children and young people at risk should not occupy places of direction in the institution that welcomes these children. It seems to us a credible principle, indeed, and in this sense we welcome the draft law that the CFP brings to the debate and we shall vote-CL - as is natural, in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank you, because it usually exceeds time, but this time, it did purpose to...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u167	That's right! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u168	To close the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the CFP intends with this proposal is very simple: anyone who participates or has management responsibilities in social bodies of institutions that may receive children and young people in situations of danger, or at risk, cannot have any participation in decision-making on the type of measure to be taken in relation to a child who is in danger. This seems to us to be a clear proposal, which ensures transparency of the measures that can be taken and which is a form of security and prevention for any conflicts of interest that may arise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u171	It is a clear proposal, a simple proposal, which contributes to defending the best interests of the child. There are those who decide on the measure to be taken in the context of children at risk or at risk, and there are those who welcome them, and these people cannot be the same. It's as simple as this. Mrs Andreia Neto, it was also important to say, in this regard, that we do indeed know that the CPCJs, with a very short blanket, with very little means—and the CCP has, for many years now, raised the question of the need for greater resources for the CPCJs and also of technical reinforcements for social security— make a huge effort to ensure that the situation is effectively accompanied in the family context in the families of origin. We know this, but we still have situations where children are away from their family of origin and 71% of those cases that generate reception are, for example, negligence. And it was also important to understand, Mrs. Member, what is at the root of these situations of neglect, whether lack of family supervision or education care, generators of dropout or absenteeism at school. It is important to understand what is at the origin of this and to intervene, so that the situations of removal of the child from the family, so that the situations of reception in homes or family reception are effectively the last of the last resources, when all other solutions are naturally exhausted. The CFP is, of course, available so that this bill can be improved in the specialty, can be discussed, because what we want is in fact to contribute to clarify roles and thus to defend the best interests of the child. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u172	At the end of this item on our agenda, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, to make a set of announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u173	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Parliamentary Assessments Nos 92 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches, 93 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation to exploit the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of game, 94 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion, 95 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication routes, 96 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of justice, 97 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes, 98 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters, 99 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures, 100 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies, 101 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of unused public real estate, and 102 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking. Law No. 1057 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Housing Bases Act, 1054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the regime for the professional exercise of criminologists, 1055 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Establish a residence permit scheme based on investment activities in ecological projects — green visas, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1056 / XIII / 4. a ( NAP) — Ban the marketing of veterinary medicinal products whose active principle is diclofenac, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1058 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amends crimes of rape and sexual coercion in the Criminal Code in respect of the Istanbul Convention ( 47. the amendment to the Penal Code). Resolution Nos 1887 / XIII / 4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement a contingency action plan in order to take urgent measures to mitigate the overall impacts of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, which falls to 4. the Commission, 1888 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Combats working precariousness in the Port metro system, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1889 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of an integrated continuous care and rehabilitation unit at the facilities of the former Psychiatric Hospital in Lorvão, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1890 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Availability of accessible and up-to-date information on access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, with a view to eliminating obstacles and creating appropriate access conditions, based on the evidenced needs, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1891 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reorganise the curricula in basic and secondary education, which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-03.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce to the House that the Janeiras ceremony, scheduled for 18 hours and 30 minutes, was scheduled to begin immediately following this session, so it will begin within minutes. It remains to be borne in mind the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start at 10 a.m. as usual. First of all, the Law Proposals Nos 150 / XIII / 4 will be discussed together. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime for the exercise of private security and self-protection activity and 151 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend mandatory safety measures in restaurants or drinks establishments with dance spaces or rooms. Secondly, we will generally debate the Proposal for a Law No 149 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the application of the tax enforcement procedure to the compulsory collection of costs, fines, fines and other amounts charged in court proceedings. Thirdly, we will generally debate the Proposal for a Law No 153 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. Fourthly, the Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation of exploiting the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of play, will be discussed together[ Parliamentary Assessments No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 77 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 93 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion[ Parliamentary assessments No 84 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 80 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication[ Parliamentary evaluations No 85 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 74 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) e 95 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ), Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of justice[ Parliamentary assessments No 86 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 81 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 96 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ), Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes[ Parliamentary evaluations No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 78 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies[ Parliamentary assessments No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 79 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 100 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use[ Parliamentary Assessments No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 76 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 101 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures[ Parliamentary assessments No 72 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 99 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking.[ Parliamentary assessments No 73 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 102 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ], Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters [ Parliamentary assessments No 75 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 98 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ) and Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches[ Parliamentary assessments No 82 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 92 / XIII / 4a ( BE ). Finally, there will be the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
