ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is political statements. For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The beginning of the discussion, in social consultation, on the increase of the national minimum wage is one of the most important signs that the PS will again fulfil its commitments with the Portuguese in the next four years, as it has done in the previous legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This data is all the more relevant if we stress that fulfilling the commitment of the continued increase in the minimum wage over the next four years is much more than fulfilling one of the measures of the PS Electoral Programme included in the current Government Programme. It is, first and foremost, to fulfil with one of the key bases of the alternative of the PS development model for our country, a model of development based on the knowledge society, in the valuation of wages, in production with greater added value, as opposed to any model based on the exploitation of low wages. It is in this framework that the government's objective of increasing the minimum wage should be discussed for up to €750 by 2023. We mobilize society and the social partners for this goal, after the path of increasing the minimum wage for the last four years, is to create the conditions to ensure two fundamental axes of the response to the challenge of guarantee and overall improvement of wages. First of all, the acceleration and deepening of the longest and most significant period of increase in the minimum wage of our history. Secondly, the construction of an overall agreement on wage and income policy that defines and guarantees the widespread recovery of wages, with particular attention to the wages of the most qualified workers, which we want to retain and fix in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This update is as important as we were today to know that between 2015 and the third quarter of 2019, it was created in liquid terms and according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), plus 380 000 jobs, most of which have lasting links. Once again, it is proved that it is possible to combine the growth of the minimum wage with the increase and improvement of the quality of employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the increase in the minimum wage and an agreement on wages and incomes has as its first consequence the improvement of the dignity and living conditions of workers and workers and their families, having a very clear social meaning, to combat in a more sustainable and lasting way the excessive inequality that still exists in our country. This inequality especially affects young people at the time of entry into the labour market, but it is also very clear in the gender wage differential that growth in the minimum wage helps to reduce even if it is far from overrun. This is an indisputable truth: wage inequality, which is imperative to reduce strongly, has a feminine face that extends throughout a life path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, the battle for the consistent and lasting rise of wages is perhaps the main brand of economic and social development in line with the fundamental challenges of our country, responding with the improvement of living conditions to the challenges of young people's fixation and giving a strategic response to the sustainability of social systems; stimulating the modernization of businesses and increasing the indispensable commitment to the valorization of people, their lifelong learning and training; and breaking at once with an economic pattern where activities that are still too heavy, are only kept competitive in a fragile way through the compression of workers' wages and living conditions. There were times, not very far away, when many voices rose saying that raising the minimum wage was a mistake or, at least, a high risk. Today, most companies and partners take this need for wage progress as essential in order to remain solid in their markets and to attract scarce human resources today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, there are still those who define our goals as unwary or reckless. The reality of the Portuguese economy and society requires this distorted opposition. But for us, this is a decisive terrain of change, of real structural change. We want to follow this path with all of us, seeking consensus and convergences, but we will never turn away from this goal, because it is the best serves Portugal, the Portuguese and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u3	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, Mrs Fertuzinhos, wrote to ask for clarification, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u4	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u5	So you have the floor for this purpose, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u6	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the very important issue that you have brought to the debate. We also believe that our country cannot continue to bet on a low-wage policy. That is why it is absolutely imperative to pursue wage valuation, because it is a way to ensure more justice in the distribution of the wealth produced and at the same time to promote the increase of purchasing power and the improvement of the living conditions of the people who work and their families. This will also translate into a contribution to the recovery and dynamisation of the economy and domestic demand and, as a result, to national production and job creation, as in the past legislation, since the purchasing power of families has been restored, even if little. This was important with regard to the dynamisation of the internal market and had very positive reflections on our economy. Mrs Deputy, when we talk about the value of wages, we must talk about the national minimum wage, because despite the increase you have experienced in the previous legislation, it remains very low. It is sufficient to note that today the minimum wage is less than it was in 1974 and, in real terms, is currently less than 10 % of what it has been worth about 40 years. Therefore, I repeat, it is a very low value at all levels: it is low when compared to the minimum wage of the other countries of the European Union, it is low when we make a reading about wage and social inequalities in our country and it is low, to spray to unsustainability, when we look at the cost of living for the Portuguese. Thus, the most urgent thing is to change this philosophy, because, as we know, the minimum wage was frozen between 2011 and 2014, i.e. the PSD/CDS government, contrary to what was established, spent four years without any update of the national minimum wage. In fact, only at the end of 2014 did the government make a slight increase in the minimum wage—and it was a slight increase, it was not an update. That is why it is imperative, in fact, to increase the minimum wage that can be fair and bring people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u7	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, I ask you the following: do you think that the value of 750 €, which the Government points out as a proposal for the minimum wage, should or should not be understood as a mere minimum level of discussion in order to achieve a fair value of the national minimum wage?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u9	To request clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u10	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, we have listened carefully to your statement. in a country of low wages such as Portugal, where the weight of wages in the economy is still lower than in the period before the crisis and austerity and where there are still huge wage inequalities, the valuation and general improvement of wages should be a plan shared by all. In fact, it is important that those voices which in the past opposed the increase in the minimum wage because it would bring unemployment and economic crisis today do not even have the courage to invoke these arguments. I would like to ask you four specific questions. The government proposed the amount of €750 and it is with him that he wants to go to the discussion. We understand that it is a starting point, but it does not have to be the top of these negotiations. Since the Block has already defended the rise of the minimum wage to €650 in January 2020, I would like to know whether the Socialist Party follows this Block proposal and the fact that this increase is not subordinated, because it is the Parliament and the government that must decide, to any veto of the bosses. The second question is whether there can be a general improvement of wages without touching the issue of collective bargaining and without continuing to allow collective bargaining with the employer blackmail of the expiry of contracts and with the possibility of collective contracts with less rights than the general law provides. The third question is about the wage compression that is made today through outsourcing. Is it possible to improve wages without touching this issue of outsourcing and these mechanisms for reducing wages? The last question is about wage inequalities. We approved in the last Parliament a diploma in which Parliament recommended to the Government to discuss the limitation of salary losses. The government has committed itself, but has never led it, as far as we know, to social dialogue. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether, in this discussion on the valuation of wages, the issue of the limitation of wage inequalities and the establishment of wage slots should not also be a priority and a theme that must be on the table. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u11	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Both Mr José Soeiro and Mr José Luís Ferreira referred to the fact that there is today a consensus in Portugal in a cross-sectional manner on the need to continue this effort to increase the minimum wage. The first note I would like to leave is that this consensus is a victory of work that was possible in the last legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a victory for those who, with the PS — with the support of the Left Block, the Green Party and the CFP — have, in fact, never given up on this goal which is central to the development model of our country, which, first of all, has to guarantee the dignity of all and, in particular, the dignity of those who work. It is also a victory for the results that we have achieved over the past four years and that prove that it is possible to increase the minimum wage and, at the same time, to increase employment and its quality as well as economic growth. Therefore, this consensus is not born by chance, nor is it born of a will of all, born by the inevitability that is the reality of Portugal today, very different from the reality of Portugal of 2015. Mr Soeiro also referred to an issue which is very, very important: it is essential that we fight and deepen this path of increasing the minimum wage, encompassed by an objective and a new ambition to reach an agreement that mobilizes society for a strategy to value wages and incomes, including at the service of various objectives, including the fight against precariousness, as he mentioned, and the promotion of stability and quality of employment. Therefore, the commitment that the Socialist Party has today, once again, in Parliament — and which accompanies the Government's effort today in social dialogue — is the commitment not to give up in re-setting our model of economic development in a society of knowledge that produces greater added value, that values wages and that, in this way, can respond to the structural challenges of our country, as is the demographic challenge. With regard to the issue you have raised with regard to the value of the minimum wage, we will not replace social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u14	Let's let the social concert do its work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And once the work in social dialogue has been completed, the PS will naturally be in line with defending better wages, better work, better employment for our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u15	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered, in order to make requests for clarification, a further one Member, thus passing on to three registered Members. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, the theme of the wage valuations that Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos brought us here is very relevant. I would like to leave two notes and a few questions with regard to your political statement as soon as possible, because this is the opportunity for you to explain to us, indeed, how you intend to carry out wage valuations. Although he has spoken for 6 minutes, he has not been able to say, at any time, how he will achieve what seems to us not to pass on mere intention. So first of all, I leave two notes on this matter. in the first note I would like to say that the PSD has come, since the previous legislation, to present concrete measures that guarantee more and better employment, which have not unfortunately been accompanied by the Socialist Party. And it is for this better job that wages are being valued. That is to say, we agree that there is a need for wage valuation, but it is not just a wage valuation with words, acts are needed. That is what we hope for from this Socialist Party that brought this issue to debate. in a second note, I would like to point out that, in fact, we have always said that either the national minimum wage or many other labour issues should be analysed, discussed and agreed with the social partners in consultation. We therefore want nothing more than to express our satisfaction at the fact that the Government has begun meetings with the social partners with a view to updating the national minimum wage. We hope that it will not happen what happened in the past, when the government reached social dialogue and did not listen to the social partners, simply imposing a value on the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u18	We hope that this time will not happen. Even to finish, I would ask the honourable Member to explain what she has just said in relation to the intentions of valuing wages and increasing the minimum wage. It is essential to increase the minimum wage, it is essential to increase not only the minimum wage but all wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u19	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. How is the Socialist Party going to create the conditions that you said are necessary to ensure that wage valuation passes from one intention to another? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u21	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. The overall increase in wages is indeed a national emergency and it is essential for the value of work and for a more fair distribution of wealth, especially considering that, in our country, for example, 56 % of total wealth is in the hands of 1 % of the population. This says a lot about the distribution of income and the imperative need for a general increase in wages, a significant increase in average wage and national minimum wage. The increase in the minimum wage is also essential to combat social inequalities and poverty. There are hundreds of thousands of workers who today impoverish work, since the wage they bring home does not reach all the expenses they have ahead of them. This is a reality on which we must intervene, in order to improve living conditions, in order to increase purchasing power, in order to guarantee the right of young people and many couples to have children, which has not happened because of low wages. It is necessary to break with the policy of low wages which has been fattened in our country in recent years, as is necessary, Mrs Deputy, to ensure an effective fight against precariousness, because it is also an instrument to impose low wages on Portuguese workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u24	Madam Member, the overall increase in wages is a matter of political choice. The question before the PS and the Government is whether they are available to converge with the CFP proposal. It is that, Mrs Deputy, 750 € is a good starting point, but it cannot be a point of arrival for the national minimum wage. In other words, I wonder if the PS is available to converge with the PCP proposal of €850 for the national minimum wage, which is a matter that is not of social consultation but of government responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u26	It must indeed be the government's responsibility. On the specific and immediate action of the Government, particularly in the Public Administration, I ask whether the PS is available and whether the commitment is made to value careers and workers in order to ensure progress and their wage increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u27	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u28	I'm really gonna finish. Is the PS available to accompany the PCP in reintroducing the most favourable treatment principle?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u29	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u30	Even to conclude, Mr President, I wonder whether the PS is also available to defend collective bargaining, in particular to eliminate its expiry, in order to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u31	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sónia Fertuzinhos, brought the debate a subject which is undoubtedly very important in a country where wages, especially the minimum wage, but not only that, also the average, are much lower than we would like them to be. The honourable Member spoke of the record of the increase in the minimum wage. Previous point: I think it would be important that these interventions were not always on the channel of history. But since several parties talked about this, I would like to recall that the minimum wage was frozen in the time of a Socialist Party Government and that it was only possible to freeze it and take this matter to social consultation—which is where it must be, as I understand it, also stated, and well, the honourable Member—when a PSD Government and the CDS, fortunately, took the troika from Portugal and we were able to return to normal. So, from our point of view, if we were in favour of thawing when we were in the government, we certainly do not give up being now. Madam Member, it was not by chance that the minimum wage was frozen at a time of economic crisis. There is indeed a relationship between the value of wages and economic growth. The only true and sustained path to better wages — and Portugal needs better wages! — it is our country to have better economic growth. When I look at the minimum wages in the various Member States of the European Union, I see that where there is a higher minimum wage is in Luxembourg — more than €2000 per month. Next comes the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France. Would the honourable Member, looking at these countries, not make it any more sense to see what they are doing right from the point of view of economic growth, competitiveness and, above all, fiscal competitiveness? Do you also see that there is a fundamental relationship between higher minimum wages and economic growth, competitiveness and productivity? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u33	In reply, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, we have already realized the difficulty that the PSD has in responding to this issue at a new stage of continuing increase in the minimum wage. But now, with your question and your intervention, it was very clear that, if the PSD is unable to say that it is against the increase in the minimum wage, it is also not able to assume, once and for all, clearly, that it is entirely in favour. However, progress has already been made, Member of Parliament! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I had the opportunity to gather some news that reflects the positions of the PSD over time in relation to the minimum wage and I checked, in fact, that they have just assumed that increasing the minimum wage would be a barrier to employment and could lead to more unemployment to assume that increasing the minimum wage could only be in accordance with the growth of the economy or that the government's proposal is cast. And now Mrs Deputy, in order not to come here to say that the PS was right in 2015 and continues to be right in 2019 by continuing the increase in the minimum wage and an agreement to value wages as a central part of our country's development model, sought to find, in my intervention, here or there, something that could disguise so as not to have to take on reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Did the honourable Member mention any intentions? Oh, my God! The honourable Member has been accompanying the area of work for a long time and has been a Member in the last Parliament! In the last legislature, there were no intentions, there were realisations! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The minimum wage has steadily increased over the past four years and the honourable Member has asked how we can guarantee that we will do so. Mrs. Member, as we have already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u36	The PS did not just define and decree the increases, the PS went to social consultation, achieved two agreements to increase the minimum wage and, year by year, monitored, evaluated and published the impact of these increases on our economy and our society. It is therefore in this concerted, conciliated, consistent, transparent and reliable manner that the Government of the Socialist Party will continue to pursue the policy of increasing the minimum wage and valuing wages in general. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, if I recall, in the discussion of the Government's programme, came to say that the PS would have difficulty speaking about the government before the previous government and today, see, is the Member who comes to talk about the times of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u37	It has to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u38	But not invoking the troika can hide a fact from anyone who will read the CDS Election Program.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u39	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, very quickly and synthetically.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u40	I'll finish. It is that the CDS Election Program on minimum salary, Mrs. Deputy, has zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what we know is that if the CDS were in the government today we were not discussing the increase in the minimum wage, as, fortunately, we are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u41	For a political declaration, Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The uncertainties, concerns and enigmas of the big business of the socialist governments that so tormented the country between 2005 and 2011 have returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u43	What business? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u44	The lithium exploration contract in Montalegre is all less linear. If he has or does not have a criminal framework, it is judgment that the Public Prosecutor is already doing and it does not matter to bring him here. Parliament is not, in fact, a place for judicial trials, nor for tobacco trials, but it is also not a place that can stand on the edge of a huge escalation. This is an invitation to tender which binds the State for 20 years — it may go up to 35 — and it amounts to EUR 380 million. That is enough for a strict political assessment of the safeguard or not of the public interest and whether or not the process has been conducted with exemption and without dusty arks. The facts do not sit down and reveal strange coincidences. It is not only strange that the concessionaire was formed three days before the contract was signed, or that one of the partners of that company has another company based in the Socialist Freguesy Board of Montalegre, or even that company was committed to holding a share capital of EUR 1 million and at EUR 25. the time appears with a minimum capital of €50 000, without a sigh of indignation of the guardianship, which even found it irrelevant that one of its partners was accused of the practice of fraud crimes in obtaining Community funds. The most disturbing thing is that Dr. Galamba and Dr. Matos Fernandes gave green light to a concession of this dimension without being in possession of the environmental impact study, whose failure was justified, notes, the rejection of another identical concession in Covilhã in an incomprehensible duplication of criteria. Adding to this, the former Director-General of Energy, exonerated about a year ago by Dr. Galamba, stated that he would not sign the contract because there is no such study, but still, this contract, even without the study, ended up being signed as a force. The cherry on the top of the cake was that, in September 2018, triumphantly entered on stage a former Secretary of State of the Socialist Party in the area of internationalization, which appears as informal consultant of the company. Is everything the same? No, it wasn't all the same. The process was unlocked and the concession was delivered. All this is tortuous, but it's not all. It's worth it! But the synchronism of the head of office of this former member of the Socialist Government is the current head of office of Minister Siza Vieira, who has direct protection over the business, and is also the person who the Secretary of State João Galamba has always omitted from the universe of meetings on the subject gives rise to very creative conjectures about the smoothing of this process. All of this accident business may have been done without the spells and promiscuities already known in other cases, but that smells like stuttering there that smells. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, however much he does not accept, and he has avoided at the last plenary meeting, he must say whether or not he sees himself in the business and whether, in the ethical, political and principles, those rulers who protect him deserve his censure or not. You should also take advantage to explain, if you know, as it is obvious, why RTP did not issue the program Friday at 9 a.m. on September 13, as announced on your Facebook page, and only did it after the elections, on October 15, leaving the Portuguese safe from this apparent scandal to vote freely. Mr Prime Minister and the Government may also explain why the RTP programme management came, first, to say that the changes to the programming grid were related to the need for coverage of the election campaign and then that the programme was not ready to be issued on that September. Interestingly, Mrs. Sandra Felgueiras, who is at the heart of all this,... [[Deputy?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u45	...I didn't want to comment on this difference in RTP. [[Deputy?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u46	I know what's bothering you! I know what's bothering you! But the point isn't there, sirs. Members, it is not in any journalist, the point is in the action of the Government and of two members of the Government. And we already know that the government and the PS are unable to practice any anti-democratic manipulation of interference in social communication. We know that! But they will have to be able to clarify whether, in this particular case, the rules of ethics and transparency that should guide the management of the public thing have been respected or not. This is the appeal that the PSD here makes and that it will never let go as long as it has more doubts than certainty, which is the case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u47	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that registrations for requests for clarification must be made until the end of the speech of the speakers. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, six Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u48	Mr President, I will respond in groups of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u49	Of course, Mr. Deputies. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Peixoto, ladies and gentlemen, has brought us many doubts and perplexities about a particular case. in this regard, the traditional position of the CDS, which seems sensible to me, is always to say that to justice what is justice and politics what is politics, and it is not due to politics to do justice or to make politics. But the truth is that politics cannot also be blind, deaf and changed in relation to the management of the public thing. Therefore, for the CDS, it is vital and relevant that there is transparency on the one hand and, on the other hand, a justice which, when there are doubts, rushes and quickly checks whether there are reasons for what, as Mr President said, smells and looks — and justice cannot be done of what it seems, must be done of what it is. Thus, we have proposed in the last elections—and I am sure that this plan is as important for the PSD as for us—a national strategy to combat corruption and organised crime that goes through a number of things, namely: by having a real judicial police with means and not always struggling with lack of means, as we have had; by having a statute of repentance; by having protection of the complainant; and by rethinking this regime of mega-processes, which cannot constitute an obstacle to effective justice. The idea that there has to be an almost endless connection of processes, which leads to the fact that then the public perception is that justice is not made because they simply take many years to the end, it needs to be found a solution and it has to be a legal solution. Finally, I would like to ask you why we think transparency is important in the exercise of public functions and it is important to know who has influenced each decision, if the PSD is finally available to have lobbying regulations. It is not a political game here to know which parties are in favour or which parties are against, above all, that there is transparency and who has taken and participated in each decision. With a record of this participation, there would be no longer many of the doubts that are raised by television reports, and thus we would not be discussing suspicions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u51	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u52	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, we realize that your party's internal elections are at the door and that the temptation to make an opposition with little content and much demagogy is very great on the part of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is one thing I want to say to you in your eyes: we don't receive any ethic baths from the PSD. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u53	You know why? Because, as it appears, none of the partners of Lusorecursors has or has had any connection to the Socialist Party. But the same can no longer be said about the PSD, since one of the founding partners of the company who won the concession for the exploitation of lithium was national leader of the PSD, who is accused of 35 crimes, and his first vice president was the current president of his party, Rui Rio. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It remains V. Ex. to know that it was the founding partner of this company who was able to grant the exploitation of lithium in Montalegre. Do you know who approved the contract on behalf of the Portuguese State for the exploration of lithium in Montalegre?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u54	What does that matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u55	Do you know which government has drawn up the law that allowed the allocation of operating rights to Lusourresources?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u56	What does that matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u57	I will tell you: it was the PSD government and it was your Minister of Economy who granted this lithium exploration in Montalegre. You know! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, what does the contract say? The contract states that the State shall ensure that the undertaking is granted as long as it fulfils its contractual and legal obligations. Which ones? One, do the exploration and research. Two, evidence of the geological resources identified. Did the company do the survey and research? Yeah. Has the company shown the resources identified? Yeah. Does the law say there has to be minimum social capital? No, and I remember that the law was made by a government of your party. Does the law say the company has to have a minimum age? No, no, no. Subsequently, and having fulfilled all these requirements, the company has the right to indicate, or to set up, the company to which the concession will be granted. That's what happened. Having arrived here, and after five technical opinions from the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, could the Secretary of State of Energy have refused the award? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u58	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u59	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Could Mr. Secretary of State address any conflicts of interest between partners? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u60	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u61	What I want to make very clear, and to finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u62	But you really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u63	... is that it was the PSD government that assigned the concession of lithium in Montalegre. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u65	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, the question of lithium, in fact, needs all the clarifications and all the caution when it comes to dealing with it. Transparency is necessary, conclusions must be drawn and positions must be taken — either by the Government prior to the former Government or by the former Government — it is necessary to think about the economic model we currently have on the table and, of course, to think about how to deal with this issue of lithium, rather than the tricks and rocks between the PS and the PSD. In fact, we are talking about very important resources and resources that are with populations in the interior, which are currently affected by this type of exploitation, not being referred to in the 2015 Basic Law as these farms are moving forward without a strategic environmental assessment. Nor is it understood how the definition of prospecting and exploitation of this ore would be avoided, which seems essential to our country, and how this has not been guarded, for example, by resorting to its public exploitation, because there we would no longer have problems with the private people who have links with the PSD, the Socialist Party or any other entity. It is that this is an exceptional ore for Portugal and we need to understand how it is controlled. We had the chance to ask the Minister of the Environment how he understood this situation and we did not get an answer. But we would also like to know, on the part of the PSD, how you understand the exploitation of lithium, since the exploitation itself has been little addressed here. Finally, I would like to tell Mr. Hugo Pires that we hope the government will not bury its head in the sand, because there are conclusions to be drawn regarding the law it has referred to and which allows the existence of these kinds of manoeuvres. In our view, it can only be miswritten and must be altered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u66	To reply, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all the questions you have asked me and for the comments you have made. Starting with Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I must say that it is not because of the fact that we use the horn, which is very common in Parliament and everywhere, that to politics what is politics and justice what is justice that we do not have the duty, the obligation and responsibility to question politically, and only politically, the acts of the government here in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u68	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u69	That is what the PSD here wanted to bring, not meddling in what concerns justice. The process is running and we'll see what the outcome will be. Mr. Hugo Pires surprised me. I think the PS reacted to this PSD initiative in the worst way. I could have even thanked the opportunity and taken advantage of it to hurt what has happened, because the government has been, at least, disparate and acted without regard, but, no, it has not even taken advantage of exorbitant mistakes from the past that are tormenting us and occupying the courts throughout this week, and they will be going on in the coming years. The Socialist Party, as has already been said, is equal to itself: it maintains a state of brutal denial, almost a sovereign, with a mixture of political irresponsibility, and deals with a matter of such irresponsibility as if it were a business of carpentry, with all respect for carpenters and carpenters. Sir, do you know what I can tell you? Who shouldn't, don't fear! There is no governor or public servant who is above the scrutiny of his actions and the thorough examination of his decisions. It is the ethical elevation — here too we are dealing with ethics — that must be present in all positions, and Caesar's wife is not enough to know it, it must be thought of. What happens in this business is a lightness, a lightness that makes impressions and that should catch everybody up. Mr President, do you know what happened to the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology and to this company that you quoted in your mouth? You know what happened? This company, which had not yet been named – called Lusorecursos Portugal Lithium, S.A. — had a positive approval and opinion of the Directorate-General for Energy even before it was created. It's not a lie! It is only six days later that the future owner of this company informed the Directorate-General for Energy that he would get a name for the company and, therefore, before he was. And do you think this is all normal? Oh, my God! That's why our country is like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u70	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u71	Mr President, do not take these attitudes, because they are those attitudes that do not cloud politics...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u72	Mr President, I am asking you to conclude for the second time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u73	...and politics must be made of elevation, ethics, morals and responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u74	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Peixoto, the PSD decided to bring to this debate the theme of lithium, an important issue but which dispenses demagogies, especially from a party that, when it was in the government, traded in hiding and on the eve of elections the concessions for the prospecting and exploitation of oil on the Portuguese coast.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u77	On the subject of lithium, the position of the CFP is clear: the country should know its mineral resources and should assess, in each case, whether extraction is beneficial or harmful, considering all impacts — positive and negative — for economic development, for the public interest, for the environment and for the population. In recent years, the world demand for lithium has increased greatly, which has resulted in enormous pressure from multinational mining companies, with a view to obtaining licensing. In the immediate future, it is necessary to prevent genuine extraction processes from occurring with lithium, similar to those that occurred in the distant and more recent past.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u79	To this end, we advocate the reassessment of current concessions and the suspension of all processes of launching new exploration and lithium research licenses. We defend that the State should have the ability, in human and technical means, to carry out exploration and research campaigns, without being dependent on multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u81	I therefore ask you, Mr President, to end the promiscuity between the public and the private and to let the country know its resources and decide, without being dependent on multinationals, what to do with them, is whether or not the PSD is in accordance with the need to have a public enterprise for this area, which guarantees national interest, instead of continuing to exploit national resources to foreign companies without any appreciation of these resources for the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u82	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u83	Mr President, the PSD brings here today the question of the exploitation of lithium, a matter of concern to the Greens. I myself was among the people in initiatives that took place in Morgade, Montalegre and even Lisbon, accompanying the concerns of the population that they keep and that they live than those lands give, as well as the younger ones who had to go out to work in other nearby places but that every weekend they return, keeping the ties to land and culture, ensuring that the customs are not lost. The classification of Barroso's territory as a world agricultural heritage, by FAO (Organization for Food and Agriculture), brought a new mood for the people who felt they were justly invaded in a territory that already suffers from isolation and desertification and that is deprived of public services. For the Greens, the public interest is injured, both in contractual procedures and in environmental protection. Therefore, Mr. Member, we would like to know what guarantees existed for the populations and for the national interest in the prospecting and research contract approved by you in 2012, and whether the PSD agrees that this exploitation is done in territory classified by FAO. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u84	There is also a request for clarification from the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mr. André Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Peixoto, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to debate. There are several aspects in this process that raise many doubts. From the outset and in accordance with the legislation in force, the operating contract should be made only with the company which has drawn up the prospecting. However, the holding was awarded to another different company. On the other hand, even on the basis of a matter of security and contractual stability, it is strange that the Government has signed a contract with a company constituted only three days before the conclusion of the contract, whose head was charged by the DCIP (Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ) for allegedly diverting EUR 10 million from Community funds, when the exploitation of resources in the country that the government and all of us consider essential for the decarbonisation of the economy is concerned. But, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, what does the PSD want to do now to solve cases like this, that smelled like stupid? What can we all do here in this House? We can, in particular, make legislative amendments so that these cases occur to a lesser extent. I would like to raise three questions, the first being the following: the prospecting contract in Montalegre was signed by a PSD government, in a framework such as at present, in which the legislation in force only makes the environmental impact assessment under exploitation mandatory. The NAP considers that the legislation should be amended to ensure that the evaluation is mandatory also in the prospecting phase. What does the PSD think about this proposal? The second question, Mr President, is this: by caution, the NAP argues that contracts can only be signed after the environmental impact study has been drawn up with a positive opinion. What does the PSD think about this proposal? What does the PSD think of, for example, in the case of Montijo airport, having first been signed the contract and then we will be waiting for the environmental impact study? Do you agree or disagree? Do you follow the position of the NAP? Are we going to change this question or not for that? The third question is that we also want to change the public consultation regime in environmental impact assessment processes, so that it is no longer a fiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u86	Mr President, I would like to ask you very much to sum up on the third question, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u87	Mr. President, I'm done. In particular, by means of the obligation to ensure clarification sessions and expressions of citizens in the final report, with a justified response to concerns. What does the PSD think about this proposal? Will you follow her or will we stay in the same? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u88	To answer that, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u89	Mr President, I would like to thank you again for the questions that have been raised and start with by Mr Duarte Alves, who has rightly spoken about the past and a matter which is not called here. [[PS Members' laughs.]] Do you know why, Your Honor? The Portuguese Communist Party may feel somewhat responsible here for what happened, because it has been "married" with the Socialist Party's government for the past four years... [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u90	Don't run away!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u91	... and what we are enjoying here are not only the failures of the Socialist Party but also the failures of those who allowed the Socialist Party to do what it did.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u92	Don't run away! Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u93	It is not worth the ladies now to shake the water from the hood because they were also supporting the Socialist Party and, in this case, they have done nothing literally.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u94	It's political cowardice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u95	What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that a State Secretary or a minister is not a police officer of companies or entrepreneurs or a judge of their conflicts. We know this perfectly, but the rulers are guardians of honesty, transparency and intransigent public interest and, in this case, they were not. This is what's at stake! Once again, there is no question of the initial lithium prospecting contract for which all parliamentary groups are taking the matter. It has nothing to do with it! [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u96	Irresponsibility, immaturity and recklessness were all committed in this case in April, in the last year of the Socialist Party, in the award of the operating contract, it was not in the prospecting contract. Here are the failures!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u98	Here is, I say, gross negligence, not to use more elucidative expression. Let's see where this is coming from! You cannot look at this as if it were just a matter. Does anyone believe that, in a case next to it in Covilhã, the government said that it did not give the concession of exploitation because there were no studies of environmental impact and, in this particular case, lacking the study, does it grant? Why does it use two criteria, two weights and two measures for equal situations? The government has to explain this. The government has to explain this and it has to explain much more! The fact that they said that there were positive opinions from all the technicians who appreciated the process is not enough, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. You know why? Because, two days before this contract was signed, the Secretary of State and the Minister received in his office high individualities from the country that were communicated to them that there were dangers in granting this company in particular, that there was a lack of fitness of the company and the entrepreneurs, and the rulers responsible for this did not want to know literally about anything and, in a hurry, signed this contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u99	And change the law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u101	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I end by quoting your previous party leader, Antonio José Seguro, who said: "What's the hurry? The Bible says: “He does not know what we are doing. ” What was the hurry of the gentlemen to grant a contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u102	The rush is for the honourable Member to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u103	... before the environmental impact study? I'm done, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u104	Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will now make an important announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to inform you that you have entered the Draft of Deliberation No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u106	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let's move on to another political statement. For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has decided, during the summer and in the full pre-election period, to approve important amendments in the waste collection and treatment sector. First, in the Council of Ministers, it passed a decree withdrawing tariff powers to the regulator, the ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ). Thus, it would become the Government's main role in these decisions which are essential for the definition of EGF's profits and the rates charged to the populations. The EGF (Environmental Global Facilities ), a company of the Mota-Engil Group, has a past of pressures on ERSAR and tariff regulation, requiring ever greater profits. ERSAR has contained these claims to avoid increases in the turnover paid by the population. To the question « what problem the Government wanted to solve with its decree », the only answer seems to be the claim of Mota-Engil. in the second moment, in August, an order arises to be delivered—without a public tender and without a counterpart; I repeat, without a public contest and without a counterpart—a new business to the EGF. The company obtained the exclusive collection of bioresidues, except where the municipalities opposed. These two measures are part of a history of public choices that seem to correspond to the interests of Mota-Engil and its profits. I will be assisted by the timing of the events which the Board of Directors of ERSAR sent to the Committee on the Environment last September: the EGF applied for Community funds in the area of bioresidues; from May, ERSAR pronounced itself and said that the legal framework for these applications was lacking, since the grant of the EGF did not include bioresidues; on 16 June, the EGF formally complained to the Government for not having the green light of ERSAR for the candidacy of the Community funds; the Government then returned to choosing the private side in the war against the regulator; and on 5 August, the Secretary of State of the Environment issued a notice extending the grant of EGF for the collection of bioresidues. Let us be clear: on this date, the government already knew that this office was injured in illegality. on this date, ERSAR had already sent justified information to the Ministry, including the violation of the Public Contracts Code. But the government insisted. Chronology is clear: first, the company competes with European funds for an activity that is not its own; prevented, recourse to the government ; and the government delivers to it, by ticket and without tender, bioresidues, even knowing that the regulator, and now also the PGR ( Attorney-General's Office of the Republic ), consider this decision contrary to the law. In fact, the concept of bioresidues already existed in Portuguese legislation before the privatisation of EGF, but it was not included in the concession. Bioresidues are garbage like food scraps or cut grass. Until 2023 they will have to be collected selectively for valuation, as we do today with paper, glass and packaging. According to the business association of the sector, this business area has an estimated value of EUR 60 to 70 million. By 2015, EGF was a profitable public enterprise. With its sale by the State, a private monopoly was created in waste management. Now, he insists on the mistake and tries to extend this private monopoly to a new sector. It's unacceptable! It's unacceptable! We rejected the reinforcement of the private garbage monopoly in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The business was stopped by the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney General of the Republic, on the order that the bioresidues were delivered to the Mota-Engil company. But the retreat is only partial. In response to the 6th to 9th programme, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action does not seem to have given up in weakening the regulator in tariff policy. The Government insists on the decree that Belém has returned and that the Minister claims to have "traced" to the new legislation. It is time for the government to clarify its intentions for this sector and its regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a justification for the hurry to assign the business to Mota-Engil. The government says that it was important to ensure the approval of Community funds, however, we have seen this film too many times. A private company has a public service, but the investment continues to be mostly public, whether national or European. Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action also said that municipal public competitions were irrational, compared to their idea of delivery, free and exclusive to Mota-Engil. We believe that waste management is an essential public service to the people and therefore it must be owned and managed by the public; it must be subject to democracy and subordinate to social needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u111	We call on the Government to publicize the PGR's opinion so that its objections and its legal confrontation with the diploma concerned are known. It is a requirement of transparency and democracy that this should be done, that it be public knowledge. And it is because of all the explanations to Parliament and the country that the Left Block will call Minister Matos Fernandes to the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u112	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u113	Mr. President, I conclude. On the side of the Left Block, we will fulfil in Parliament our function as the supervisory officer of the action of the Government and will ensure the full scrutiny of this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u114	Mr President, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u115	Mr President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u116	You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, it is quite relevant how the Left Block introduces this issue, and it is particularly necessary to reflect on how Portugal, until 2023, will necessarily have to meet the goals of PERSU ( Strategic Plan for Urban Residues ) 2020. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u118	It was for this purpose that applications were opened to municipal waste management entities so that they could make their investments and, in this way, the rate applied in the treatment of this type of waste could be the least possible for their users, for the populations. The collection of bioresidues is a novelty for the sector and much of the authorities will have difficulty developing autonomous systems. EGF is a private undertaking which participates by 51 % in about two thirds of the multi-municipal enterprises operating at the national level. The applications raised doubts about the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) and the regulatory entity's disagreement. The reason for the disagreement was in the interpretation of the concession contract for exploitation and management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u119	Monopoly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u120	It was understood by the Secretary of State of the Environment that, in the context of the activities granted, selective collection also covered bioresidues; on the contrary, and on the basis of an undefined and reported definition at the date of the concession, the regulator understood that the collection of RSU (urban solid waste) did not include bioresidues. This collection is essential for meeting the goals and depends on incentives without which the managing entity cannot meet, placing the tariff on absolutely unconformable values. The former Secretary of State João Ataíde stressed an order that argued that the activity, being selective collection, should fit the systems, except when the municipalities wanted to develop the activity. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities gave agreement to the content...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u121	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u122	...of the office, safeguarding the autonomy of the municipalities. In a different way, he thought of the regulator. In fact, the problem that is currently on the table is to realize how 1, 5 kg of waste or municipal solid waste or bioresidue that each Portuguese produces daily,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u123	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u124	... we are able to lower this value and create added value for what are the intentions of investment and treatment of this matter, in order to meet the targets of CO2 reduction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u125	You also have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Bruno Coimbra, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, history is very important in this case. It is that this government wants to change the legal regime of the multi-municipal waste collection systems and, without consulting the regulatory authority, it has made a decree that would allow this government, above all and above all, to adjust tariffs to the benefits of companies. In July, he adopted the amendment to the Council of Ministers; in August, before the veto of the President of the Republic, he transformed the decree into an order in which he considers that it is now the EGF responsible for bioresidues, without any public tender, without the necessary consultations, but with a remarkable speed, in the summer and before the end of the legislature. The regulatory authority requested annulment of the said order; the Government did not reply. ERSAR has advanced with participation in the Public Prosecutor's Office, because transparency criteria and inexplicable competitive privileges are involved. More: ERSAR complains of pressures and an intrusion never seen by a government in the action of an independent regulatory entity. In the press, the government is shielding itself from the need to meet targets and the concession contract, lying about EGF's right to these tasks. More: the government says it submitted the order to consult several entities, but was promptly denied by some of those entities. contrary to what the government has tried to make believe, the review of the basis of concessions of the multi-municipal waste systems carried out in 2014 was clear: the 2014 concession does not attribute the selective collection of the row of bioresidues to the EGF, moreover, excludes from the grant of these wastes. It is therefore no surprise that we see the Advisory Council of the GRP giving a negative opinion, saying that « the collection of bio-residues is not the object of the EGF dealership ». That is why the government is retreating today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u128	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This government has chosen an illegal, not transparent and incorrect solution even to the municipalities. And, before the polling, it prefers to distract people, associating the subject with previous contracts, where these situations are not and never were foreseen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u129	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. It has already far exceeded the 2 minutes assigned to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u130	to the Left Block we asked whether, after hearing the clarification of the Socialist Party Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u131	Sir, thank you. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u132	... continues to demarcate from this governance. It is appropriate to say, Mr. President, and even to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u133	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u134	... that they were able to silence the Friday at 9 before the elections, but they will not be able to silence the election of this Assembly of the Republic! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u135	You have the floor to answer Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u136	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, welcome to the outrage. The question is that this problem was created by PSD and CDS, when the EGF was privatized by Mota-Engil. Mr. Deputy said that history counts, but history tells that EGF was a public, efficient and profitable company, and PSD and CDS understood to privatize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u137	No, no! It was this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u138	That is the source of the problem. Let us ask ourselves: who benefited from privatization? Were the populations? No, no, no. It was, alone and exclusively, Mota-Engil. Let's not go back to that process. PSD and CDS have no solution or alternative to this problem. But, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro says that the legislative amendments are for the people to have a lower rate. It happens that the decree-law is precisely on the contrary: it is for the tariffs to rise, to compensate for the investments that the State intends to make. So we're talking about rate rise and not rate drop. A second problem is the fact that the Socialist Party has considered, and well, that the privatization of EGF by the PSD and the CDS was not transparent, unclear and of great conflictability—excellent! — but now, in this process, which has not been transparent either, seems to be quiet. What we ask the Socialist Party is that it also wants to examine this process. Finally, I must say that it is strange that no one has noticed that the issue of bioresidues was not included in the concession. It is that in the specific case of Valorsul, trucks and containers were already affected by bioresidues and in the privatization of EGF these infrastructures were not considered for privatization, precisely because EGF was not considered to have bioresidues. What the Government of the Socialist Party is trying to do is to hand over this business of bioresidues to a private company without a public tender. This will have our strong opposition and will also have our alternative from the point of view of public service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u139	You now have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u140	Mr President, I welcome Mr Nelson Peralta on the subject which brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, we are particularly concerned at the fact that in August the government sought to pass through the raindrops, it decided to assign to the EGF, of the Mota-Engil private group, responsibility for the activity of the selective collection of bioresidues. This decision makes it clear what the choices and interests here are. And it was certainly neither the public interests nor the interests of solving environmental problems, but the interests of the business and the private interests of this same group. As ERSAR itself states in its position, the government's decision does not have any legal and contractual framework, because the selective collection of organic waste, bioresidues, does not integrate the whole object of the concession contracts concluded between the state and the companies of the EGF group currently in force, being the responsibility of the municipalities. This is the central issue, with regard to the whole process. We are talking about competences that have long been the tasks of the municipalities of our country, and the government has no legitimacy to withdraw competences from the municipalities and attributed them to the EGF. This is the fundamental issue with regard to this matter, in particular because it not only emptied the municipalities of this set of competences — which have long been theirs — it calls into question the investment already made by the municipalities in human resources and equipment, and enables the EGF, once again, to benefit from Community funds, taking a monopoly position here. It is true that all this is possible following the privatization of the EGF, which was at the time pursued by the PSD and the CDS, I recall, against the will of the populations, against the will of the municipalities, once again withdrawing these same competences from the municipalities themselves. The main question about this matter that I wanted to leave here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u141	Mrs. Deputy, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u142	Thank you, Mr President, I will even finish by thanking you for your tolerance. I said that the main question about this matter is if you do not see with concern this lack of legitimacy, attributing powers that are today public service by the municipalities of our country, to a private group, and if the reversal of the privatization of the EGF, which we consider to be priority, should not move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u143	I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u144	Does it not consider it essential that progress be made towards the reversal of the privatisation of EGF? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u145	Mr Nelson Peralta, the next request for clarification is from the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mr. André Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u146	Mr President, Mr. Nelson Peralta, I would like to congratulate you on the issue that has brought here, a problem in which, if this decision were to be taken forward, restrictive competition practices which would, in an unacceptable way, favour the Mota-Engil Group, attributing to it the exclusive collection of waste and removing the regulator from the entire process. It is true that until 2023 Portugal must selectively collect the bio-residues, and that they account for 40 % of all urban waste, which corresponds to about 2 million tonnes per year and to a business in the order of 80 to 100 million euros, which, if not revoked, would be delivered to the EGF without a public invitation to tender and with costs borne by users, through the fees to be charged. We follow the Left Block initiatives. We consider it essential that the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic be made public, an opinion of a public body on a public act which therefore concerns everyone. We also consider it essential that the Minister for the Environment be heard about this whole process. But, Mr. Nelson Peralta, there are other issues we think should be clarified. How has the performance and results of the EGF been evaluated after its privatisation in 2015? Are the terms of the privatisation contract, which, of course, had to include the technical, economic and public service objectives provided for in the book of charges for privatization, being fulfilled? What is the entity responsible for making such an assessment and when will it be made public? It is essential to clarify these and other issues, as well as the state of the waste collection sector in our country, so as soon as the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment is installed, the NAP will enter an application to hear Mr. President of ERSAR, the Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services, Dr. Orlando Borges. We ask, Mr Nelson Peralta, whether the Left Block accompanies these concerns and whether we are also in line with the NAP's request for Mr ERSAR to be heard in Parliamentary committee. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u147	In reply, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u148	Mr President, Mr André Silva, we congratulate the NAP on accompanying the concerns of the Left Block on this business and also on the concrete issue of the separation of waste and the importance that this sector has in the country. We are fully available to hear also the President of ERSAR, although his position is already known in this Parliament, through the basis which he brought to the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment last September. In fact, this opinion of ERSAR is quite hard for the government. There it is said that there are four illegalities in the office that hand over the business of bio-residues to Mota-Engil and it is essential that this ballot should not have been made by an order, it would have to be done by means of a non-administrative and heavier standard. So we are in fact faced with an obstacle that we want to reverse and we want the next steps on this issue to be transparent. We believe that the privatized EGF has largely failed in the service of the populations, particularly the waste that does not separate and that goes too far to land. Mrs Paula Santos, we really share concerns about the interests that this business is responding to. In fact, it does not respond to low rates for the population, to the public interest of having more waste collection, no, it is a business that only serves a private company. On the other hand, on this subject, I must remember the agreements on the left. He said the agreement signed between the Left Block and the Socialist Party that one of the essential measures was the reversal of the privatisation process of the EGF, on the basis of its illegality. That is, four years ago, the Socialist Party considered that the privatisation of the EGF could be illegal because it created a monopoly sector in the country; now, after four years, the party that found it illegal to deliver it, and well, it presents to us this business in which it assigns, free of charge, without public competition and by dispatch, in August, a whole line of business to a private company. We are surprised that the Government is doing this and we want, in fact, in the coming weeks, with the opening of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, to call on the Commission the Minister of the Environment to be heard and to be able to clarify all these steps, this whole procedure in relation to this business. Above all, we want to stop the business and ensure the public interest in collecting and selecting waste and bioresidues. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of this political statement and of their questions and answers. The next political declaration is the responsibility of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As much as they want to impinge a confectioner, what Portugal needs is a new airport. An airport worthy of that name, which has capacity for expansion and development; which allows a phased investment to meet the future needs of the country, which integrates, with better conditions, the multiple activities of strategic importance that develop in civil aviation, from maintenance and engineering to logistics and services, in conjunction with other modes of transport, inserted into a broader strategy of modernization and development of the main national infrastructures. Portugal needs an airport with a future, which allows a process of transition, not to overburden but, yes, to relieve the pressure on the current Lisbon Airport, and that it is a factor not of degradation but rather of planning and qualification of the territory, avoiding and minimizing harmful impacts on populations and ecosystems. But the Government continues to impose a disastrous option for the country, with the surrender to private management of one of the most important bases of the Portuguese Air Force, transforming BA6 into Montijo into an airport equipment totally unable to respond to the needs and development potential that lie ahead, into a strategic vision for the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u152	In addition, the options of the PS and PSD/CDS governments in recent years have systematically been converging in the submission to the interests of multinational Vinci, which has taken control of the national airport network. The content of the decision recently disclosed by the Portuguese Environment Agency as regards the Environmental Impact Declaration of this disastrous project has given cover to a wrong strategic option, due to the inclusion of how many supposedly mitigating or compensating measures. We are in the face of a process that, with the aim of scandalously benefiting the interests of multinational Vinci, undermines the national interests and the development of the country. The need for a new international airport in the metropolitan area of Lisbon has long been identified to replace, in a phased way, the current airport in Portela, a need that stems not only from the current air traffic bottlenecks that are already occurring at Humberto Delgado Airport but also from the need to provide the country with an airport infrastructure that meets the needs of the 21st century. The construction of the new international airport on public land in the Campo de Tiro de Alcochete area was, after the important national debate that took place for years, the option most likely to meet the requirements. When the Government says that this debate has lasted for many years it is necessary not to ignore the Council of Ministers Resolution which in 2008 approved the LNEC Report and approved the location of the new Lisbon airport in the area of the Alcochete Shooting Camp. The privatisation of ANA Airports, implemented by the PSD Government / CDS, assigning Vinci the exploitation of 10 national airports for a period of 50 years, accompanied by their substantial airport revenues, was a machadada for the national interest. A strategy for a substantial increase in airport rates and a reduction in investment was then launched. It is in this picture, and not in another, that the possibility arises of the use of the current Montijo Air Base, complementary to Humberto Delgado Airport, instead of the phased construction of a new international airport. Instead of using all means at your disposal to defend national interests, the Government chose to submit and align with Vinci's interests. It abandons a solution for the future and accepts a solution for the future, which does not solve any of the structural problems and raises others, much more complex and worrying, such as the impacts on the quality of life of the populations of the surrounding municipalities, environmental degradation and new risks to airport safety. We reaffirm: the country cannot subject its development and its response to its needs to the interests of economic, national or foreign groups. If there is a lesson to be learned from this process, Portugal needs to quickly recover public control of airports, placing them at the service of national development. The CFP will continue to intervene in this regard, fighting for phased construction, according to the possibilities of the country, of the new international airport in the Alcochete Shooting Camp, which means investment and respect for the quality of life of the populations and the preservation of environmental values, reaffirming a strategy that enhances and develops the set of airport infrastructures existing in the country, including those such as the Beja Airport, clearly under-utilized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u154	We will continue to fight for a country free of the conditions that have delayed and damaged it, a Portugal with future, sovereignty and development. For this they can continue to count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u155	Mr Bruno Dias, you have four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u156	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u157	To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u158	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing this matter to the debate, which is indeed the subject the Greens have chosen for their political declaration today, and I believe that only the fact that there are two political statements on the same subject is very revealing the importance and opportunity to discuss the Montijo airport. In our perspective, this process was born wrong, and was born wrong for three reasons: firstly, because Montijo airport is directly related to the expansion of Humberto Delgado Airport, when the processes should be absolutely autonomous; secondly, because the State has signed an agreement, in January this year, with Vinci and therefore, before any analysis of the development point of the country and before any environmental impact assessment; thirdly, because the government has taken a stand in the singular minimum by saying that « The airport is either in Montijo or there is no airport! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr Bruno Dias, as we know, the construction of the airport in Montijo raises serious problems, both from the environmental and mobility point of view, safety and also from the health of populations. In addition, if the process progresses, we will have an airport whose location — stop! — was designated by a multinational and not by the State itself. After all, the one who chose the place for the construction of the airport was Vinci. Furthermore, the Minister of the Environment, during the discussion of the Government's programme, said very clearly that it was not the government that chose the location for the construction of the airport. In our perspective, this is absolutely unacceptable, and it is all the more unacceptable as there are cross-interests, because Vinci is also the dealership of the Vasco Bridge of Gama, that is, it ends up winning on two fronts. And the worst thing is that this means that, rather than being the public interest, the guiding lighthouse of this process was the private interests that prevailed. But my request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, goes this way: when the government says that «the airport is either at Montijo or there is no airport», I would not say that this conditions the entities that have to give advice, but I know that this ends up pushing the burden, the responsibility, if there is no airport, for those entities. Mr President, I would like you to tell us whether or not you share the reading we do on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u159	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, there are several notes I would like to mention regarding Montijo airport. One of them necessarily relates to the fact that the Government is committing illegality when it does not carry out the strategic environmental assessment. We can agree, or not, with the construction of the airport, but law is law and we have to comply. It also seems strange that the construction of this airport does not appear in the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure, which necessarily has to be subject to strategic environmental assessment, and it is also considered normal for the Government to sign agreements on economic and financial principles, without knowing the result of the necessary environmental impact assessment, thus exerting enormous and unacceptable pressure on the administrative entity. In such a way that the first pages of the non-technical summary of environmental assessment, rather than referring to environmental impacts, are intended to identify the financial losses of the non-construction of the airport. There is no reference to environmental damage at any time. Now, I thought that the objective of an environmental impact assessment was precisely to assess environmental and not economic impacts. By the way, environmental values are not on sale, as they seem to be in the conditioned favorable opinion. Let us see if the millions of euros invested will not be sunk until, apparently, in the environmental impact assessment, the rise in water levels has been disregarded, as well as the fact that the planned airport is located in an area of high seismicity. Finally, there was no real analysis of alternatives to the construction of Montijo airport, and it is certain that Alcochete will not also be viable, since the same environmental problems remain, and so little has been put the hypothesis of the use of Beja airport, provided that with the construction of the necessary accessibilitys, even with a view to promoting territorial cohesion and the development of the interior. So, Mr Bruno Dias, I ask you what the CFP has to say about the possibility of extending airport capacity to be made using Beja airport. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u161	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u162	Madam President, I had asked to answer two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u163	You're right, sir. Members of different banks have failed to comply with the rule, including, as they should, during their intervention, and the Bureau has recorded two further entries to request clarifications. I therefore decided to divide the requests for clarification into two groups of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen — one in three and two — but if you prefer to start answering two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, or respond differently, please say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u164	Madam President, first of all, I would like to reply to two Mrs. Members and then three.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u165	So please, Mr Bruno Dias. You have the word to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. José Luís Ferreira and Mr. Cristina Rodrigues, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, there is indeed much to say about this problem and about this process and, therefore, we not only thank the question put as we also value, and we will hear with all our attention the political statement that the Green Party will bring to this debate. The decision-making process leading to this option of the current and previous PS Government, as well as the previous PSD/CDS Government, to build this apéadeiro in the current Air Base No 6 ( BA6 ), in Montijo, is itself a truly scandalous process. What is happening is the announcement by the Government of an option to locate the airport, which is chosen by the multinational, in a completely shameful way, without any transparency, without any clarity, to the framework of the instruments which the rule of law has enshrined and which have led to the adoption of a resolution by the Council of Ministers saying that the airport, in accordance with the comparative analysis carried out, must be in the Alcochete Shooting Camp. But today we are discussing what would appear to be the problems of detail, of compensation measures, of mitigation, whatever it is, when the CFP considers it essential to stress that the problem is strategic — that is the bottom line. This is a disastrous strategic option we are pointing to an option that consists of building a confeder in the current BA6, when the strategic environmental assessment itself was deliberately excluded at the start. The president himself of ANA Aeroportos, delegate of Vinci, Mr Thierry Ligonnière, explained to the Parliamentary Commission that there would be no strategic environmental assessment because the other alternatives were no alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u168	And we asked: “Who are they not? » For multinationals, of course! The fundamental alternative that needs to be put — which has been properly studied, analysed and completed more than 10 years ago — is why this is the solution that continues to be current and to be pointed out for the future — is the solution of the network use of national airports, using the current capacity of Beja Airport, which has much to give to the national economy and regional development. Portugal cannot go without an international airport for the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, and this, in fact, requires strategic vision measures for the future and necessarily implies phased construction, with expansion and development capacity, in the area of the current Alcochete Shooting Camp. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u169	Now, yes, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Government, in an unhesitating manner, would even call it a trickle and to « push with the belly», at the same time populist and electoralist, launches projects that do not emerge from the role, but which, with its indefinition, cause damage that severely affects the national interest. For the Socialist Party, what matters is to create the idea that, more day, less day, works will be done, but also that, if they do not take place, it is not because of their irresponsibility. The problem may even be from birds, environmentalists and, perhaps, even from the opposition itself. Of course they spend millions of euros on public record in studies, ending these investment projects without any return on Portuguese. They are useless works, badly designed and without any development strategy. As an example of this, in addition to this Montijo airport, we have the railway sector, whose trains fall into pieces, while the Minister says that investment in the railway is now that it is! It will also be like this with the metro circular line in Lisbon. A pharaonic project that, after burying 260 million euros in a 1700 m hole, the most expensive in the world, will not pass a car for tourists! But, Mr President, there are a few questions to which the Government must answer and which, past dozens of debates and matters of the parties' regulations, the Government never answers. In our view, the answer to these questions will give the notion of the size and public interest of this investment and if it makes any sense, or not, its execution. Therefore, we would like to know the opinion of the CFP. Mr Member, should the new airport be the hub of national air transport or just another airport? Should the Portela Airport be replaced in future, which will be disabled, or should both be kept simultaneously? Should public transport or duty-CL be given priority in access to the airport through individual and road transport? Should the future airport serve as an intermodal roundabout platform between various types of transport — air, sea and rail — or simply leave each mode of transport on its farm, not connecting?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u171	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u172	I will finish, Madam President. Should a serious bet still be made on the carriage of goods or not? Or is it not worth looking at this dimension? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government, besides not having a project, not to have a job, "has pushed with the belly" and it happens that it has not even defined a concept.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u174	I will finish, Madam President. We therefore consider that four years have been lost on such important issues as that of the Portuguese airport system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u175	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, the debate on the new airport has lasted since 1969 and in so many years of comparative studies, which have never identified Montijo as the best option, in a magic pass, all these years of studies have become a decision taken, signed, closed and without plan B. We are looking for the reasons for this fact achieved, without any historical basis, and are all bad: the option for Montijo is a short-term option, up to 2050 or, in the worst of the hypotheses, 2034 ; it is not a strategic option, because it is chosen only to increase the capacity of Portela Airport, quickly, i.e. the Montijo, with its environmental damage and for the populations, it does not happen from a side effect of the business decision between ANA and Portela Airport ; it is a limited airport, without possibility of expansion and which limits all the options of the future ; and it is a low cost airport, because ANA does not want to spend more than 1 cent of what is necessary to build a terminal on the Montijo and to ensure that the transport is made to 60 % by road, by Lusoponte, of which it is an shareholder, and therefore also wants to gain by that way, by putting that money into the stock, after the privatisation of ANA has been made the balance price. The proof that ANA does not want to spend more than 1 cent is that it has already come to claim from the few parks and cheap mitigation measures of EUR 48 million, which do not solve the problems, but are proposed by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency). This is an airport that will call into question the health and quality of life of the populations, and one of the most important estuary in Europe, and no comparative study has been done to prove that this was the best solution. A comparative study has not been conducted because this study would probably prove that Montijo has never been, nor will it be the best solution for the construction of an international airport and, above all, a comparative study has not been done to withdraw the possibility of democratic power to decide on strategic investment as important as an airport investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u178	I will finish, Madam President. This is a business of the central bloc, made to measure Vinci's profits, and therefore I ask you, Mr Deputies, if this is not a business that harms the national interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u179	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u180	Mr President, dear colleagues, allow me first of all to ask the PCP Member if we can identify this piece of paper. [[At the moment, Mr André Pinotes Batista displayed a newspaper clip.]] For I say to you, Mr, it is the 1968 Popular Diary. They were not distracted by other news, because what really matters is the part where you can read We are still waiting for a solution to the new airport in Lisbon. However, the Man went to the Moon, Woodstock was finally given, there was a myriad of developments and what was not a decision about the new airport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Let me ask you whether you let yourself be in the midst of the hesitation that there are public works that have no impact, that if there are impacts, these are not mitigable and believe that it is possible, or not, that we can develop our economy, by placing Portugal on the path of economic growth above the European Union average and also preserving the quality of life of people. We believe that it is and that this is a solution that, contrary to what you are. Members have said, it is good for the national interest, it is good for those populations. Because, Mr President, the "exhaustion of airport capacity" are not words that we just referred to. It is EUR 600 million that we would lose every year because of a lack of political decision! Also, notice that we talk about tourism, we talk about our economic development, and this is also important for people's lives, it is important for people's quality of life. More: jobs — the thousands of jobs — are said to be created directly, indirectly and induced are good for the economy, but also for the lives of Portuguese families. Mr President, this logic of a good APA and a bad APA, as the APA says, or does not say, what we want you to say, is something you cannot accept, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u182	The PCP cannot defend APA when APA defends what is in the PCP program and says that APA is no longer suitable when what is there is not what you want it to be there! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, let me also point out that most of the municipal chambers, most of the entities that have been heard, are in favour of the development of the country and are in favour of this investment. Mr President, in conclusion, I would return to the cover of the newspaper, with only one difference: as the 21st Government has decided and the 21st Government will realize, the only great novelty is that, at the end of 50 years, Portugal will not have to continue to wait! at the end of 50 years, our country will finally enter into development! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u183	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Silva, we have listened carefully, in his words, to the criticisms of the PSD to the current and previous PS Government. The questions which Mr has raised about this project are of the greatest relevance. In fact, it is so relevant and so relevant that we, for a few seconds, almost forgot that this is the solution the PSD defends.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u185	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u186	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u187	When we heard the relevant doubts and questions that Mr and the PSD here brought about, about this disastrous option of making that nickname in the Montijo Air Base, we almost forgot that it was even because of the options of the PSD/CDS government — not only the privatization of ANA Airports, as that option, which you have always defended, of Portela + Montijo — that things are today as they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u188	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u189	That is where we are today, in this fight to denounce the issues on which you now also want to appear as manifesting doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u191	This is your solution. And your criticisms today were not because of your location being here or there or because of your construction being made this or that way, it was because everything was done slowly, because you already wanted to have this built. Mrs. Joana Mortágua, the evaluation and comparison studies on the options for the new airport began in 1969, but until today there has been no evaluation, no technical study, nor any comparative study that defended, as a better option than any other, the option for location at the Montijo Air Base. Not one! The populations of the neighbouring municipalities, the populations of the south bank are now confronted with very serious impacts on their own health! And excuse coming the government, ANA — Airports from Portugal, Vinci or anyone who promises measures like double glass, facade soundproofing, whatever it is, because these measures are the same: facade! It is that there are no double glass that defends people, when they are on the street, in parks and gardens, or children, when they are in the courtyards of schools, recreation, etc. The situation of 24 movements per hour of overflight, in an area of great sensitivity such as that, is of course unacceptable and we will not stop reporting. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that ANA / Vinci is betting on a millionaire business, which is paid with the money of the airport charges and the exemptions and benefits it tries to obtain with this option, but is, above all, paid at the cost of sacrifice and suffering of thousands and thousands of people who are confronted with the imposition of a location with an impact on their life and their health, which would be entirely unacceptable and, moreover, avoidable. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say to Mr President of the PS André Pinotes Batista that it is very good to entertain himself reading covers of newspapers 50 years ago, but that he would do much better if he read something much more recent and even more current, which is the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 13 / 2008, according to which, after the analysis made by the National Civil Engineering Laboratory ( LNEC ), the Government — of the PS, at the time, decided to approve the LNEC report and concluded that the best solution was to build where? In the area of Alcochete Shooting Camp! [[PCP applause.]] Look at the readings you are making there, Mr President, because it is better to read the Journal of the Republic and the rules of the rule of law! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u192	For a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor. Allow me, Madam Member, to alert the different seats to the need to register, during the speech of the honourable Member, the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who want to make requests for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 'All the conditions created so that it can indeed be a good start of a school year' — in its original Portuguese, this was what Mr Education Minister said at the opening of the school year on 10 September. Tiago Brandão Rodrigues took the opportunity to say, in a reassuring tone, that in this school year, schools will have more than 3500 operational assistants. And what the government's propaganda sounds like! ... Unless, of course, if you are a director, teacher, official, student or head of education in a school such as EB 2, 3 Francisco Arruda, in Lisbon, or the Mem Martins Secondary School, in Sintra, or the Ramada Secondary School, in Odivelas, or the High School Infanta D. Maria, in Coimbra, or the Manuel Teixeira Gomes Secondary School, in Portimão. It is that these, like so many others, seem unable to materialise in effective staff the words of the Minister. Moreover, the Director-General for School Establishments has even been responsible for schools for the current situation, although she says, very convincingly, that the operational assistants will soon be missing. A brevity that has been dragged since 2016, even after the review of the portfolio of ratios. But the school year also started with other ads and news. In its Programme, the Government proposes, and I quote, "to create a plan for non-retention in basic education, working intensively and differentiatedly with students who reveal the most difficulties". Simply stated: the Ministry of Education wants to decree the end of lead until 9. the year, explaining that, with this, you will have an annual saving of EUR 250 million. Let's start with the easiest and least important: the accounts. According to the guardianship, each year 50 000 students are rejected, and each student costs the public system 5000 €. Now, once again the other and there comes to one alleged saving, which, in fact, will not exist in this magnitude. It is that the 50 000 retentions do not imply the formation of new classes and the hiring of more teachers. These students end up being included in existing classes and only residually are formed new classes with increased costs. This was a right-wing government and so much emphasis on euro would be the cause of accusations of « mercantillisation of education ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u195	But now I think they like to call this 'true accounts', even though they are cryingly wrong. Here it comes, I have to open a parenthesis, because we finally got from the Ministry of Education a reference for the cost per student in public school. Now, this must be the value to be used by the State in financing schools with an association contract; otherwise, they are either misleading these colleges or advertising about savings with the end of lead. When the parenthesis is closed, we are going to what really matters, to the matter of fact: decreeing the end of the retentions. The question is the opposite. What matters in education is that students learn. The school’s mission is not accomplished when a student spends a year, but when he actually learns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u197	Changing the order of things is to establish facilitation, which can do wonders by statistics, but is misleading and penalizing in what effectively counts: the present and future life of students. I mean, are we ferocious defenders of retentions? Of course not. The retention has, above all, a deterrent effect and is an end-of-line instrument, which must take place only when all strategies and means have failed with that particular student. That is the central issue. All students have to learn. Everyone can learn. Thus schools have autonomy and means to help each and every student in this process. And indeed this has happened, as evidenced by the decline in retention and withdrawal rates over the years. And it has happened thanks to the autonomy of schools, the path started in a PSD/CDS government. Now, it has hardly dried the ink of the announced autonomy and curriculum flexibility in Decree-Law No 55 / 2018 already the guardianship retreats, centralizes and, by decree, says that the retentions will end. Why does he not trust guardianship in schools to continue his work, which, in education, is always slow and has been producing results? Why does it not give schools the concrete means they need to be able to develop their strategies more effectively, in an environment of autonomy? Does the Ministry of Education believe that the result obtained by the six schools that integrated the PIP ( PIP ) Innovation Pilot Project — and that indeed reduced lead — is replicated only with savings announcements, but without investment and without ensuring prior conditions of effectiveness? We are not fierce advocates of lead, on the CDS. We're fierce students' advocates. That is why we stand out frontally against the misleading propaganda that inevitably transforms these ads: saving money at the expense of a generation that will pay expensive a government that wants to stay well in the statistics. The Minister of Education has disappeared a good part of the past year. He stopped being seen, stopped listening and became particularly good at that and so. He moved from one government to the next, in a sort of administrative passage. And maybe that's the only known case in which someone benefited. Let's stay for that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u198	In order to obtain clarification, five were registered. Members, to whom you have informed the Bureau that you will first respond to a group of two Members. Members and then a group of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, if at the end of the first year of schooling a child is not reading, will begin to have problems and thus start his cycle of failure. Most adults have the notion that we learned subjects, for example, in paragraph 6. the year, which today are materials of the 4. the year, but our level of cognitive development certainly did not have such a significant leap. It must be admitted that certain content is not in accordance with the respective level of cognitive and emotional development of our children and our young people. We know that, as a general rule, when a child does something well, a feeling of well-being is out of the question. The failure already causes stress, which often blocks the ability to reason. If the child is afraid to err, he is certainly not in a position to learn. The NAP advocates the creation of a transdisciplinary team that aims to analyze curricular programs, with a view to reducing content. Question : Mrs Deputy, will the CDS be available to follow the NAP on this proposal? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u200	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u201	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I greet you for bringing the topic of education to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. Madam Member, first of all, to mention the opening of the school year as the example of something that didn't go wonderfully well, because everything always has its problems, it doesn't seem to me to have been a very happy statement, coming from a party of the previous government, which was the true example of what it is to do the greatest trick possible at the opening of the school year. But finally... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Fortunately, nowadays, comparison standards are the effectiveness and competence in the opening of the school year, which the PS government has managed to do every year, year after year, and which will continue to do, because this is our standard of demand, and not the type of opening of the school year that you did when you were government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You are talking about education, but you are talking about little of the results, of what really matters. In 2018, the country reached the lowest rate of early dropout of education and training ever, a minimum history, never school dropout was so low. The honourable Member mentioned, in passing, the retention and withdrawal rates, which have been improving, after they have hesitated in a certain government, before the previous one, which we know. It's just that it doesn't come off chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u202	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u203	This results, Mrs. Member, from investment in promoting school success, from work so that schools are dedicated to which everyone learns more and better. And, yes, the gentlemen. CDS members and former CDS governors suffer from something that Prof. David Justino, as President of the National Council of Education, called a « culture of retention ». With the evolution of the debate, you have no reason to say here that it is necessary to return to the examinations, something that has not happened in any civilised country in the world but in Portugal — you have no reason to say that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u204	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u205	I will finish, Madam President. I would like to leave you a very specific question, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. With the enormous reinforcement that has been done in schools—i.e. in operational assistants, technical assistants, specialists, thousands—and without the precariousness that you practiced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u207	... the question I ask you is this: does it in any way enhance management capacity, to explain why in some schools there is a recurring focus on the lack of professionals and other schools, where this never happens, can it be managed so that schools work well?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u208	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u209	Finally, Madam President, with this very simple question: are we just trying to "shoot" more money and a greater number of professionals in schools, or are we going to face the real management problems that can improve the education system? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u210	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they're sitting on regiment time. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, do not hurt me, but, as I do not know the NAP proposal, I am not going to pronounce myself on her. Moreover, the position of the CDS on the subject of a curricular review is known. We understand that, before that, there must be a review of the teaching cycles and only then, eventually, a curricular review. I don't know if the «growth» is the best way, but a revision doesn't necessarily have to go through a «growth», it has to go through a thought made by scientific societies rather than by politics and politicians. We are not the ones who are able to make such an assessment. So this will come in time, and when the NAP proposal comes, we will certainly examine it. With regard to Mr Porfirio Silva, we can no longer agree with the fact that these are the results that really matter. I think your intervention is particularly interesting, for this reason: what we wanted to alert at this plenary session was, exactly, the fact that, with the measure of the Government, the result is irrelevant at least to 9. year. Mr Deputy, see if the transitions become administrative, all and any students will pass by the end of 9. the year...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u212	You want to learn, you don't want to learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u213	...and we'll stay in the dark on his way up to 9. the year, when, unless the PS has changed his mind, there's an exam. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The honourable Member is here to say that this thing of examination does not exist in any civilised country, but Portugal is a civilized country and has 9 examinations. year and 12. year. Unless you propose, with your bench or joining the Block, to end the examinations No 9. the year, there will be, yes, a test on the 9th. year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u214	You didn't understand the question or do you realize that you didn't?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u215	And it does not seem to us that extending administrative passages centrally, decreeing that no student can fall, is the best way to solve the problem of school failure, and then to drop rather than tortoise when they arrive at 9. the year or to fall on the 12th. year. That is why I told you—and if I had been careful I would have noticed—that, yes, in this decade there has been a continuous decline in the retention and withdrawal rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u216	No, it wasn't carried on in the technique!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u217	... that this has accompanied several governments, which has to do with measures implemented in the line of autonomy and never—never! — abdicating a culture of work, effort and examinations that allows to measure the work that has been done and the course of the students. Therefore, Mr President, to me the novelty of this debate is your belief that examinations are something that makes no sense in Portugal, so it will probably propose its end. I'll hold that and ask you in good time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u218	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u219	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Germana Rocha from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to begin by welcoming her on the subject that brought about today's debate: the chaos that unfortunately currently lives in the education sector. Every day we witness strikes and protests in schools due to the lack of employees, such as the EB1 of Vilarinha, in the Port, the School of Monte de Caparica or the School Manuel Teixeira Gomes, in Portimão, among many others. The school year started on September 13, we're in November, and every day it goes by, we have more schools to close. This is because, in the previous legislation and in four State budgets approved by management, in addition to having been unable to solve the problem, the government has still made it worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u221	The ghost of Christmas present talking about last Christmas ghost!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u222	The result that we have today is the following: students without classes; parents who daily fear for the safety of their children; students with special educational needs without adequate transportation, who wait months to wind up by the authorization of the Ministry of Education, as is the case of the Basic School Eugénio de Andrade, in port ; schools with teachers and technicians for placing and, even, teachers who have to take heaters and blankets to warm up; schools without the minimum of hygiene conditions, because the works have not moved forward, and in many or asbestos have withdrawn. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I think you will agree that we are before a lost legislature with regard to public services. More specifically, lost to the sector of education and public school, with the lowest investment in that there is memory, in which the government, supported by the left—now handwashing like Pilate—, limited itself to cheating, with promises and more promises, students, parents, teachers, directors, officials and the entire educational community. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u223	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u224	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the subject that is certainly present to us and, as regards the specific case of the lack of workers in public school, is indeed regrettable the situation in which we are living. There are schools to close from north to south of the country, students with special needs without proper transportation or follow-up, closed school support services and then the gigantic precariousness, exhaustion and low wages. A short time ago, a colleague of yours was talking about waiting for you not to come to the channel of history. Yeah, we're hoping you won't! Neither did the aliens build the pyramids, nor did the lack and precariousness of public school workers fall from heaven to tramples. At least since 1986, when not before, thousands of workers have been victims of promises to fulfill, as regards the resolution of precariousness and the lack of staff, of successive governments where precisely those who have counted on participation are included — imagine! — CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u225	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u226	My question, Mrs Deputy, is this: which of Jano's faces today assumes the CDS? To have sent 15 500 school workers to the street, between December 2011 and December 2012? Oh, my God! The government, which applied a 23, 6 % cut in the financing of basic and secondary education between 2011 and 2014? Oh, my God! The government, which reduced the ratio of assistants and administrative officers? Oh, my God! Mr Member, have you mentioned the quality of the teaching/learning process about non-retention, but do you think those measures all have any impact on what is the quality of the teaching/learning process? All the measures taken by your Government have destroyed precisely the quality of this process and, above all, not content with all this, have put the students to take national examinations in their heads. In fact, this is not the way, Mrs Deputies. The path that the CDS is proposing is not the one that will be the way of valuing the public school and its workers. It does not go through the current scenario, as it does not pass through the political practice of the CDS nor, in fact, through the PSD. Madam Member, what needs to be more investment, more workers with a stable bond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u227	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u228	More respect is needed for the rights of those who study and those who work in public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u229	They've been sleeping for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u230	... it is necessary to change the ratios of non-teachers. In fact, a completely different policy is needed. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We know that this is the proposal and practice, day by day, of the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u231	PCP's up now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u232	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u233	... but it is certainly not the practice, the day-to-day and the CDS proposal. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u234	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u235	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, in fact Portugal has the highest percentages of European retentions, but this runs counter to what has been the result of Portuguese students in various international examination bodies. What is similar to the Left Block is that in Portugal there is a retention culture that does not show significantly that students' learning will improve because of their retention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u237	It seems, then, that the non-retention bet implies that there is a greater public investment on the part of the Government, not only in more teachers, more assistants, more technical ones, in better learning conditions. in this sense, what looks like the Left Block is that Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa defends the idea that private education will be more prepared to respond to the multiplicity and cultural diversity that occurs in public school. In our view, this is not true, because whoever has this possibility is indeed the public school, provided he has the necessary public investment, that which, to which everything indicates, the CDS will want to divert to private education. Is that the hidden agenda? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u238	Mrs. Deputy has to start listening and not imagining it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u239	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u240	Madam President, I thank the honourable Members for the questions they have asked me and I would like to start by saying to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP that she has talked about many things and, in the end, she said that the appreciation of the public school goes through everything but by the students. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u241	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u242	It goes through precariousness, it goes through the teachers... what you didn't have in your speech was the students, which I can understand very well because we're already used to it! Madam Member, in this matter, I would also like to speak to you about teachers because, as to the six schools that were in a pilot project that now inspires the government to decree the end of lead, you know what the respective evaluation report says? It says that one of the conditions for effectiveness so that they can reduce retention is — listen well! — 'flexibility of teaching recruitment policies in schools which show that they have an autonomous and solid course', i.e. to end the centralised competition of teachers. Do you agree with the honourable Member? It just seems that this is the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u243	No, no. Maybe, you're making an observation to the side bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u244	Don't you agree? So maybe it's in favor of the retentions! We will have to resolve this dilemma when the honourable Member has an opportunity to read a report that, by chance, talks about students and not about other things. I also understand that he has accused all these sins of all governments « since 1986, when not before », as he has said, because the case of the CFP has never been in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u245	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u246	The only time he could have been in the previous government, but he didn't want to, and wash his hands off anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u247	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u248	Mrs. Deputy, that's easy! When people don't put their hands on the mass and spend their lives criticizing just because they do, it's hard to say bad about everything that's done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u249	Not being there, we did much more than the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u250	With regard to the Member of the Left Block, I am sorry, but in my speech I did not once say « private school ». I didn't talk about it, under any circumstances, but, since you're talking about it, I'd like to tell you the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u251	And the association contracts were with whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u252	The gentlemen. Members, who have made a war here because of association contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u253	We did and we won!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u254	... based on the fact that it was an income they were paying to the private sector today—and they should ask themselves, until they fail your own electorate! — in public school, each student costs 5000 €,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u255	It's already priced!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u256	... which means that, in public school, a class with 25 students will cost 125 000 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u257	Public school costs money, big news!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u258	And the cost of an identical class in a school with an association contract is €85 000. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] You have just noticed, with government data, that after all, the public school is costing more than €40 000 per class. [[BE's protests.]] I didn't say it was the government! In fact, I've had enough of saying, you guys didn't want to listen! So if you want to talk about private school or schools with an association contract, perhaps, the most serious thing was to use this argument to ask the government a question and to think if, after all, you haven't been wrong all this time and if you haven't been harming everyone, as now you'll be proposing the end of the 9 exams. the year and accept this immorality, which is the end of lead and the smooth transition to the end of compulsory education, whether it is learned or not learned. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u259	Continuing the political statements, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year, the National Day of Pay Equality will be marked on 8 November and, despite the advances that have been made in this area, there is still a long way to go and the numbers show it quite clearly. According to the Global Report on Gender Disparities 2018, produced by the World Economic Forum, proportionally, women participate less in working life and political life. Access to health, education and political power is also lacking. In practical terms, it will take more than 108 years to achieve gender equality and economic parity only 202 years from now. In Portugal, men earn an average of 22, 1 % more than women, based on the report A quantum leap for gender equality: for a better future at work for all of the ILO (International Labour Organisation ). According to the same report, in 2018, the number of women employed was 1,3 billion compared to 2000 million men, with the jobs of women in poorly qualified positions and with worse working conditions. Women also tend to be underrepresented in managerial and leadership positions, indicating that only 27, 1 % of managers and leaders are women, in addition to being more exposed to situations of deprivation of resources or poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the lack of equality is, we have no doubt, one of the structural causes for violence against women and girls and is based on the inconceivable prejudice that a human being is inferior to gender characteristics. Or is the simple biological question of having a uterus so decisive for our future? Oh, my God! Even with all the advances recently recorded, Portugal continues to be a country with notorious gender asymmetries. One of the areas in which these asymmetries occur is in access to public office, and a good example of this is that we are more women in this Parliament today — an increase that has only now been achieved with the existence of quotas — but still in a far lower number than that of men, which leaves us far from parity. Another revealing domain of the still existing inequalities is how we pay for work. In Portugal, equal work does not correspond to equal wages, even when data show us that there are more women today than men with higher education. In addition, a study presented this year by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation, entitled Women in Portugal, where the various dimensions of women's life between 18 and 64 years old are analyzed in a representative universe of 2, 7 million women, indicated that 46% of Portuguese women earn less than their companions, although they contribute financially with the same amount for family expenses. This fact places women, although active in the labour market and orderly, with very little independence. In addition to this reality, women have less time for themselves and their daily tasks, to which it is not beyond the average that they spend more than 50 % of their time on unpaid household chores, on an average of almost four hours a day and two hours away from home in cases, purchases, care or transport of their dependents. In other words, on each working day, women spend six hours on unpaid work, in addition to their paid eight hours work. Moreover, this week there have been several media outlets that have disclosed and pointed out that women in Portugal have to work more to achieve the same salary as men by the end of the year. It is, practically, as if — let us stop! — between 4 November and 31 December, women were no longer paid for their work. It is not surprising, therefore, that it prevails among women, even those with more experience in the labour market, the feeling that their career progression is more difficult, because most companies are run by men and they prefer to promote men to women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need legislation not only to be a virtuality in the role and that national plans and strategies have the necessary means to be applied more efficiently, so that the steps taken are more effective, particularly in matters as relevant as gender equality and non-discrimination and, above all, in combating gender violence. Gender equality is a redistribution of power and is a political issue. We do not delude ourselves, because it is a decision that belongs to all of us in this House of Democracy. As such, it is important to think about how we intend to take this path, ensuring the involvement of all, people and agents, businesses and sectors, in order to achieve true gender equality and ensure that no girl or woman is left behind. Wage valuation too is not a theme that can be left unique and exclusively in the hands of social dialogue. There must, in fact, be the allocation and training of the different professionals and employers, along with the necessary tools to ensure equal treatment and their wage recovery. from the NAP, we will continue to beat us to adopt the recommendations of the report of GREVIO ( Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) by Portugal and to ensure full and equal participation of men and women in the labour market and professional activity, combating wage inequality and adopting measures that allow greater reconciliation between family and personal life. We hope that the remaining political forces will accompany us. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u261	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the entries of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u262	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u263	You then have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u264	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PAN brings to the debate a matter of concern to the Greens for a long time. In 2012 we called for more supervision and action for equal opportunities between men and women in the world of work. The portrait of Portugal in the female depicted by INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ) in 2012 continues to be illustrative today: « Women are more and have greater longevity. They marry and are mothers (less children) every time later. They continue to be ensuring most parental follow-up licenses. The risk of poverty is higher for them, as well as the rate of material deprivation. (...) They integrate the labour market but have higher unemployment rates. They continue to be the main caretakers. Do not keep on seeking. ” The phenomena of gender inequality and discrimination are against social development, progress and the fight for equality. This reality is not based, from the perspective of the Greens, on an inadequate or insufficient legal framework to generate the desired equality. There is rather a lack of awareness and supervision that is conducive to the generalization of abuses and inequalities. Wage discrimination figures show that the same wage principle for work of equal value is far from effective and widely applied. The Greens reaffirm that we can have a magnificent legal framework, but if we do not have supervision that works as a deterrent to discriminatory practices and consequently adequate means necessary for their implementation, we will continue to do so. Don't you agree, Mrs. Member? [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u265	Mrs Catarina Marcelino from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and the PAN for bringing this issue to debate. This is a very important issue and what we are talking about over and over again. The diagnosis is made, but the truth is that this is a structural problem, which affects the country and the life of many Portuguese families. This is not a problem of women, it is a problem of society. This is a problem that affects many Portuguese families and affects people and families throughout the life cycle. Poverty has a female face and old age also has a female face. In Portugal, wage inequality affects children, families and elderly women, who have less discounted and therefore have lower pensions. As it is a structural problem, we have to act on it, but this action has been delayed. In the last Legislative Session, several laws that help in this area, such as the law on equal pay, which does not define intentions but defines mechanisms for combating wage inequality, the law of parity in business boards and also Programme 3 in Linea, of the Government, which concerns the reconciliation of family life and working life, which is the core of this issue. As the honourable Member has said, the time that women spend on domestic chores strongly harms them in their professional activity. And today is an interesting day for us to discuss this issue, because it is the day when, in social consultation, we began to debate the increase in the minimum wage, which, as we know, helps a lot on this issue, because most people who receive the minimum wage are women. Madam Member, this is not a problem of the NAP and the PS, it is a problem of the country, it is a problem of everyone and therefore I think that social dialogue is the place to start this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u267	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u268	I will finish, Madam President. Madam Member, I would like to ask what is the commitment of the NAP to discuss this issue not only on the day when it is brought to debate in European terms, but every day of the year, because this is a scourge that we have to fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u269	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u270	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Silva, first of all, the NAP obviously agrees with the need for more supervision, but does not want us to stay there. This is a structural problem, as Mrs Catarina Marcelino pointed out, in fact there is a substantial work to be done, particularly in the field of education. In fact, in this context, we have not seen the educational references be changed, so that they are appropriate to the need to ensure, from an early age, an education for equality and non-discrimination, alongside other fundamental issues that the NAP defends. Mrs Catarina Marcelino, the NAP obviously accompanies the need for a dialogue with social dialogue, but she thinks we should go further. In other words, this is not a measure that must be a government commitment rather than the other political forces. We will be there to accompany you and to defend this matter, but we must not forget that we must be ambitious. I recall that OECD data ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) argue that a single parent family would have to have an average order of €1300. Therefore, we are far from the fundamental needs of, for example, a woman with a child in charge in Portugal in matters of minimum order. There must, in fact, be a differentiated effort not to leave this issue in the hands of social consultation alone and to give the necessary tools so that employers can value the right to family, the right to personal life, through other mechanisms. Not everything in the life and quality of life of families is income. This is a very important component, but there are other subjects in which we hope they will accompany us, namely the extension of parental leave and the distribution of parental rights. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u271	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, first of all, I would also like to greet Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and the PAN for bringing the debate to this issue, which, as I said, and well, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, is not a left or right issue, it is not a subject of this or that. This is a theme of society and therefore calls us all. As the honourable Member said, on November 4th, we noted the Day of Pay Equality, which is exactly the symbolic day from which women cease to be paid for their work, compared with their fellow men, until the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to reflect. It is about two months—it is not enough, but it is almost — that women work for free compared to men. Of course, this represents an unacceptable structural inequality with which the PSD will never conform. The same work, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it must always be equal pay. This has been the subject of our concerns and we all have an obligation to mobilise society for this purpose together. The factors underlying these inequalities are multiple: women are the ones who work most part-time, are the ones most confronted with the "glass ceiling" in companies, are the ones who work most in sectors where wages are lower, are, as has been said, the ones who assume, as a rule, the primary responsibility for providing care to the family, most often at the expense of their professional career. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a matter with such complexity requires a consistent, comprehensive, concerted and daily approach. Words and beautiful intentions are not enough. The PAN has recently come to this discussion, but the PSD has a hard job and a heritage...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u273	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u274	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, the PSD has a hard work and a heritage, such as the introduction of wage transparency measures in companies, the promotion of scientific studies to know the phenomenon, the awareness of self-regulation of companies. Mrs. Member, over the past four years, the NAP has enabled the budgets of the Socialist Party. I wonder if you are available to do, together with us, a serious job or if you will continue in your spirit...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u275	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u276	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. Madam Member, I wonder if you will continue in your ecological spirit, making everything possible, and then "knock your hand on your chest" because these matters have been left behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u277	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u278	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it is true that wage inequality between men and women is one more of the gender inequalities that continues to be solved. We live in a country in which nearly half of the workforce is made up of women, but in which women continue to be, often as we all know well, the only ones responsible for domestic tasks and for caring for children and their descendants. We know well how this imposes on them a double or triple working time. They are therefore the ones who have to miss the job most, but who spend more hours working. They are therefore also the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. It is not difficult to see how this reality limits, to a large extent, the possibilities of career progression and rise to higher hierarchical positions, but also the possibilities of academic and professional investment, public and political participation. These contributory, interrupted and low careers also reflect on reform. If wage inequality between men and women is at present almost 16%, it is almost 40% when the retirement age is reached. We know well and of the 165 thousand people covered by the 70 % solidarity supplement are women, which shows how women are really the poorest. Madam Member, we ask whether we do not agree with the Left Block when we say that combating gender inequality is not the only reason for isolated measures of positive discrimination in relation to gender inequality and gender wage inequality, but because of a structural change in labour relations and the strengthening of labour rights, the increase in national minimum wage, the fight against precariousness, the repeal of the amendments, which were adopted in the previous legislation, the Labour Code, the formalization of care through the provision of public and universal childcare networks, the fight against the abuse of the use of temporary work and the deregulation of working hours. We consider that for structural problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u279	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u280	I am concluding, Madam President. As I was saying, we considered that for structural problems only really structural responses too, which alter the whole panorama to act on all fronts and not only with sectoral and isolated measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u281	To respond to requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u282	Madam President, I shall first respond to Mrs Sandra Pereira. Madam Member, we are grateful for the concern shown about the subject, but I would like to say that this is not a recent concern of the NAP; on the contrary, the NAP is a feminist party. In the past Parliament we had a single Member... and we do not have the short memory: we know the effects that the troika has brought to our country likewise in these matters, which also have repercussions on poverty and gender inequality. So we are not here to make political propaganda, but to move our proposals forward to the country. The position of the NAP has been that of, constructively and dialogueally, making forward what are the causes that form our idea. With regard to the very concrete questions you have raised, as well as the questions put by Mrs Sandra Cunha's Member of the Left Block, the NAP argues that, indeed, this is a matter which not only lacks a structured response but also, in a cross-cutting and inter-ministerial manner, to advance consolidated policies on gender equality, starting precisely at the time of the Budget, in order to have budgets sensitive to gender issues, which is something that has not happened in our country. There should also be wage valuation, not only through negotiation in social dialogue, but also from other tools linked to other policies, such as the right to rest and the appreciation of shift workers. In fact, there must be another package that also looks at informal caregivers, in which, mostly, there is still a gender issue, since most caregivers are female. There must therefore be transversal policies that can in any way help to combat what has been a profound inequality. It is not enough to choose isolated policies—that we fully follow the Left Block—so we will defend in this Parliament what we consider essential, which is, through these measures, the empowerment of girls and women. That is our desire, and that is the goal we commit to. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u283	To give the last political statement this afternoon, Mr. José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the Portuguese airport concessionaire, controlled by Vinci, has chosen Montijo for the location of the construction of the airport; after all we know that this economic group also holds the concession of the exploitation of the Basque Bridge of Gama, thus allowing with the airport at Montijo, this multinational to be won on two fronts; after knowing that there is no study indicating the Montijo as the best solution for the location of the airport, both from the point of view of the development of the country, and from the point of view of the population and the environment; after all terms the notion of the serious environmental impacts that this location represents for the ecosystems and also for the health of the populations and after the Government has said that there was no plan B—or the construction of the airport was in Montijo or there would be no airport — the Portuguese Environment Agency has issued a declaration of environmental impact conditioned to the construction of the airport at the location chosen by multinational Vinci. In the words of the president of APA, the various entities involved in the evaluation process found a balance point to enable Montijo airport. In other words, what happened in this assessment process was to accommodate, from an environmental point of view, a decision that was apparently already taken, because it was either in Montijo or there would be no airport. But after all this, the fact is that the government is still in time to avoid a monumental error in terms of development and a crime from the environmental and orderly point of view of the territory unprecedented in our history. The government is still in time to realize that we are talking about building an airport and not installing any kiosks. The government is still in time to hear the populations, the generality of environmental associations and even scientists. The government is still in time to meet the noise levels that will affect the populations of Lavradio, Barreiro, Baixa da Banheira and which extend to Quinta do Conde, with serious consequences and thus enhancing the risk of cardiovascular diseases, the loss of learning of children, problems of sleep disturbances, respiratory problems, among others. The government is still in time to take into account the high impacts on the ecological systems, on the avifauna, on the habitats and areas of refuge for birds, many of them, in fact, with protection status. It is time to realize that the impacts of the construction of about 300 m of runway in the sapal zone contradict everything that needs to be done, especially when we talk about climate change. It is still time to look, with eyes to see, at the potential danger that this work represents at the level of water resources, both underground and surface. But the government must also realize that the construction of the airport in Montijo is not a solution to the central problem, and the central problem is Humberto Delgado Airport. The main environmental organizations such as Zero, GEOTA ( Land and Environment Planning Study Group ), LPN ( Nature Protection League ), SPEA ( Portuguese Society for Birds Study ) and others point to gross failures in impact assessments. However, a set of eleven Portuguese scientists came to warn of four serious failures in the airport study, namely: complete omission of the study on greenhouse gas emissions from the flight phase and its impact on the road goals for carbon neutrality, compromising its compliance, of course; errors in the risk analysis of the rise of the average sea level and the omission of the analysis of various scenarios in the face of climate change; gaps and omissions of the seismic assessment, in particular because it was assessed in the light of a completely outdated regulation. After what happened in Lisbon on 1 November 1755, seismic evaluation must have an important role in defining spatial planning strategies in order to mitigate the risks, which naturally means leaving the most vulnerable places and not occupying them. Finally, it refers to the underestimation of the high risk associated with tsunami flooding and the absence of assessment of their vulnerability, combined with the rise scenarios at the sea level. But Portuguese scientists are not alone in this analysis. In fact, an international study on areas in the world at risk of rising from the sea level, carried out by several researchers, points out exactly the same. And the subject was even highlighted in the international press, as was the case of El Mundo, which notes in bold letters entitled For climate change — The Portuguese Government from green light to a new airport in Lisbon that could flood before 2050. It is true that the government has not yet given green light, and that is why the Greens are calling on the Government to abandon the construction of the airport in Montijo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u285	It's very good for the airplanes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u286	On behalf of the people, on behalf of the threatened environmental values and on behalf of the public interest, the Government is still in time to withdraw this claim. Otherwise, we will have an airport whose location was chosen by a multinational, where they cross interest, with the increase in traffic volume at the Vasco da Gama Bridge, whose exploitation is given to the same multinational that chose the location of the airport. A infrastructure with the size of an airport may not be subject only to the interests of either Vinci or any other large economic group. Public interest must be called for decisions of this dimension and of this nature. The Greens therefore advocate a Strategic Environmental Assessment that allows us to evaluate various hypotheses so that we can compare which least environmental damage causes. In summary, there is a need to ensure the presence of the public interest in this process. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u287	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, three Mr. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u288	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u289	You have the floor, firstly, to ask for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the subject you have addressed is recurrent in political declarations. I would naturally like to thank you for bringing the debate, because it is an extremely important issue for the country. I should like to begin by saying that, with your intervention, by insinuating, in a more or less explicit way, and by somehow refusing the location of the new airport in Montijo for purely environmental reasons, it simply indicates not only that it is against the location of the airport, but that it is against the entire environmental regulatory building in the country. As I think you know, APA's functions are very clear. And if you take a quick look at its website, you will see that APA has certain functions, including as a national pollution control and prevention authority, a national environmental impact assessment authority and a national strategic environmental assessment authority, among others. In other words, what happened in the last few days was a positive assessment of APA, with conditionalisms—some said conditionalisms of little importance, but conditionalisms of EUR 50 million—which allow to mitigate the effects of environmental impact. One of the questions that might perhaps be asked is what location you know that does not involve any environmental impact. at the end of 50 years of debate on dozens of locations, it seems to me more or less obvious that this matter has not been clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u291	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u292	Mr President, given the constraints already mentioned and taking into account the limitations that the airport of Lisbon has, I ask you if you think that the country can continue to wait, continue to lose tourists, continue to lose revenue, continue to lose wealth, continue to lose job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u293	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u294	These are the questions that need to be answered, because it seems clear that, at the end of 50 years and many possible locations, we are in time to move forward, decide and not continue to hesitate, because today we are all aware of the costs that the country has already had for having hesitated throughout these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u295	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u296	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we have indeed appreciated the contribution that the Greens Ecological Party's political declaration brought to this debate on airport network options. As we have come to draw attention, a strategic vision of development in the civil aviation sector is at stake, and it is indeed a crucial issue of strategic choice not with regard to mitigating measures or compensation, but, rather, with regard to the development of the sector, which does not respond with the option by a confectioner or by a terminal bolt on an air base. Also on the table are land planning policy issues, because today we have an airport in the centre of Lisbon that Vinci and the Government want to continue to overload with unparalleled levels in our history, either from the point of view of the impact on the population, or from the point of view of the aviation risk itself in relation to the city and the region. But what do you want to do with Vinci and the government? They intend to keep this big airport in the center of the city and add a second airport in the center of the metropolitan area! I ask you, Mr President, if you know any case in the world, in the world! — where this is happening. The strategic option that has been developed all over the world is the creation and construction of new airport infrastructures outside the urban centres, outside the major metropolitan centres, for safety reasons, for environmental reasons and also for people's quality of life, for the impact they have on the health of thousands and thousands of people, but also on safety issues. So, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the question that the CFP is asking is whether or not the Greens consider that, in addition to the fundamental issue of defending national interest in the concrete option of the strategic vision for development, we must essentially put on the table the question of defending our country's right to sovereignty and development, which also means facing the interests of the multinationals of the sector, facing the power of economic groups and placing in political debate the question of the reversal of that criminal privatization and ensuring that ANA - Airports and the management of the airport network return to democratic public control? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u297	Mrs. Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u298	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I begin by greeting The Greens on the subject they brought here and by stressing that, in the midst of all this, there is a clear conclusion to be drawn that the location chosen for the new airport/appetizer could not present any further problems. This is one of the 10 most important wetlands for bird conservation in the European Union and, in addition to the environmental attack it represents, the risk of bird collision with aircraft cannot be ignored. It is a residential area with more than 35 000 people living in low-construction houses and for which no effective measures are provided for in relation to the impact of noise. It is an area in which access routes to the new airport cross water protection and catchment zones of an aquifer that supplies precisely the populations of Montijo and Alcochete, so the risk of water contamination is real. Several national and international studies identify the risk of flooding in this area and therefore this new airport until 2050. It is not to the point that since 1992 there have been no authorised airports in estuary areas and, at a time of intense climate change, the establishment of strategic structures for the country should consider these risks rather than considering only private interests. It has already been said here that there was not, nor is there, plan B because this was a decision taken not on behalf of the population or national interest, but on behalf of the interests of a foreign private company seeking a gold business at the very least possible cost. We ask whether in democracy it would not be possible to choose the best solution among many, rather than impose the worst possible solution on the people, who have to eat and shut up. Portugal needs a new airport, it is true, and everyone has expected impacts on the environment and on the populations. But shouldn't we choose the one with the least impact? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u299	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u300	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party, Bruno Dias, of the Portuguese Communist Party, and Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block, I begin by thanking the questions they asked me. Mr Carlos Pereira, it is not merely environmental reasons that lead us to reject this solution. I do not know if you have heard what I said in my speech, but perhaps even I have focused more on the lack of public interest in this process than on environmental issues. Therefore, it does not devalue environmental issues, because they are important, and that is why the environmental impact assessment is done, which is not little, it is also important to say that we are talking about a location that was chosen by a multinational according to the interests of this multinational. In other words, the public interest in the location was absolutely absent. I do not know if you have noticed that the Minister of the Environment has told you here, for whom you would like to hear, during the discussion of the Government Programme, that it was not the government that chose the location. We already knew it was the multinational, but it was the first time we heard a government member assume it. The question is, therefore, more of a public interest, more of a development, without prejudice to the appreciation we make of environmental issues. Mr President, of course, no location is environmentally innocent, and much less is when it is the private interests to send and not the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u301	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u302	That is why we are in favour of a strategic environmental assessment, because, contrary to what Mr Environment says, which makes a more vague assessment, it is the only assessment that allows us to compare alternatives to see which is best. What happened in this case was that the multinational chose the site and then APA did what the APA President himself said, that is to say, they set a balance point to accommodate the effects to the location. Mr President, let me tell you that, at the end of 50 years, it is a long time, it is half a century, we do not have a single study to say that Montijo is a good location. At the end of 50 years! [[PEV and PCP applause.]] And I also tell you that anyone who has been waiting for 50 years is better than waiting for more than two or three than to make the mistake that the government will make with the location of the airport in Montijo. Mr Bruno Dias touched on the wound, which is the following: one of the problems of this process—and that is why I recently said that the process was born wrong—is that the government, when it made the agreement with multinational Vinci, joined the two processes, that is, this process is dependent on the expansion of Humberto Delgado Airport and is therefore all conditioned. Mr. Carlos Pereira, this decision does not solve any problems, because the central problem that is the Humberto Delgado Airport in Lisbon will maintain-CL with the airport in Montijo and therefore no problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u303	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u304	Mrs. Sandra Cunha, it is true that in the place where she is, this could not be a choice with more problems. In fact, no matter what other choices they made, there was one that, from an environmental point of view, brought more problems. And when we talk about climate change we stress that they are incompatible, because when private interests speak higher things are more complicated. Now, as the honourable Member has said very well, there is no plan B, this may not be conditional but it throws responsibility or burden of not having a work for those who have to give an opinion in terms of environmental impact assessment. Therefore, in our perspective, the choice of the best location must be that of a strategic environmental assessment, which is what we defend. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u305	Mrs. Members the second item on the agenda, to which no discussion time has been allocated, is contained in the Draft Deliberation No. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees. We shall therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. I ask the services that prepare the electronic record so that we can register and then vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see through the system that the Members are absent. Deputies Jorge Costa, of BE, Ana Paula Vitorino and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of PS, Pedro Pinto, of PSD, and João Pinho de Almeida, of CDS-PP. There are, therefore, 225 Members present, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u307	Mr President, we are in voting time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u308	Mr President, I tried to call on the Bureau a few minutes ago, but you did not give me the floor at that time. Thank you for doing it now. Mr President, I would like to get an explanation on the following: if each orange point, as the electronic system indicates, corresponds to a member of the PSD present, it does not agree with what is indicated electronically with the Members who are actually present. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that in the first row...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u309	Thank you, sir. I already realized, in any case, as I have already identified who is absent, because of the difference who is present. In the meantime, Mr Pedro Pinto of the PSD has entered the Chamber and there are only four absences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the Bureau not be requested during the vote. Let's start by voting vote No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Delmiro Carreira. The President of the Assembly of the Republic shall associate himself with this vote. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last October 25, at 73 years of age, Delmiro Manuel de Sousa Carreira. Intransigent defender of workers' rights, especially banking workers, has indeliblely marked the Portuguese trade union movement. Delmiro Carreira had a remarkable political and trade union course, standing out in the fight against dictatorship. In 1976, he was elected to the Constituent Assembly, having voted on the Constitution of the Republic. He was also a member of the I-Legislature, a place he took up again later. Born on February 14, 1946 in Belas, Sintra, Delmiro Carreira entered the bank still a child, at the age of 11, a profession that never left until retirement as a banker. As a trade unionist, from early on Delmiro Carreira has marked the fights of banking workers. In the Union of the South Banks and Islands, he held several positions, notably he was president of the Board for four term of office, from 1997 to 2011, and was one of the first to defend the need for the renewal of generations in the governing bodies. With its transforming vision and social concern, he undertook the creation of the Medical and Social Assistance Service of the bankers, that he was President of the Management Board, and subsequently the creation of his hospital, whose quality in the provision of health care and innovative equipment has always been recognized. He participated in the Open Letter Movement and in the foundation of the UGT, giving a very important contribution to the confirmation of the union power plant as a democratic alternative. He was a great advocate of dialogue and social dialogue. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Delmiro Carreira and addresses its relatives, friends and institutions to which his condolences were shared. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to Vote No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of José Maria Andrade Pereira. I request Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Maria Andrade Pereira was born in the parish of Travankinha, municipality of Seia, on June 7, 1936, son of Henrique Gonçalves Pereira and Arminda of Jesus Andrade. The widow and father of two children died last October 29th, a victim of prolonged illness. José Maria Andrade Pereira began his professional career as a teacher of 1. the cycle, at the same time being formed in law by the Faculty of Coimbra. He practiced counseling and, subsequently, the judiciary always with a mark and a personal unit that characterized him as a professional of humanist treatment and of recognized sensitivity, leaving no indifference to the people with whom he crossed. He has held various public and political positions, from which they stand out to have been elected deputy to the Assembly of the Republic in the Third Parliament by the Electoral Circle of the Guard and in the Fourth Parliament by the Electoral Circle of Vila Real, both by the CDS, Civil Governor of the Guard, Vice-President at the Municipal Chamber of the Guard and Director-General of the Technical Secretariat for the Electoral Process. He joined the CDS in the first years after his foundation, having held various positions, both at the level of council, in Sea, both district, in the Guard, and also at the national level, where he stands out as President of the National Council, Vogal of the Commission Directive and member of the Senate. Throughout his life, family, professional or political, he was always guided by the defence of the values he believed in, making them a constant in his thoughts and actions, which resulted in being a citizen by all respected and by many admired. For the above, the Assembly of the Republic decides to pay due tribute to José Maria Andrade Pereira, expressing its deep sorrow and dismay for its disappearance, and presents to the family its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u313	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and L abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the two votes that we have just voted on, we will hold a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the Draft Deliberation No. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we finish the session, I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the extensive dossier she has entered the Bureau in the last few days. Since its disclosure in plenary is mandatory, only today it is possible to account for the initiatives accepted. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following bills: No 1195 / XIII / 4. a ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative) — Repeal of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 35 / 2008 of 29 July ( Approves the agreement of the second amending protocol to the Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; point 1 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognize children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence as victims of this crime( 6. the amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims and 47. the amendment to the Penal Code) ; paragraph 2 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — It makes it mandatory, in cases of domestic violence, to collect statements for future memory of victims( 6. the amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims) ; paragraph 3 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Law of Nationality and the Rules of Procedure of the Registers and Notary( 9 ). the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and 34. the amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -a / 2001 of 14 December ) ; No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, falling to 1. the Commission ; paragraphs 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; paragraph 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code by establishing a system for the impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and by setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages, which goes down to 5. the Commission ; paragraph 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the exemption from moderate rates until revocation ( 2 ). the amendment to Decree No 113 / 2011, of 29 November ), which goes down to 9. the Commission ; No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the police condition, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the permanent financing scheme of the Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport, which falls to 5. the Commission ; point 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle, eliminates the expiry of collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements (16 the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ; No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; paragraph 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces lower than 11. the Commission ; point 13 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Structure of the organic structure and the form of management of protected areas, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 14 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extend the National Rent Balcony and re-appropriate the special judicial clearance procedure( 7 ). the amendment to Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, as amended by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August, Law No 79 / 2014 of 19 December, Law No 42 / 2017 of 14 June, Law No 43 / 2017 of 14 June, Law No 12 / 2019 of 12 February and Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February – New Urban Rent Scheme ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; paragraphs 15 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services, which falls to 1. the Commission ; paragraph 16 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the sustainability factor and restores the legal age of reform to 65 years; No. 17 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work arrangements; No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improving the allocation rules and amending the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit; paragraph 19 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Appreciates long-term contributions, ensuring access to pension without penalties and regardless of age, to workers who complete 40 years of discounts; No. 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of penalties to workers who have already acceded to the early retirement pension, which fall to 10. the Commission ; paragraphs 21 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Alter to Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February in part concerning the timing of the removal of asbestos in buildings, installations and public equipment, which falls to 11. the Commission ; No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows which fall to 12. the Commission ; No 23 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines the Government's preparation of a climate report, prior to the submission of the State budget, with a view to its submission to the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 24 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines the preparation by the Government of the annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal, prior to the presentation of the State budget, with a view to its presentation to the Assembly of the Republic ; paragraph 25 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of super-intensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei, which falls to 7. the Commission ; paragraph 26 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the right to reduce working hours for the purpose of breastfeeding, breastfeeding or accompanying children up to the age of three years, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and proceeds to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November and 1. the amendment to Law No 3 / 2009, from 13 January, which falls to 3. the Commission ; No 28 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Enhancing the criminal framework for crimes committed with violence in schools and their surroundings or against the school community ( 50 ). the amendment to the Penal Code ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Reduction of the IRC rate ( Amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; paragraph 30 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 31 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Extends the scope to new labelling products for foods containing transgenics which fall to 7. the Commission ; and paragraph 32 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Visa the strengthening of seismic resistance of buildings, which goes down to 6. the Commission. The draft Rules of Procedure No 1 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in order to ensure the fair and proportionate representation of all political parties, which goes down 1. the Commission. The following Resolution Projects were added to the Bureau: No. 2 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government increase the national minimum wage to 650 € on 1 January 2020, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — It proposes measures to ensure universality and free access to daycare for all children up to 3 years, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary programme for the hiring of health professionals for the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission ; paragraphs 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the financing of all applications deemed eligible in the Support Programme for Biennial Arts 2020 - 2021 and the urgent review of the model of support for arts, which falls to 12. the Commission ; paragraph 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate recruitment of all educational action assistants and administrative assistants necessary for the regular operation of the public school, which falls to 8. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41, A42 and A29, which is awaiting scheduling ; No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25, which is awaiting scheduling ; No. 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls at A23, which is awaiting scheduling ; No. 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls on A24, which is awaiting scheduling ; No. 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing the tolls on the Way of the Child, which is awaiting scheduling ; No. 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops do not benefit from public support which falls to 7. the Commission ; point 14 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — About the dredgings in the Sado estuary, which is waiting for scheduling; No. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to extend ADSE to all Portuguese, whether or not they have a working link to the State, which falls to 9. the Commission ; paragraph 16 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt all the measures and procedures necessary to resolve the problem of delay in processing, award and payment of various social benefits, including old age and disability pensions, survival and other death benefits, which falls to 10. the Commission ; paragraph 17 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a revolution in vocational training so that it adapts to new times, which decreases 10. the Commission ; No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, when exceeding the maximum response time guaranteed for first consultation of the National Health Service, ensure users the freedom to access such consultation at any other hospital to their choice, whether from the public, private or social sector, which falls to 9. the Commission ; and paragraph 19 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in A22 / Via do Infante, which is awaiting scheduling. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u315	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. It was really a very extensive list of files. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow afternoon they will take possession of the various standing parliamentary committees contained in the draft deliberations we recently adopted. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to inform the House of the timing of the takeover of the various committees. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that, by the decision of the President, the Committees shall take office tomorrow, 7 November, in the following order: 1. the Commission, at 3 p.m. ; 2. the Commission, at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes ; 3. a, 4. a, 5. a and 6. a Commission, at 3 p.m. ; 7. a, 8. a, 9. a and 10. the Commission, at 15 hours and 30 minutes ; and 11. a, 12. a, 13. a and 14. o Commissions, at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-06.u317	Mrs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that next Friday there will be meetings of those committees and that the next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 13 November, at 3 p.m., having as an agenda the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 26 minutes.]]
