ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the authority shall determine the opening of the gallery doors to the public and Mr Duarte Pacheco shall inform the Chamber of the diplomas which have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr President has admitted draft resolutions Nos 2229 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote specific measures for the protection of the mountaintop and tabletop, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2230 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — by creating a special career of clinical psychologist, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and 2231 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — by creating the special career of nutritionist, which goes down to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u3	The agenda for today is marked by the PSD, subject to the theme « Difficulty in access to health for citizens ». To open the debate, Mr. PSD Member Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, said this week that there is an investment of more than EUR 1600 million per year in the National Health Service ( SNS ) than in the previous government. The Minister also said in an interview, and I quote, that "there are 11 800 more health professionals, which represents an increase in staff spending by 25 %". I ask this House: if there is more money and more professionals, why is the National Health Service worse? Why do hospitals say they have fewer professionals available than in 2015? Why do all indicators show a degradation of the quality of health care in Portugal? Why do patients expect more and more time for consultation, surgery or examination? There can only be one answer: if there is more money, if there are more professionals and the SNS continues to deteriorate in view of everyone, then only one thing may have failed, the government has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u5	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u6	He failed the government, and failed at various levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u7	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u8	You failed the government in day-to-day management of our National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u9	That's not what the Portuguese say!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u10	In addition to being unable to give autonomy to hospital administrations and health centres, the government finds ways to captivate health budgets, which is why we are in June and two thirds of public hospitals or program contracts have for 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u12	More: the government and failed because it disinvested in the National Health Service. over these four years, they were promising investments in needed areas and in the State budgets, one after the other, always approved with the enthusiastic support of the Left Block and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u13	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u14	... were included money for this investment, allowing until Mr. Prime Minister came to say, to the four winds, that he never invested so much in health. But, year after year, after we looked at the execution of these same budgets, we realized that the rule was that of non-investment, while the money was systematically below 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u16	More: he promised the government that he would invest in new hospitals and in the modernization of others. Not one thing or another, nothing happened. Let the populations of Algarve, Alentejo, Seixal, Lisbon, Coimbra or Viseu say so. In four years, after so many promises, not a new hospital came out of paper. It is appropriate for the government to say: look at what the government is budgeting, but do not look at what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u17	Look at the rearviewer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u18	The government failed, not realizing that health professionals are the structural pillar of the quality of the SNS. Over the course of these four years, from doctors to nurses, from pharmacists to health technicians, they are all revolted by the successive lack of consideration that they have been targeted. There is no memory of so many strikes and such social tension in the public health sector—and 2019 already promises to beat all records. It is a government that does not bet on its professionals, nor does it plan any of its needs. Now we see the case of the rotating closure of the motherhoods of Lisbon. It's enough for health professionals to start taking their normal summer vacations and the system goes into collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u20	And what does the government do? Start by hiding that information. And after the information becomes public, it shows an absolute lack of preparation in all its interventions. They weren't closures, but they are already. It was only temporary closures, but at least they will remain until the end of summer. There were no obstetricians available, but suddenly there were obstetricians everywhere. It is the modus operandi of this government: they invest in the SNS in the hope that no one will notice; if they notice, they start with the media spin and change the situation temporarily until no one is looking again. And the patients, the pregnant women, who stand by. in essence, we are before a government that has failed in health, because it is a government that has failed people. The Portuguese despair before the unacceptable waiting times for consultations, surgeries or even for simple diagnostic examinations. Even patients with no emergency intervention, as is the case with cancer patients, have no response, literally wait. The figures are: 34 %, one third of cancer patients in this country, in need of priority or very priority surgery, do not have access to this intervention at the maximum guaranteed response times. They are treated, when they survive, beyond the clinically acceptable times. The government has failed in the essence of its mission, because it fails every day with the most vulnerable citizens and in greater suffering in our country. Consider the case of continued care or palliative care, which practically stagnated in its evolution. Even in the face of increased demand and need, the government simply did not invest. People who depend on the public health service and have no other resources can do anything but wait. And wait. And wait. And despair before a SNS that doesn't respond to your most basic needs. in reality, the only ones to whom this government has never failed, to whom this government has never missed have been to private health services operating in our country. [[PS Members' laughs.]] The private have never made so much money with health in Portugal. Money made on account of the failure of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] In front of hundreds of days waiting lists, what do the patients do? Whoever's got the money, he's using the private. Even citizens with few resources end up spending their savings parks, or even lending, to solve in private what the SNS, paid with our taxes, cannot do in good time. The government pushes these citizens into the private sector, while dismantling the National Health Service, transforming it into a kind of box for the poor and the needy. For all this, the words of the Minister for Finance are shocking. Faced with this degradation without memory of public health in our country, Minister Mário Centeno had the opportunity to say, and I quote, that « SNS is today better than it was in 2015 ». [[And it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u21	It is absolute unconsciousness of this ruler. Today, there is no family in Portugal who does not have anyone in their social environment who is not suffering from the degradation of the National Health Service. He is a minister who manages the SNS finances sitting behind his computer, clinging to Excel leaf. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Therefore, with these statements by the Minister of Finance, today it is better understood why the government has failed so loudly in health. Those who don't go to the ground, those who don't talk to the sick, those who don't listen to the professionals, may never know the difficulties of the citizens, nor how to govern the country properly. Only thus does the Minister of Finance, who speaks to the country in excess of the budget, understand not that the money collected and stored in the public safes was obtained cruelly from the health, well-being and life of the Portuguese. The PSD has been calling on the Government to establish an emergency rescue plan for the SNS. However, instead, from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance remains in a state of denial. For them, health goes very well! For the Socialist Party, the SNS was never better. You don't need better management, you don't need more investment. And socialist governance is this... making it clear to all that, with the PS, we can't count on anything else at all. The country urgently needs to change its course. We need to invest more and better in health. We need a government that assigns a family doctor to all Portuguese. Today there are 700 000 citizens who have no access. We need a government to ensure that all consultations, all surgeries, all complementary examinations are carried out, in time and time, not exceeding the clinically acceptable limits. We need a government that is committed to investing significantly more and better in public health policies, without which we will not be able to reduce the burden of the disease or ensure the sustainability of the SNS. We need to bet on promoting people's health and well-being and not just the reaction to the disease. We need to take mental health, active aging and the protection of the most vulnerable as priorities. We need to invest in informal caregivers and home care and we need to invest in continuous, palliative and end-of-life care. We need a government capable of promoting the humanization of the National Health Service and of valuing the one that is the biggest active of the SNS, its professionals. basically, we need a government that works for the interests of our citizens and takes the health of the Portuguese as a priority. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a government that governs. For the sake of our health. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u22	In order to obtain clarification, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite informed the Bureau that he would reply, together, to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then also together, two other Members. Members and finally a Member. Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I confess that when I found out what the content of the PSD schedule was, I thought we would finally have a formal apology from the PSD for the situation in which I left the National Health Service. I also confess that I was wrong. [[PSD protests.]] It is that talking about difficulties in access to the National Health Service is about infrastructure and equipment, costs in access and human resources. And what did the PSD do between 2012 and 2015? He weakened the SNS, gave strength to the private sector! What did the PSD do? The PSD has invested in equipment, infrastructure and human resources, increased access costs with moderate rates and patient transportation. That's the legacy of the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] Let us see what the Socialist Party has done in the past four years, Mr. Mr. Deputy spoke of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. So, Melgaço and Caminha tell you something, sir? There were two institutions which had continuous care units completed, ready for the citizens, but which were like 'plastic bags' because they did not have permission from the previous government to function. Now, the Socialist Party solved this problem. We went down a little further, to the Braga district, and we found that the work of re-qualification of emergency service at the Guimarães hospital has been waiting for 20 years. We go to Bragança and see what the investments were in the hospitals of Bragança, Mirandela and Macedo de Cavaliers. You have not implemented them, but they are in progress, they are executed by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] More: we're going to Vila Real, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, where we have a linear accelerator at Vila Real's oncological centre ready. The gentlemen have done zero in Vila Real! And we can also go to Porto and the rest of the country to realize that it is a lot of the investment of the Socialist Party Government in this sector. With regard to moderate rates, you have increased them and we have lowered them. With regard to the transport of non-emergency patients, we removed the injustice that you had imposed on many and many Portuguese, withdrawing access to such transport, i.e. guarantee them less costs and better access. But there are also more professionals in human resources. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have "showed the street door" to professionals from many hospitals and services that have been left without human resources, we reject this fundamental capital to improve citizens' access to these services. Therefore, Mr President, today's data on assistance, production and access are clear. We have, as Minister Mário Centeno says, a better National Health Service for all Portuguese. Is everything okay? Of course not. Is there much to be done? Of course I do. But there is one thing that the Portuguese demand, that you have not done and I ask: are you in a position today to finally apologize to all Portuguese for the state in which they left the National Health Service? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u24	Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I would first of all like to congratulate and greet the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party on the subject which it has devoted to today's debate. in the initial intervention, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite said, and I quote, "we cannot count on the PS for anything". This is in contradiction with what Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has said outside the plenary, in particular with regard to the opening and negotiations that the PSD is doing with the PS for the basic health law. Now, I believe that saying that it doesn't count on PS for anything, but then saying that it's negotiating with PS a basic law that is structural for the National Health Service and for health to lie - a little bit. In contrast, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, in plenary, with Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, outside the plenary. I believe that the great question to which I should answer is the following: after all, it counts with the Socialist Party for what? We know that the Socialist Party seems to be counting on the Social Democratic Party to keep public-private partnerships unchanged in the law of bases, to have the chance to maintain public-private partnerships. What is asked is, then, what the PSD is doing in this negotiation with the Socialist Party, therefore it does this negotiation with the Socialist Party and, after all, it has something on the side of the Socialist Party. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Access to health, I tell you already, does not become unique and exclusively with negotiations on public-private partnerships. In fact, if the discussion on access to health is limited to public-private partnerships, it will be a terrible service that will be providing to users. And I'll tell you why. Because, for example, you know what the monthly monitoring report of the North ARS List of Inscriptions for Surgery ( Northern Health Administration ) says, which refers to March 2019? He says that Braga's public-private partnership is the worst hospital in the North with regard to access to health. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] It also says that 42 % of the cases considered to be very priority are dealt with outside the maximum time limits, 29 % of the cases considered to be priority are met outside the maximum time limits, 35 % of the cases considered to be normal are met outside the maximum time limits, and so on. Above the average of all public hospitals in the North region.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u26	That's a lie! It doesn't mean that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u27	So I don't know if this negotiation between PSD and PS is just about this idea of protecting public-private partnerships, protecting the economic groups behind them, or something else. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, the question is: what does the Socialist Party's PSD expect, and what negotiation is this that it has with the Socialist Party to save public-private partnerships? If, indeed, what binds the PSD and PS are only public-private partnerships, I ask what is here on the table. It's a business, just? Is it a business that, at the end of the legislature, came to join these two parties? What is it, sir? Elucidate the House on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u28	I just wanted to tell the House that, in the meantime, there was a small change. There were more entries from Mr. Members to ask for clarification from Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from five to nine, and the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has given the Bureau an indication that Mr answers by groups of three, which, of course, the Bureau has accepted. Therefore, instead of giving Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite the floor to answer the first two Members, as I had initially mentioned, I am going to give the floor to Mrs Galriça Neto, from the CDS-PP, to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the PSD on our re-debate the issue of health, but unfortunately, and I deeply regret it, for the worst reasons. The honourable Member has drawn a portrait that is painful and difficult to hear. It is especially painful for Portuguese people who, on every day, have no early access to quality health care; on every day, they see their treatments and the follow-up of their delayed oncological situation; on every day, they have delays in surgery; on every day, they do not see an effective priority to health care, an effective priority to the well-being and working conditions of professionals, in particular the professionals of the SNS, who this government has derailed and who, with great patience and resilience, have been able to move forward. In any case, the conflict that has been dragged, through the ineptness and incompetence of this government, throughout the legislature is in sight. We could ask you about a huge set of situations, because the concern is great, the government's incompetence is even greater and a very, very problematic set of areas are being discovered. The CDS has always talked about the issue of fragile and vulnerable patients, particularly those who may be in a situation of chronic illness and terminal disease, in the end of life, who should deserve other kind of attention from this government. But no! Just because you referred to the continued care, I would like you to help us clarify, in some way, whether it is effective priority to the continuing care, as the Socialist Party Member has yet said, to have a waiting list of more than 1500 people for these units. [[Protests by PS Member Eurídice Pereira.]] I wonder if it is an effective priority to have debts of more than €1 million and €100,000 to the units, which hinders contracts and compromises the quality of care, and whether it is an effective priority not to make updates, as in fact they have undertaken to do since 2017 - 2018, with debt amounts amounting to more than €5 million. We understand that, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health is not an effective priority for this government. What I am asking the PSD is if it is not too far away the incompetence, ineptity and lack of vision of this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u30	You now have the floor to answer, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Deputies Luís Soares, Moisés Ferreira and Isabel Galriza Neto for the questions that ask me. In fact, the Socialist Party comes to make an intervention on investment in health and then, by trying to consolidate its own intervention, says « it is an investment, it will happen», but it has not yet happened. « It is in progress», but it has not yet appeared!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u32	It's almost there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u33	It's an investment that's almost, almost, but we're not there yet! But for the year it is, they say, in the next legislature it is! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] This is not going that way anymore, sir! Listen to the Portuguese know well, the patients know well what the result of socialist health management is. Therefore, the honourable Member replied to what I said: they invested less than what they promised. You were actually budgeting with the support of the Left Block and the PCP, but when the time came to execute, the Portuguese saw nothing. Then comes Mr Deputy, desperate to find arguments, talk about moderate rates. We must remember this: who has exempted 1, 4 million Portuguese from the moderate rate during a financial crisis that you have brought to Portugal? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It was the PSD! It is now, at the end of the mandate, that you are trying to solve the issue of moderate rates!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u34	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u35	In fact, no one forgets that when you were a government, Correia de Campos wanted until patients who were hospitalized in hospitals paid moderate rates,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u36	... they wanted to moderate access to hospital admission. [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]] You spoke to the honourable Member in human resources. It's, in fact, impressive, because everyone says the same thing. They say they are more than 11 000 health professionals hired for the National Health Service, but no one knows where they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u37	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u38	You have to go to the hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u39	We look at the professional list and there are almost 2000 professionals missing to be able to have the number of working hours equal to 2015. More: in 2021, on account of your policies, we will have 4000 doctors without expertise, and you did nothing to prepare that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u40	And also on account of your policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u41	More: Mr. Members promised, through the government, that they would end the use of professional doctors, what the CFP said was precarious work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u42	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u43	In 2015, we spent EUR 80 million on jobs and last year spent EUR 104 million. You should be ashamed, Your Honor! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u44	Mr Moisés Ferreira, I just wanted to tell you that, in fact, four years back, the policy of the Left Block is reduced to three words: basic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u45	That would be five words: basic health law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u46	Because you didn't defend anything else. Up to the end of PPPs (public-private partnerships) are inconsistent because, when we look at the 2018 State Budget, there is a approved PPP with the favorable vote of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u48	And as for the private ones, we're talking. Privates have never made as much money as when you supported this government during these three years. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, what the country needs is more investment in critical areas, where populations suffer, as I said, and well. in the area of palliative care and continuous care, what we see today is shameful. Only in palliative care do we have just over 100 beds, when we need to have between 800 and 1000 beds, and this government has done nothing over this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u49	PSD and CDS have never substantiated the law of palliatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u50	Madam Member, what we need is not that you come here with apologies, but, yes, that you rule. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u51	We then move on to the second round with three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I have to start by asking you the following: with all these crumbs, how does it justify the negotiations with the PS on the basic health law? You are indeed masters in disguise. That's what they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u54	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u55	Your concern is not with the health of Portuguese, much less with access to health and with the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u56	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u57	Your great concern is with the profits of the private—that is your real concern. For PSD what matters is the health business, we have no doubt about it. So, for the PSD, how much worse! The PSD does everything to weaken the SNS, to discredit it and to pass on the idea of its absolute inefficiency. But if the SNS goes through difficulties—and it is true that it happens, we never hide it and put forward proposals to correct them! — it is a consequence of the right-wing policy that you defend, that you have imposed and that the current government has not completely broken. Your impacts on the functioning of health services are in sight! They are seen in the waiting lists for surgeries, in the unacceptable waiting times for examinations, in the delay in conducting consultations and in desperate care in emergencies. Still, we can say that much has resisted the SNS to such great and violent offensive that it has been targeted by successive PSD/CDS governments and also the PS, which opts not to correct the situation and not to take effective measures. Despite this, in our SNS, in which the Portuguese are very confident, high quality and safety can be guaranteed. in the SNS, they are excellent professionals to whom you have frozen careers, to whom you have reduced the value of quality hours, to whom you have increased from 35 to 40 hours of work per week,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u59	...which, fortunately, by proposal and intervention from the CFP, was able to reverse. You, as good annihilators of the development of health professionals voted against, so it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u61	But they also voted against the CFP proposals at the end of the moderation rates, voted against the end of the PPPs, voted against the amendment to the criteria for the allocation of transport to non-emergency patients, which would allow more transport to those who need it. The PSD votes against everything that improves Portuguese access to health. [[PSD protests.]] You have no problem harming people for the benefit of the economic health groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u63	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, Portuguese can only expect more attacks from the National Health Service and its professionals. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Milk, take it! It assumes, once and for all, here and today, that the PSD strategy is to weaken the SNS. Is that what you want? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u64	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I have listened very carefully to you and there are three previous notes to me. The first to tell you « welcome to the club», because finally in this legislature, the PSD has agreed on health problems. [[PSD laughter.]] It's true! The second note is to record the disembarkation of the honourable Member, because, in view of what the previous government has done in the field of health, come now to say what it says is in fact a very important step forward. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Thirdly, I would like to note that when I see the Member so angry and in such an aggressive tone with the PS, I am imagining how the negotiations or arrangements of the new Health Bases Act should take place. Mr. Deputies, it is true that things are not right. Access to health care by Portuguese continues with serious problems, which leads us, in fact, to say that the state of health is not recommended. On this point, Mr President, I think it is also fair to say that health problems are not new, they are not problems now, the PSD has only woken up to them in this legislature. The health problems already come back because, in fact, the underfunding that the National Health Service has known, over several decades, from various governments, were from PS, PSD, or more recently from PSD and CDS, certainly has a significant weight in the current health situation, particularly depending on the previous government, PSD / CDS. As we know, it was four years of clearly indistinguishable and, I would say, inseparable guidance on an ideological line that called into question the access of Portuguese to health care, the access of users to the National Health Service, having had, in fact, not only short but also medium and long-term repercussions, as we are seeing. For example, it led to a widespread and obvious lack of human resources in the National Health Service, in hospitals and in primary health care units. The honourable Member referred to the words of the Minister for Finance. I will also use the words of Mr Finance Minister to say that I agree with him when he says that things today are better than they were with the previous government. But that wasn't difficult! In view of the state in which you left the National Health Service, any thing would be better than what the previous government did about health. Therefore, the comparison cannot be made between this government and the previous government, because this is incomparable. The comparison must be made between what the government is doing and what the Portuguese are entitled to. And I will say why the comparison cannot be made with the attitude of the previous government: it is that the previous government, the PSD / CDS, of health had only a petty accounting notion unable to see in a patient anything more than a source of expenditure and waste. It was a government that had only a short and reliant business vision, because it was unable to see in a hospital more than a book of debt and there was. Therefore, the comparison must be made with what the Portuguese are entitled to. He did not mention, and I feel obliged to remember, what the previous government did: the closure of health services throughout the country; the reduction of beds and health professionals; the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals, which actually reached all limits with the previous government. I remember, for it to be registered, and why it is important to say that, by the hand of the PSD/CDS government, health has lost more than 7000 professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u67	We can say that the current government is hiring little, but we also have to say that the previous government fired 7000 professionals. So, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, the question that I leave you is very objective and also demands an objective return: in the perspective of the honourable Member, the passage of the previous government has contributed, or not, to the current state of health? And I am speaking about the lack of human resources, bearing in mind that the previous government spent four years lay off health professionals; at the level of Portuguese access to health care, since the previous government spent four years closing down services throughout the country, and even the Minister of Health said that it was closing up services to improve Portuguese access to health care!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u69	at the time, I even recommended that you put a plate in the closed services to say that they were closed to improve health services! And I am also speaking about the situation of health professionals, because the previous government has also spent four years cutting rights to health professionals. So I ask you with all your objectivity: did the previous PSD/CDS government, in its perspective, contribute or not to the current state of health?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u71	I now give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I begin by asking where you were in the last government. If there was any difficulty in access to health was when you were government. There was a total de-investment, a blackout. The National Network of Integrated Continued Care, which joined the home care network, defined completely. They are central networks to support dependent populations, poor populations, elderly populations, populations that need access to health care. Would you like some examples, Mr. Deputies? Those presented there are not correct examples. The integrated continuous care unit today has 90 % of the population within the Centre area, 1, 5 million inhabitants, according to data from the first half of 2019. There are 600 professionals involved, 6000 people with care at home, where they need it. There are more 142 beds, 65 boarding units, 66 domestic teams, with 846 seats. That's what people need! This is what people are having. If you don't understand it, if you haven't noticed the importance of these numbers yet, come from there, come with us inside the country, to see how things work there. [[PSD laughter.]] For family health units in 2015, there were 90,000 patients without a family doctor in the Centre area. Today it is 40 000, with a reduction of 45 %. The family health units were 87 in the Central area ; now there are 114, with an increase of 24 %. So we're talking about access, we're talking about people's betting. This is what this government is doing. And if you have any doubts, go to the country centre, talk to the poor populations and you will realize that health care is being guaranteed in your own home. [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u73	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. In reply to Mr John Dias, I must say that there was, in fact, some hope that the Communist Party, by being part of a government, could bring all its promises of decades and that they would finally be realized. But it was the disappointment, it was the failure. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] After four years, we have promoted a debate on access to health, on the difficulties people are experiencing, and the focus of the honourable Member is a basic law that will not solve any problem. I say more, Mr. Member: if Mr. Member, whom I know, is a nurse, why don't you say a word about nurses? Why don't you talk about something that's expensive to you, what are family nurses? There were 35 pilot programs to create family nurses, and you're all done! You, along with the Socialist Party, did not allow these programmes to continue. You know, Mr. Member, when he talks in careers, it is very curious because, when we look at the history of the National Health Service, it is very clear that it was the Social Democratic Party that created them and, in the last government, with all the difficulties, unlocked them. If we're moving forward today, it's still thanks to that. [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] In replying now to Mr. José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party, I welcome you because, in four years, it is the first time you ask me about health. Welcome to the debate! Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u75	I always talk about health!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u76	What you say is particularly relevant, in fact, in what Mrs Elza Pais has said here, which is primary health care. It is, in fact, the honourable Members. Members are part of a coalition that has promised to end difficulties in access to the family doctor. [[It's true! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u77	They said that all Portuguese would have access to the family doctor, but today there are 700,000 Portuguese without access to the family doctor. You promised to invest in family health units, but they open fewer family health units than in the time of financial assistance—you can only imagine! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] And the professionals, where are they? Today, in working hours, we have less than we had in 2015! You should be ashamed, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Elza Pais, we can talk about the country center, we can talk about the interior. But let's talk about Viseu. Where's the cancer center? He's hiding there in the middle of the woods, where's the badge you put? No one knows about him. [[PS protests.]] with regard to home support, in terms of response, all numbers have been reduced. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, replying directly to your question, about where I was in the previous legislature, I wanted to tell you that I was on this bench, supporting a government that was recovering sovereignty, and I do not forget where Mrs Deputy was : in a government that led us to bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u78	We now move on to the third round of issues, all of them from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. The first will be put by Mrs Eurídice Pereira, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, so much gesture, so much fun! We're not afraid of comparisons! I repeat: we are not afraid of comparisons! [[P.S.'s applause.]] My two colleagues who spoke earlier had already had an opportunity to give him notes on the North and the Center of the Country. I am going to tell you about the Lisbon and Tejo Valley area, because there are also positive results here, a territorial area that has more than 27 % of the Portuguese population and where you have applied the usual revenue: deinvestment. The starting point they left for this legislature was very, very confusing. I would like to say the following: in terms of primary health care — I am making comparisons between 2015 and 2018 — there are another 270 000 users who have become a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u81	A reduction was made to 170 000 users without a family doctor, plus 200 000 consultations were held in 2018...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u82	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u83	...and it takes almost half a hundred processes to build new health centers. You can already go to some of them, because the works will be finished and some are already finished. If that's the case in primary care, let's talk about hospital care. In 2018, obviously compared to 2015, there were approximately 85 000 consultations. I am talking to you about Lisbon and Tejo Valley, the area that you always say has no answers, or that the answers are incapacitated, but in the last two years there have been more than 18 000 hospital emergencies and outpatient surgeries have increased by more than 4 %. I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that despite more assistance, the profits with moderate rates have decreased from 2015 to 2017 in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region in the order of EUR 4 million. On this point, I ask you the first question: does this tell you something, Mr President? It certainly tells you — the cut we made in the moderate rates in terms of percentages and the increase in exemptions. I would like to ask you the following: is it true or not, Mr President, that if they had done more in the time when they ruled in the last government, the starting point would have been better? [[PSD protests.]] Is it true or not that, in this way, these good indicators would be even better? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u84	Mr Norberto Patinho has the floor now of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, today we are witnessing the continuation of an unwarranted and unwarranted negative and alarmist speech, which has supported the intervention of the PSD over the past four years in my district and in my region. Contrary to what the PSD intends to transmit to people, in the Alentejo and in the Evora district, the numbers show a completely different reality from what you intend to characterize. There are better results in primary health care, where, between 2015 and 2019, the number of users without family doctors has been reduced to almost half. Despite the great difficulty in fixing doctors in the region, there was an increase of 52 medical professionals between 2015 and 2019 and an increase of 100 nurses. in the hospital of Évora, a reality that I have been closely associated with, and contrary to what they intend to believe, has been given a very positive response: more surgeries, more consultations, reduced waiting times. It is a reality that, as much as it costs you—and it costs you! — must not be contested. These results have been achieved despite the brutal disinvestment carried out by your government,... [[PSD protests.]] ... either in human resources, in buildings, or in equipment. They interrupted the construction process of the new central hospital in Évora and withdrew it from your objectives. In the current Community framework, no money has been made available for its implementation, but they have not made any investments in current installations either. In terms of investment, reality is very different today. They are in progress, completed: a second hemodynamic room and the remodeling of the pediatric urgency of the hospital of Évora ; the high-resolution clinic and the remodeling of all the imaging equipment of the hospital of Beja ; the construction of the new urgency of the Hospital do Litoral Alentejano ; the construction of the health centers of Ourique, Vidigueira, Crato and Nisa ; the preparation of the contest for the construction of the new central hospital of Alentejo, which is due to take place next July. Mr President, if, as you have stated, they have always wanted to build the central hospital of Alentejo, as is justified by the fact that in Portugal 2020 they did not include any money to finance its construction?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u86	Of course! That's the one! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u87	I ask you, Member : how many times the PSD Members have met or contacted the hospital's board of directors to find out about the problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u88	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u89	...to understand any difficulties,... [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u90	... suggest solutions, manifest discontent or simply show willingness to build solutions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u91	To make the last request for clarification to Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, Mr. Luís Graça, also from the Socialist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, often there is a big difference between the policy of the case, the policy of exploitation of pain and other feelings and the issues related to the recognition that there is still much to do to improve the SNS and to have the SNS that both the Socialist Party and the Portuguese want and want. I remember, as you spoke about accessibility to the National Health and Algarve Service, the President of the City Hall of Loule and the President of the City Hall of São Brás de Alportel are sitting at the door of the basic emergency service, clearing up the affairs of the chamber, because, Mr. Depute, they had no doctor climbing. They were, days, day after day, without a doctor climbing in the basic emergency service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know, Mr President, despite the many difficulties that we have to face every day in the Algarve, and that your medical colleagues are beyond a single dedication, we have reorganised the emergency service. And despite having today more than 20 urgent patients per day at the CHUA ( Algarve Hospital Center ), the average waiting time is less than that mentioned in Manchester screening. CHUA production increased by 10 % per month in the first five months of 2019 in scheduled consultations and surgeries. In 2019 the CHUA did even more than 9000 consultations than in the previous year. Also in basic health services the response improved. The number of family physicians assigned to the algae increased by 27 % in Barlavanto and in the Central Health Centres ( ACES ) Central 24 %. Of course we have a lot of problems in the Algarve. We have problems, of course, because we have immense pressure from the private response, due to the existence of 10 private units in the Algarve. One question I put to you, because it has to do with what we are going to discuss in the next few days is whether you agree...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u93	Mr. Luís Graça, do not hurt the distraction of the Bureau, but it has already far exceeded the time it had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u94	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I ask you if you agree that the public sector has to have a strong leadership in the SNS and is available, then, to review the law that says the State should favour the private, because in the Algarve they are crushing the National Health Service. This was the question I wanted to ask you about the Algarve region and about the future of health in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u95	Mr. Luís Graça, your bench has made me note, by gestures, that the time you used resulted in a accumulation of time allocated to the Socialist Party's Members, rather than the counting of time has been made from zero for each one. I therefore apologize for the call of attention I have made. In reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite of the Social Democratic Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u96	Mr President, Mrs Eurídice Pereira, I thank you for your questions. In fact, it is important to talk about starting points, as I said, and the starting point of the previous government was to pay your bankruptcy. of that, we all remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u98	We also need to look at the data and in fact, when we look at the data of the Health Regulatory Entity ( ERS ), only in 2017, compared to 2018, the number of complaints increased by 20 %. So, Mrs. Member, this says everything about what you live!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u99	We are not the ones who have the "full boxes"! Do you remember the 'full boxes'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u100	However, the honourable Member did worse: she came to talk about the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley. Has the rotating closure of maternity leave not been sufficient for the honourable Member? Oh, my God! Have you not been able to do the hospital of All Saints? Is it not enough, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! The urgency of what is being lived in Garcia de Orta and in the pediatric service of Estefânia, which is currently at risk of closing doors, is it not enough, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! We're talking about waiting times and people. Madam Member, when we look at the data, the truth is that people are waiting more and more, particularly in priority and very priority situations. And it's not any waiting time, it's beyond the maximum guaranteed response times, beyond the clinically acceptable. This is not acceptable, Your Honor! Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party spoke about Évora. In fact, the first question to ask is this: where is the promised new hospital?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u101	That's right! [[The gentlemen have stopped him!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u102	It had not been the warmth of the Alentejo, well they had suffered more the patients with the cold water of your hospital! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u103	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, excuse me. I would particularly like to thank the sides of the Social Democratic Party and the Socialist Party for creating conditions for the honourable Member to be heard, because I myself find it hard to hear it myself. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u104	Mr President, I appreciate the interest in the debate. Mr Norberto Patinho, I repeat: if it had not been the heat of the Alentejo, the patients had gone much colder at the hospital of Évora, where even the hot water was missing! The truth is that Mr. Member, when he came to talk about the investment in Évora, said: « There will be, in June, a new urgency, a new pediatrician, imaging...! » Everything comes in, but it's just next! When are you coming? After the elections! these four years, they haven't done anything! I shall finish by addressing Mr Graça, who spoke of everything less than the case which has been more mediated. It says it is a case situation, the case of a patient who was not treated in time and whose woman — the widow, because she died — was not even contacted to this day by the hospital administration! If you think this is humanization of health, I don't identify with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u105	Don't do that! It's so bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u106	Mr. Deputy came here to talk about the orthopaedic service in the Algarve. Mr President, with a waiting time of more than 1000 days for consultation and hundreds of days for surgery, social insensitivity is unbelievable! The honourable Member also asked: "The Democratic Social Party assumes that the public sector should be primary and should be the centre of the National Health Service? » I say - yes, sir! What I expected from the Socialist Party, which is always beating hands on his chest, was that he had built the new hospital of the Algarve, because they are promising it, government after government, and never did. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the stage of the talks. Before giving the floor to Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, he asked the parliamentary groups to make their registrations because the only inscription that the Bureau registers is precisely that of Mr António Sales. You have the floor, Mr. Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is any topic that the PSD can speak with ownership, it is undoubtedly that of the difficulties of Portuguese access to health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u109	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u110	The PSD well knows how it left the country in this area in 2015. We have no pleasure in remembering these times of bad memory, but of course we accept the challenge that we face with responsibility. Access is the function of demand, assistance production, available resources and funding in all sectors. So, let's talk about access to the SNS. Primary care: in 2015, there were 1 million Portuguese and 300 thousand without a family doctor, i.e. 13 % of Portuguese without access to a family doctor; in 2018 we had 96 % coverage rate, 31 million consultations carried out in primary care, payment of transportation to non-emergency patients, oral health programmes and visual screening, increase of non-emergency consultations by 1, 5 % compared to 2015. Hospital care: in 2018, we had more than 600 000 consultations and 30 000 surgeries than in 2015, an outpatient rate of more than 8% than in 2015, maximum response times for observed surgery compared to 76% of the patients and an increase of 3.5% in the first hospital consultations. Continued care: more 1500 places than in 2015, creation of continuing mental health care places for adults, children and young people, favorable evolution of the number of agreements and beds contracted in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more and more, more! It gives more access, because more demand means, today, more care production, more resources available and more funding. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, equity in access is the principle that guides the distributive functions of the State, with the aim of compensating and overcoming the individual inequalities considered socially unjust and avoidable. Therefore, this PSD initiative is an ambush, an attempt to isolate situations, attempting to encourage a distance from reality, avoiding a global portrait and analysis, in favour of surgically chosen excerpts, in order to produce election results. Estéril demagogia and electoralism prosaico! This is once again an exercise of opportunism of the PSD, taking refuge in snapshots that are not representative of reality and that intend to induce a perception that does not sympathize with comprehensive global truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u112	As the date of the elections approaches, the demagogic frenzy of the PSD increases every day and the political acts with which it seeks to remain in the crest of the media wave are multiplied. What, then, does the PSD want with today's legislative debate? On the one hand, they make harsh criticisms, without strategy, no solutions, no proposals, no ideas — nothing new! — and, on the other hand, in a strange way, they try to mimic initiatives and ideas of the Socialist Party. Sounds like it to me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the PSD, as always, looking at the empty medium cup, no longer hides the disguised collage it intends to make to the good measures and priorities announced by the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister in relation to the area of health, to maintain in future legislatures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the effort and awareness of the improvements made, look to the future with a desire to do much more: more and better quality in public services provided; more and more motivation of professionals; more and more user satisfaction; strengthening in areas such as mental health; priority to home hospitalization; health promotion and disease prevention; aging policies; policies to integrate different levels of health care; investment in areas such as telemedicine and new technologies; attractive careers for professionals and investment in training; timely access to patients, with clinically responsible and socially acceptable response times for consultations, examinations and surgeries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with two major challenges: demographics and inequalities. It is focused on these priorities that we will have to obtain the broad and necessary parliamentary consensus. If we don't, we'll miss an opportunity and the Portuguese will never forgive us. This is where we finally find a purpose for this debate. They're available, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to put the partisan aside, forget the elections and help improve Portuguese access to health? Say, no wheels! [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Are they available to strengthen the SNS? Here's your chance! Are they available to pass a basic law that we all recognize is better than that which is in force? Take your responsibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u113	Mr António Sales, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Mrs. Members to request clarification and was informed that they intend to answer together. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr.António Sales : « The country knows well how the PSD left the National Health Service in 2015. » This was a phrase recently given by Mr.António Sales from the rostrum. It is true, we know that the Budget has decreased EUR 1000 million over four years, that the number of professionals has decreased by 4400 over five years,... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... and we also know why all this destruction caused by the PSD. We know how the PSD left the SNS in 2015 and we know the motivation behind it. In fact, they never hid them, that is why we have to be honest, and why PSD policy is not for the SNS but for the private. Therefore, it is more for the private to take advantage of the budget of the National Health Service than for the construction of a National Public Health and Public Service. The question is the following: knowing the PS of this, even verbalizing it in this debate, then, because it is now negotiating with the PSD, at the end of the legislature, a Health Bases Act, and the motivation is, uniquely and exclusively, to save private public appearances...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u116	...and to save the business of the private who live at the expense of the budget of the National Health Service? Is that, very sincerely and very honestly, this final part of Mr António Sales' speech has made the PS so a little the carochinha, who is in the window asking « Who wants to marry the carochinha? » and thus throw your carpet to the PSD,... [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u117	It's not just PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u118	... asking directly whether the PSD is available to marry the carochinha, which is the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] The PS has already had the opportunity to make a law on the left, actually. We were available to do this, we had made a way, there was an agreement, then there was no agreement because the PS did not want to fulfil it, but therefore that possibility existed and was concrete. at this moment, the Socialist Party, because of a question that has to do with the public-private partnerships, with the Mello Group, with the Health Light and who is behind the public-private partnerships, decided to return to its window and become carochinha again, now launching the song only to the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u119	We're not John Ratão!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u120	Therefore, what we want to know is why this change in the position of the Socialist Party, why now try to launch a friendship with the PSD to save public-private partnerships, why, at the end of the legislature, choose, or try to choose, the Social Democratic Party, knowing, as Mr. Deputy said and everyone knows, how the PSD left the National Health Service. Now, knowing that it is not advisable to go back to those times, however, the Socialist Party at this time seems to be willing to move forward in this friendship with the Social Democratic Party. The question is why and what they are currently negotiating with the Social Democratic Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u121	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, spoke of instants. Well, I'll give you a few snapshots to revive your memory. There are 150 obstetricians missing from the North to the South of the country, the emergencies in Santa Maria have incomplete scales in 17 days of August, and, apparently, tomorrow they will meet several hospital boards because it seems that chaos is installed in Lisbon. Doctors alert to chaos at the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra — doctors are alerting! — and from the north to the south of the country there are no gloves, no suture threads, no maces, no surgical instruments, no mechanical suture machines and no hot water. There's no, there's no, there's no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u123	Are you talking about your past? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u124	It is the word of order, certainly inspired there by your comrades of the Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u125	All right! [[Protests by PCP Members João Dias and João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u126	In the face of all this, which lives every day, it is not strange, therefore, that Mr. Prime Minister and Dr. Mário Centeno go hand in hand by the country, from land to land, promising everything to everyone, promising more professionals, more labor rights, more hospitals and leaving everyone to their fate, completely to abandonment, and people to die waiting for surgery. Mr President, you may reply to me that this House today is not bringing anything back to the debate. Unfortunately, I say, Mr. Deputies! It is the absolute disgrace that this government has left the SNS and the access of citizens to consultations and surgeries—unfortunately, this is the example of the ULS (Local Health Unit) of my district—is the disorganization, it is the absolute disorder that lives in the ULS of the Guard these days.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u127	Of course! Look out!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u128	The news, unfortunately, speaks for us, reflects that there is a shortage of doctors and now also lacks material. And we've come to the point of preparing cancer patients for surgery without first checking whether their surgical material is there, whether it's available and whether it's necessary for that patient. So there, Mr. Member, everything is missing: orthopedicists are missing, and that is why there are five firemen from the Celorico da Beira corporation, who come from a fire in A25, who have an accident and have to be evacuated to Tondela / Viseu ; there are no monkeys left to these firemen, who complain to the League that there are 4, 5, 6 hours waiting for the ULS to release their maces because they have no beds available to put patients; there are also no doctors — cardiologists, otorrinos, ophthalmologists — these doctors who only make emergencies once a month and therefore we understand perfectly how there are people who wait four years for the first consultation. For all this, I would say that there is an absolute corruption in the Guard district, with the transport of patients who successively and consecutively have to travel to Coimbra and to Viseu to receive their treatments, these transports, see there, that the Minister of Health does not pay... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...and Mr. Prime Minister comes here to say that everything is paid! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already told you, and I'm telling you again, it's 35 million that are in debt, and only for the corporations in the Watch the debt is 1, 5 million. So in the face of all this, Mr President, the only thing that happens to me to ask you is whether, after four years of government, of four budgets approved by you and by those gentlemen who sit there on the left, you do not feel a deep shame of the horrendous statements which Mr. Mário Centeno has produced during these days, weaving wonders about the current state of the SNS? I would have, Mr. Deputies, much shame. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u129	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, I have listened carefully to what you said, having put the debate on access to the SNS. I would just like to bring the debate to today, rather than discuss what happened four years ago, because it seems more relevant to me. And about that...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u131	Yeah, yeah! It's your lack of memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u132	Yeah, I know you don't like it, but unfortunately we live today. According to data from the Central Authority of the Health System (ACSS), in 2018 around 670 000 surgeries programmed in the SNS, less than 3500 than in 2017, but this is partly justified by the surgical strike and therefore will not be the issue. It is only that, at the same time and in fact, the SNS is not responding to all the search that is addressed to it because the surgeries performed through the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery), i.e. those that are referred to for the private hospitals conventioned, have also been increasing. In January 2016 the number was 125 000 patients enrolled in the SIGIC, a number that has been increasing every month, and in January 2019 there are 241,000 patients registered. And why does this happen? It happens because waiting lists in the SNS are increasing...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u133	Look at that! No access!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u134	... and are increasing because maximum response times are not met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u135	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u136	17% of the patients were waiting for surgery more than 270 days ago, Member of the Commission, which, in terms of evaluation of the SNS response capacity, seems to me to be quite unreasonable. Therefore, the only way to comply with what is a constitutional right guaranteed by the SNS is, in fact, to make use of the conventional private. And it would be very good not to have the problem so well described by the Minister of Finance yesterday: it is that they have removed the captives in the health budget, but they have filled out the entire system throughout the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u137	How smart!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u138	Therefore, at the moment, SNS is not paying conventional hospitals these SIGIC surgeries. And what happens? It happens that, with payment delays of more than two years, many doctors say they are no longer in a position to carry out the surgeries and, therefore, at the end of the line those who are affected are the citizens, who neither in the SNS nor through the SIGIC can see their situations solved. Mr President, I ask you if you think this is a good solution in terms of access. Does it seem to you that closing the ropes to the bag is the best solution? Even above the budget surplus so significant, is that what they should do? Is it ideological prejudice or is it simply inability to manage a system that has been mounted for many years for the benefit of users? Now — and because I cannot but make this note, Mr President — I would like to talk to you about moderate rates, which seems to be a strangely omitted subject in this debate, you do not understand why.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u139	Do you know why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u140	Mr. Member, I should have played the lottery the day we had the debate here on June 14,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u141	...because, at the time, what I said was that what was anticipated was that, when the process arrived at the specialty, there would certainly be a turn-face. In fact, I asked Mrs.Jamila Madeira how that so sudden convergence between PS and Block as it would result in specialty, and see there that, despite Mrs.Antonia Almeida Santos said that they voted favourably, that it was all very well, that the only thing that eventually was to fine-tune was the date of entry into force in 2020, days later we learned that, after all, there is a theme of phase-up that we, telepathically, should have perceived why it was implicit in the PS speech, and we, of course, merely mortals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u142	We're not Centeno!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u143	...we couldn't achieve that reading. Moreover, it is even funny, because the phase-up that you propose is already included in the exemptions. They say patients referred to through the Health Line 24 will not have to pay. That's it, that's it! But it is all right, Mr President, you will think of anything at the time of the specialty, of anything new that will appear in the meantime. My question is simply this: on moderate rates, what is the conviction of the PS? After all, they don't want to end the moderate rates and I don't understand if it's because they finally understood what they serve, which is to moderate the search and avoid additional congestion of the system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u144	Nothing more false!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u145	... or it would have been the EUR 160 million that spoke higher and the Minister of Finance who, after all, put judgment on the PS bench and said to them: « My gentlemen, it is better to make a good excuse in the specialty, because it cannot be». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u146	The last question to Mr António Sales is from the CFP, through Mrs Paula Santos. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, before addressing the question, I cannot fail to make a reference in this debate because, being us at the end of the legislature, what we have verified is that the PSD and the CDS simply passed a 2015 rubber back... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and put the accounts at zero in 2016, as if everything that happened from that year did not result from what happened before. We understand perfectly that they want to hide all your responsibilities in the situation in which the National Health Service is located but we will not leave because you have been responsible, in fact, for a brutal degradation to which the National Health Service has arrived, responsibilities that we have not taken away from the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u148	So why did the Budgets vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u149	... because it is true that the Government of the Socialist Party did not take the measures it should have taken to effectively strengthen the response capacity at the level of the National Health Service. The question I would like to leave to Mr António Sales now is this: what prevents the Socialist Party and the Government from taking steps to respond now to the needs of users? What prevents the Socialist Party from promoting the recruitment of missing health professionals so that the National Health Service can be strengthened?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u150	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u151	The latest budget execution data or the data we now know from the first quarter show not only that there are conditions, show that there are more than conditions to invest and strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u153	And what is the Socialist Party's option? That's the point. They want to give an effective response to the National Health Service, including by implementing the recommendations adopted in this Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the CFP, in the emergency plan for the National Health Service, with regard to the hiring of professionals, investment in health centres and hospitals, either for equipment, either at the level of their infrastructure, with regard to the reduction of the list of users by family doctor, the strengthening of palliative care and continuing care, or prefer to continue to be subject to the dictatorship of the deficit and the criteria of the European Union... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Hélder Amaral and the Member of PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... as regards budgetary matters? This is the fundamental question we are putting here with regard to this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u155	... and there is nothing in this State budget, as in the previous one, that prevents the Socialist Party and the Government from taking all these measures. Why don't they? If they do not, we can only consider that it is a political option not to want, in fact, to strengthen the National Health Service and also to contribute to the private business. Now, Mr President, I would also like to focus on the following aspects: in this State budget several proposals have been adopted that have not yet been implemented and must be, such as the inclusion of vaccines in the National Vaccination Plan, mental health issues and issues related to professional contracts. There are standards that have to be implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u156	You have the floor to answer, Mr Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u157	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, Ángela Guerra, Ana Rita Bessa and Paula Santos asked me questions. Allow me, in order to give a conjunctural aspect of the answers, to begin by replying to Mr. Moisés Ferreira and Paula Santos together. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, with regard to the basic law, the challenge was not launched to the Democratic Social Party but to the House, was a broad challenge for parliamentary consensus. Therefore, we are not in love nor intend to marry anyone, what we have done was indeed a challenge to the whole House. But, Mr President, we must also have the notion of reality and our limitations, and we cannot fall into the simplification of thinking that it is possible to give everything to everyone at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u158	Ah! Isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u159	So we need to take safe and consistent steps so that we do not go backwards in these different aspects of access. Thus, if I may, in my reply, include this idea of gradualism and progressiveity and that we do not have the vigour to want our political agenda — and when I say to the various parties — to overcome this reality. So we need two things: realism and commitment, and we need to go beyond, at the moment itself, at the moment, with political honesty. Mrs.Angela Guerra, I am not ashamed of what Mr. Mário Centeno said; I am ashamed of how the PSD left the National Health Service in 2015. I am ashamed of you, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] The honourable Member has given great emphasis to the issue of maternity, but I would like to point out that on 10 April 2012 the following could be read in the social communication: « Steps Coelho justifies the closure of the motherhood Alfredo da Costa with better use of staff ». And Paulo Macedo even claimed that the closure of Maternity would happen during the Legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u160	And?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u161	Mrs. Member, what is the coherence now? At the time, the ladies. PSD members agreed, now they don't agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u162	You didn't lock it up, did you?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u163	Is it because, at the time, the closure was definitive and is now transitional? [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, since we're talking about closures, I still want to say that you are. Members were so determined to make closures that they decided to give the fatal and final slaughter in Portuguese access to the National Health Service and to close 11 emergency services at national level. Let the populations of Póvoa de Varzim, Chaves, Mirandela, Barcelos, Coruche, Montijo, and so many others, you were even determined to end the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u164	And how many opened? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u165	Wait, Mrs. Member, wait! But, Mrs Deputy, there had to be an explanation for this and the explanation was found in the OECD, which said that Portugal cut twice as much of what you had negotiated with the troika in health. The explanation was found, Mrs. Member, and the Portuguese were definitely doomed to being unable to access health services. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the response times are indeed one of our great problems, which I think we have to work on in the next Parliament. But they are also proof that there are more Portuguese to access the National Health Service and are also proof of what happened, that this government has decreased from 270 to 180 days, in normal priority, the times for surgery. Now, it is clear that this has somehow sent the whole casebook that Mrs Deputies has presented. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that this government is indeed aware of what is missing — and we need to do a lot! — and we shall certainly do so with social sensitivity and budgetary responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau does not register, I ask the Democratic Social Party whether it is in a position to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u167	We are in a position, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u168	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u169	Mr President, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u170	There are threats that immediately produce consequences. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to health should be speedy and there should be no doubt about this. Periods of waiting for several months for consultations or surgeries should not exist in the National Health Service and there should also be no doubt about this. This maximum applies to Portugal of 2013, 2014, 2015, as applicable to Portugal of 2018, 2019, 2020 and from there on. Therefore, we do not forget—but the PSD and the CDS-PP always want to forget—that in 2014 there were also waiting times for more than two years, 658 days, for a consultation, for example, of hematology in Aveiro, including for patients with cancer in the blood. They were more than two years waiting in 2014. We know that, in these debates, the PSD and the CDS-PP want to pass a rubber on the past, they say that the past does not matter, as if it did not condition the present and the future, but that is also the reality. in the experience of the PSD government and the CDS-PP, cancer patients were two years waiting for consultation, as there were also users waiting for more than seven months to mark a consultation with the family doctor in Vila Franca de Xira, because there were 1.5 million users without a family doctor. It is interesting not to forget this, as it is also important not to forget that in 2014 the average time for an ophthalmology consultation, for example, in Lamego, in one year, increased by 500 %. And how do the PSD and CDS-PP react, with their government, to all this? They react by cutting the budget and professionals, as if this made any sense. We here, on the bench of the Left Block, do not forget this past, do not forget the past of the PSD and CDS-PP, do not forget what they did and what they did, always to destroy the National Health Service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not ignore that there is much to be done at the National Health Service at this time. We don't pass rubbers on the past or on the present,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u172	Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u173	...so we do not forget what other parties have done, as we do not forget what is happening in the present. Therefore, we have always been here, present, fighting for a majority on the left that would strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u174	Is that to hit palms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u175	That is why, too, the Left Block gave its vote for State budgets which substantially increased the budget of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u176	And they executed what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u177	PSD and CDS-PP cut EUR 1000 million in four years'budgets, but with the vote of the Left Block, the budget of the National Health Service increased by EUR 1300 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u179	We have always been available for a better National Health Service ; the Socialist Party is that, at the end of the legislature, it seems to want to abandon this majority to constitute another majority with whom it has been cutting in the National Health Service, as we have seen here and how it has been public in recent times. And everything for what? All to maintain public-private partnerships. Only this, nothing about users, nothing about the National Health Service, nothing about clarification between public and private, nothing to strengthen the SNS, all for public-private partnerships and perhaps more important than that, by whom is behind these public-private partnerships. We know the names, we know the faces, Groupe Mello, Lusiadas, Luz Saúde and so many others. All around public-private partnerships, all for economic groups. In fact, at the end of the legislature, we also heard a speech, which there is still little time to repeat by Mr António Sales, which reminds us very, paradoxical and curiously, a certain speech from the devil: "We cannot give everything to everyone, there can now be no exemption from moderate rates, we cannot now invest everything in health, we cannot now do everything for public services" because, if not, there must come something else that must be much worse than what we know. Now, with so much devil in the words, with so much demonization of public services, with so much demonization of the National Health Service, with so much demonization of the facilitation of access to health care, which was the dispensation of moderate rates, the Socialist Party seems to be in need of exorcism at the end of this legislature. Indeed, much of the devil's speech is not only in the interlines, it is already in the explicit discourse of the Socialist Party. Now, the Left Block keeps the one who's always been his position. We do not forget neither the present nor the past, but we look to the future too. We want a National Health Service of quality, excellence, public and for all people. Therefore, we have already said that we do not accept remedies such as rotating maternity closures, we want the solution that goes through the hiring of professionals. We do not accept that they remain in standby policies that facilitate access to health care, such as dispensation of payment of moderate rates, we want to increase access to health services. We are here for this, until the last day of this legislation and for the next legislation too, and we do not want to waste any opportunity to get a National Health Service that the country deserves, a National Health Service of excellence. Now, the Socialist Party has to explain, not only to this House but to the country, what is available to do until the end of the legislature. The policy of the Left Block is clear, but the policy of the PS is less and less clear. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u180	Mr Moisés Ferreira, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the defeat of the PSD/CDS government and the change in the correlation of forces in Parliament, it was possible to interrupt one of the periods of further weakening of the response capacity of the SNS, cutting of the rights of users and professionals as well as their depreciation. The action and intervention of the CFP and the struggle of workers were decisive in achieving progress in the rights of workers, users and in strengthening the SNS. We recognize and value all the progress made, but it was not enough to give a full response to professionals, users and SNS, not due to lack of proposal from the PCP but by the option of the PS and its government, which put the option for the accelerated reduction of the deficit in front of the rights of professionals, users and the strengthening of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u183	The lack of obstetricians, anesthetists and pediatricians, who have been conditioning and preventing the normal functioning of the maternity wards of Beja, Portimão, Lisboa and throughout the North region, would have been combated if the government had hired the professionals and had advanced the allocation of financial incentives, and others, which would allow the establishment of professionals in areas lacking, in fact, proposals provided for in the State budget, and others presented and approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. The fight against waiting lists for surgery and consultations would be more effective if the government had implemented the proposals for the hiring of missing professionals in several SNS hospitals. The improvement of the facilities of hospitals and health centres would have been achieved if the government had implemented, and not delayed, the investments envisaged in the State budget that provide for the construction of hospitals in Évora, Seixal, Lisboa, Barcelos and Algarve, as well as investments in the repair and expansion of hospitals and health centres. The obsolescence of equipment would be resolved with the increase in public investment, affecting funds available in the State budget and in European funds. It had been made a clear bet on the appreciation of professionals, either through careers, or on improving working conditions, and would have been stagnant the departure of professionals to large groups operating in health or abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u185	It had been approved of the CFP proposal to amend the health care arrangements and to implement the State budget rule which provided for the opening of the extraordinary competition for access to the speciality of young doctors and today, of course, we would be walking towards strengthening the SNS in missing specialities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It was not due to the lack of proposals from the CFP that all the difficulties of patients' access to health care have not been removed, particularly those resulting from moderate rates, non-urgent transportation of patients or access to medicines. It was because of the lack of will of the PS and its Government, that, by joining PSD and CDS, lead the PCP proposals which repealed the moderate rates, attributed to more users non-emergency transport, medicines to patients over 65 years of age or even the exemption of antipsychotic drugs to patients with mental illness. It was not due to the lack of proposals from the CFP that the bleeding of SNS money for the large economic groups operating in health did not stop. It was because of the lack of will of the PS and its government, that once again joining the PSD and CDS, the proposals of the PCP that put an end to the disease business have plummeted. It was not due to lack of PCP proposals that did not advance in the area of mental health and visual health, at the level of primary health care. It was for lack of will of the PS and its government that did not approve them and that again joined the PSD and the CDS to lead them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the strong offensive that has been unleashed by the protagonists of right-wing policy and the advocates of the disease business ideology to the National Health Service, this has been able to resist thanks to the dedication and commitment of its workers and is the only guarantee of the fulfilment of the right to health and the provision of high quality health care to all users, regardless of their economic condition. This is a reality that cannot be hidden, as much as PSD and CDS today tried, once again, to blacken and weaken the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u187	however, progress needs to be made in the implementation of the measures provided for in the State budget in order to strengthen public response. instead of closing services, what is needed is to hire the professionals who need it. instead of transferring patients and consequently millions to large private health groups, what is needed is to invest in SNS, it is to use installed capacity and end PPPs. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u188	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u189	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. What is clearly required is that the rights of users, the rights of professionals and the strengthening of the SNS be placed as a priority. This is the proposal of the PCP. That's why we work every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u190	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we can certainly say that the announcements, the promises not fulfilled, socialist propaganda does not withstand the test of reality. The Socialist Government has trivialized verbs such as 'promising' and'deluding', both using them and abusing them. In the face of the collapse of SNS, public services, Super Minister Centeno and all socialist governance reveal a sad and painful social insensitivity, a weakening of the suffering of sick people and their families and the conditions in which professionals work, which, I assure you, is highly worrying. In fact, it is clear, after this debate, and once again, painfully, the line of finance with the words of the budgets which you approve, but which are not executed, and we all have proof of this. The decrease in access to health care is evident either in times of unacceptable waiting for consultations, for surgeries, whether in access to maternity, pediatric services, from north to south of the country, with threats of lack of quality in assistance to Portuguese patients. Misleading publicity on the issue of human resources is manifest. You may come every day to say that there are more health professionals hired, but do not say that there are more hours of care hired! [[PS MP Jamila Madeira protests.]] So it's deceptive advertising, it's to play Portuguese, it's incompetence! The question I leave you with is this: if there are more people hired, why do time increases with temporary contracting companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u192	There's more access!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u193	If there are more people hired, why do we have the results we have? We have only one answer: inefficiencies and government incompetence! [[PS MP Jamila Madeira protests.]] That is unfortunately also patent. in the health sector, you have followed a policy that could well export to other ministries, which is the policy of the « extinguish fires». The gentlemen are going from fire to fire to the final disgrace! We do not look at you, nor at your direction, nor at your vision, nor at your policy, nor at your health strategy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u194	You're absolutely right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u195	It is the complete, I repeat, the complete governance that four years ago brings us to the situation in which we are now, with cases that are no more than a standard installed from north to south of the country and which testify to it. But what is also evident in this debate is that Bloco and PCP are inside when they approve the Budget — there they are inside! — and then when the consequences of these approvals are revealed they already want to be out. In fact, we have clear distracting maneuvers with debates on moderate rates or the Health Bases Act that do not resolve the essential. And the essentials were, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again: the health of the Portuguese is being handed over to a socialist government supported by the Block of Left and CFP; the health of the Portuguese is falling apart!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u197	We need change, because in fact, it is the Portuguese who will continue to suffer, and we do not want to! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u198	Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, less than one month after promoting an appeal to the Government, dictated by its already well-known « the worst, the best », the PSD today brought back the issue of health. in practice, it is a very relevant theme because it talks about the most direct relationship with citizens in access to health. And this debate should be about access to health. In fact, for the PS, this issue is very relevant and we have worked on it to ensure that the difficulties of access, universality and quality of the SNS are increasingly a guarantee for all citizens. in this logic of the known difficulties of access to SNS there are many data.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u200	There are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u201	But, above all, there is a lot of data that reveal a profound restructuring and a positive evolution in the achievement of this objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u202	Where is she? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u203	Is that what the PS would like? Yes, they are there, but far beyond any of the miserable scenarios that have come here to be polled and which have been sown here in a purely electoralist logic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that resources are finite, both financial and human. We know where they lack them, but we also know that we need to redirect from other areas to health in a sustainable way so that later on, there are no further setbacks that penalise Portuguese and, above all, users. Therefore, my expectation was that they would come to hand in hand today and take the mistakes of the past, such as, for example, the reduction of more than 4400 professionals or the cutting of more than EUR 1000 million in the SNS, and in contribution, help build solutions. We know that, on the eve of elections, this does not look very well with regard to the bottle that is requested. That is why I assumed that they would see a different way of contributing to safeguard the right to health protection. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. We and the Portuguese keep waiting and believe in a consonant attitude with what would be expected from a party that claims to be a defender of the SNS. For this debate, it would be expected that the PSD would value the 10 800 more health professionals who have been integrated into the SNS since 2015, plus 6400 since the beginning of the Financial Assistance Program that you have carried out. It would be hoped that the reduction would be valued from 40 to 35 hours, promoting the quality of life of these professionals and, now, the quality of service provided to users.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u204	Do you think so? Oh, my God! Do you really believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u205	It would be hoped - that it would recognise a greater requirement in terms of the maximum guaranteed waiting times, with the reduction of 30 days and 90 days of the maximum scheduled waiting times for the first hospital consultation and priority surgery 1, respectively,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u206	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u207	... moreover, as can be seen in the SIGIC ( Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Member. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u209	I would like to conclude by saying, Mr President, that the more 590 000 consultations in primary care, the more 180 000 consultations in hospital care and the more 18 000 surgeries are another sign that we have recovered and walked the right way. The PS today, as in 1979, does not give up or abdicate the SNS and will fight with the Portuguese and on behalf of them for their defense.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u210	We approve of the law of Arnaut!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u211	The PS therefore expects others to join in this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u212	To close the debate, Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Go to deception, sell the illusion, a achievement, a zero on the left, I say, but I also say it by Mr Bastonário of the Order of Doctors, who accuses the Ministry of Health of lying and creating illusion—like the terms I have used. It's another inability, another false news from the Ministry of Health to deceive the Portuguese, it's another lie — that's what the Doctors' Order Office says!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u214	He's a pirate, a villain! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u215	The Independent Medical Union speaks in misleading advertising, also referring to advertisements by the Government. I say it's a mistake, it's a zero on the left. And it's a zero left why and where? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at moderate rates. It's a zero on the left! at first they left that, in public opinion, if they created the illusion that the moderate rates were eliminated, which is not true. They were only eliminated in primary health care and would be eliminated in MDDT (additional means of diagnosis and therapy) or consultations, when referred by the SNS, but left this understanding in public opinion. This is called "go to deception"! But are moderate rates really eliminated? Don't! It's the double step! It's the second step! It's a mistake, it's a zero on the left! This was because, a week ago, they found that there was a problem with the financing of the 150 million moderate rates, particularly where they came from, how they would be covered and how the SNS would supplant them. I'll explain, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: it is about as you all join together and go to a restaurant; they sit at the table, pick up the menu and start asking; they feast, take pictures, send them to friends, put them on social networks; it is a party, it is a joy! [[PSD laughter.]] They don't ask for the bill and the restaurant employee, strange that they never ask for it again, comes with the invoice on the plate that puts on the table. What about the gentlemen? Oh, my God! The gentlemen look at the account and start pushing each other... [[PS protests.]] They look at the account very startled and start pushing it from one to the other! [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] All right, you're already seeing someone screaming, just like Mr.António Sales is screaming right now, because he doesn't like listening to certain songs, he's not used to it! At the restaurant they'd be screaming 'cause no one would pay the bill! The gentlemen push each other! [[PS protests.]] Therefore, the history of moderate rates is summed up as follows: it is going wrong, it is a zero to the left. And none of you had the courage to tell the Portuguese publicly and to apologize for going to deceive them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u216	You guys have to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u217	Don't! The president of the PS, Carlos César, pushes into the Block and says the Block doesn't send; the Block pushes into the PS and says the PS is that it's fooling people. Anyway, it's a mistake, it's a zero on the left! Would you like another example? The Health Bases Act. It's awful! They walked four years in the arrangements, they did what they wanted, they didn't do what they didn't want. at the end of four years, they reached a conclusion. During these four years they have successfully budgeted, sectoral policies, concrete and specific measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u218	Good for the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u219	...but at the end of these four years, Mr. Members have found out they have an ideological problem. They don't have a deal! They cannot agree on the basis of principles and a basic law. [[PSD applause.]] They can get where the money goes, where they put the funding, where they carry the taxes, but at the end of four years, the ladies. Members of the Bloc and PS find out that they have an ideological problem. At home, at the PS house, at the Block house and at the PCP house, there is an ideological problem. It is clear, therefore, that there can be basic laws, but it is necessary to return to reality, to adopt a serious spirit of responsibility, to abandon these social experimentalisms which the world and time have long denied and thus have a sense of responsibility that can indeed lead to health. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, it's a mistake, it's a zero on the left! Would you like another example? ADSE. ADSE's in trouble, cross-belt! The left, with 1, 3 million Portuguese in ADSE, says it is a serious problem, but there are no ideological problems anymore. These gentlemen do not know, but we know and Portugal knows that the beneficiaries of ADSE are happy with the service that ADSE provides them. They pay 3, 5 % of their orders and use the services provided by ADSE. Where? We're private! There's no more ideological problem! But it is true that ADSE needs to adopt sustainability measures such as those in the opinion of the General Council...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u221	I will now finish, Mr President. It stated that ADSE needs to adopt sustainability measures such as those in the opinion of the General Council, where trade unions are represented, which was handed over to the Government in December last year, and in the studies of the Board of Directors of ADSE, in the sense that the number of beneficiaries must be extended and financial sustainability to ADSE. What have you guys done for four years? Zerinho! Nothing! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u222	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u223	I will finish, Mr. President. They are probably waiting for the problem to be effectively set up later, there, yes, to return to social experimentalisms and to blow up with a system that favors and provides health support to 1,3 million Portuguese. Anyway! Mr. President, to conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u224	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u225	That's what I'm going to do, Mr. President. It is four years lost and will be very complicated to recover them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-27.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. I remember the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have a plenary meeting at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: Appeal to Government No 32 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — On the topic "Science and Innovation". It is still scheduled on 1st. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019, but no time for debate. Resolution No 95 / XIII / 4 are also scheduled without discussion times. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization for the Establishment of a Office for the Ligation and Partnership of the Organization in Lisbon, signed in Rome on 4 December 2018 ; 96 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Convention on the Status of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, the National Representatives and the International Staff, signed in Ottawa on 20 September 1951 between the Portuguese Republic and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, on the Statute of the NATO Information and Communications Agency in the Portuguese Republic ; and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in local elections of nationals of each of the States resident in the territory of the other, signed in Lisbon on 12 June 2019. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 50 minutes.]]
