ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2239	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 79 and 80 has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2240	I didn't understand you, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2241	Articles 79 and 80. Why are they hurt? The assembly is due to begin at 10.00 hours, and article 80 says you need to secure the quorum. Namely, there are those of us who travel 200 to 300 kilometers to the house and back. At 10.00 you don't have a quorum, and the Assembly didn't start at 10.00 hours. So I ask you in the future, that the Assembly begin at 10.00 hours and secure the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2242	A member of 89 doesn't speak at all about quorum, so I really don't know what kind of remark you've put in. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2243	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the government, on the third day, we are having a debate on the adoption of a very important act, which should provide for regulatory frameworks for the financing of the most important functions of the state and society. We're having a budget debate. In which atmosphere we lead it, it is seen by happy or unfortunate circumstances by the entire people of Serbia. At the very beginning of the presentation, I allow myself to have a digression because I have never once called upon a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say that it seems to me that the main obligation of all of us, according to the Rules of Procedure, is to take care of the dignity of this home. This congregation is a little more than 250 of us. She is the holder of Serbia's legislative sovereignty, she is a symbol of Serbia's statehood and we must all respect her together, first of all, for those who do not miss any opportunity to stress the main purpose of their political activities, precisely the love of the Serbian people, the Serbian state, I repeat, again and towards the institution of that state. Okay, I said I'd keep the subject, and I apologize for this depression. We are therefore having a debate on the budget, and it is normal for the opposition and the position to have different views. It would be normal, of course, if those attitudes and arguments used had something to do with the subject we're discussing. If we look closely at the stenogram, I'm afraid we'd come to the conclusion that we spent more time in this debate discussing existing or non-existent violations of the Rules of Procedure than we talked about the budget. I'm talking about the budget. So we adopt the budget, not just any budget, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I can say right away, as soon as I say -- the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I can't say it's a nice budget. When I look at the revenue side, it's not nice, of course it's not nice, it's sad, because I know in what situation this country, this people and this economy is, and I know it's a great effort to secure those almost 130 billion. Of course, when I look at the spending side, it's not nice, because I know that this country and this people after 13 years of destroying everything they've had needs and a lot more money to finance their functions. So, of course, it's not nice, but it's a budget package of laws that follow it, they don't really have to or can't be pretty. They're supposed to represent the first step on the road we got off 13 years ago. So, the first step towards making the budget look like the budget of normal countries, and the same way that public finances are based on the system that exists in Europe. So the government decided on a brave step. For the first time, we will have a clear budget, reviewed, a budget from which citizens will be able to see who pays, how much they pay, and what that money goes from. From that point of view, it was a step that had to be taken. It's one thing whether someone likes the budget or not, but certainly the patient doesn't like swallowing bitter medications and taking injections either. No one likes it, but that's the thing to do. So from that point of view, I support the government's move and, of course, I will vote in favour of that budget. The only possible objection that could stand to the government, which probably has its justification in the atmosphere, in the short time and period in which this had to be done, is that it had no more power to do more to establish the atmosphere of a general consensual consensus. Therefore, even more attention to all relevant factors in the country, to this constructive effort by the government. In doing so, I am primarily referring to the relevant entities, but also to all the other relevant entities. So let's go back to what's the main subject of today's debate. We must adopt this budget, I stress. (Cheese from the scene: Mr. Perishic.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2244	Mr. Seselj, stop throwing. (Shessel, from the scene: I don't throw away, but I'm in charge of communication with the government. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2245	So the arguments used in this debate can be qualified in a different way. I allow myself not to view it as demagogue, and in so doing, realizing that demagogy is one of the possible types of policy-making, but I cannot miss it without commenting, therefore, that it is quite untasty to listen to objections about the inflation budget, when the promoter admits in advance that the budget will cause a certain percentage of inflation, because it is simply inevitable. To listen to these remarks from party representatives who have created a package of budgets at the same time or led such a financial policy that has introduced us into the Ginis Book of World Records on Inflation, which has not been seen anywhere in the world. I find it very difficult to listen to objections about the small Agrarian budget of former ministers, whose government never even had a budget for these proportions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2246	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2247	Of course he's small, but he's bigger than anyone who ever existed. Okay, I said, demagogy might be allowed. What is not allowed, which is absolutely not allowed, which is to tell the truth. To scare the people and the economy, but otherwise rather afraid of the difficult conditions they live in, and in fact, what is not due to today's government. That's absolutely not allowed. So, gentlemen, when someone comes out for this pay phone and starts talking about a four-time budget that's four times as big as last year, then he's certainly knowingly telling the truth. He's completely conscious of telling the truth. I don't want to qualify what it means by itself, but, therefore, to talk about 32 billion being four times less than 130, of course, from a formal point of view, it's true, but then my esteemed colleague, who showed us the 500 billion bill yesterday, to solve all our problems. If that's what they say, then a colleague has four annual budgets, already booked, so we don't have a problem. So, what we're talking about, it wasn't last year's budget of 32 billion, it was over 50 billion, and if we're still indexing it by the inflation coefficient, then we're going to realize that it's an element that must have gone over to today's real 100 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2248	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2249	Therefore, these hundred and a few billion, I am quite certain that by the extent that it is projected is a real burden for the economy and the citizens, 107, and the rest is fairly recognized and recognised in advance, which of course assumes the government's obligation to make it the way it has promised and covered it. Of course, sir, I won't be long, I think each of your MPs has spoken longer than I have. Finally, if you and Mr. Seselj hadn't spent at least a minute of my time, I'd fit in in those five minutes. Let me finish, I'd like a few more sentences. So it's high time we stopped talking about how some government, for example, the Government of People's Unity under the presidency of Mirko Marjanovic, will rebuild how many bridges and apartments from real estate. From what real means, gentlemen? Did the last government have a magic wand, so it was a real asset with that stick? Everything that's been provided so far, everything that's been done, paid for by the people and paid for the economy of this country. And including these lovely villas we see today on the front pages of the newspaper. Therefore, it should be said to this people, of course he and the economy of this country will pay everything, as they have so far paid everything, but this time not for the trains that are leaving, not for those trains mentioned by Minister Vesenov, trains stolen from Subotica from Nis, but to pay for his better future. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2250	Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here comes Shabic, and then he says he didn't mention me. This is the truthfulness of DOS. Today in your newspaper, in Voice, radicals against the South Serbian budget. Spread the false news. It's not the budget for southern Serbia, it's the budget for Nebojsa Covic. And Nebojsa Covic was a member of the SPS General and Executive Board, when we had a 500 billion dinar bill. Now you trust him with that money. Why are you attacking the opposition for criticizing the budget? Why don't you defend the budget with arguments? When we were in power, we spoke openly, financing the country by means of real resources, but, of course, by people's money. No government has any other money, except for the money they got from the people, if we don't count those six billion dollars from abroad that you promised, which you'll never get into our country. Everything the government has took from the people. We criticise you for planning this time to take more from the people than the government has ever taken from this country. That's the essence of our criticism. You say it's not true, come out here and explain. It was never taken again and never the taxes were higher. In these conditions, the right solution is to reduce taxes so as not to kill taxpayers, and that makes it easier to fill the budget. This way, you'll charge the taxpayers one day, and then you won't have anyone to charge from anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2252	Mr. Shabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2253	Yes, it is, Mr. Nikolic, but this time Mr. Seselj has again received a replica he had no right to. I did mention your name, Mr. Seselj, but only because you were sitting in my seat harassing me, so I asked you to let me speak. In the discussion, I didn't comment on you or the Radical Party. I only mentioned the policy of the former government. The line was given to another colleague from the Radical Party, who interrupted me in the debate. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2254	I want a replica. Give me the Rules of Procedure, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2255	I'd like to ask you to finish this round. We still have time to argue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2256	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't interfere with Ambassador Shabic at all. I spoke to Deputy Prime Minister Perisic, and I see he came in angry this morning, he's not ready for dialogue with the opposition, and then I established dialogue with the other Deputy Prime Minister, Korać. I didn't make a single word of it. He can't make me listen to him when he's saying nebulous things here. You know, I choose who I listen to and who I don't want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2257	The word has a folk MP Slobodan Janjic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2258	The prime minister, in his explanation for the adoption of the 2001 budget law, argues that this law opens up the possibility of a market economy, real prices and curbing the monopoly. Sam introduced a monopoly on oil to a small door, brought his men there, and only he could import oil. It violates the Constitution, the law, freedom of the market and all the laws of this country. It provides information on several tens of thousands of police officers, and it also disproves television at night and says there are only 14,000 of them. Who did he lie to? Are we here in the Assembly or on TV? Promised transparency and the public in working on the bulky side of the budget, 15 billion dinars that ministers will spend on their own initiative, were left without a valid explanation. Looks like spending people's money is a state secret in all ministries. The agriculture minister said the average herd in Serbia has between one and two cows. What kind of herd is one or two cows, I don't know. Another pearl of the prime minister is: "Better the drugs are expensive, have them, and let the citizens manage the money by stealing or grey economy." I guess that's what we're all fighting for. I propose that Education Minister Gašo Knezevic set up the Covic University, where citizens will learn fast-tracking capital, or robbery, so that they can buy medicines. Transition countries - Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia etc. They spent ten years destroying their economy and agriculture. The DOS government promises to do so in six months so they don't cough for neighbors and open the market to DOS bosses. You've been deceived by Mr. Vesenov that the hooks and the pests in the field, and the poor and the union are disorganized, so this law-ordered robbery of citizens will cause justifiable social unrest. After only one day of debates in principle began protests in several Serbian cities. We now have a new wing of Mr. Prime Minister: "Galamdzija, no one can beat you except Djindjic, Batic and Covic". In the proposal of the Excise Act, you make no distinction between domestic and foreign producers, so I guess you keep your business and the producers apart from this. Mr. Vesenov shares regressed oil without the right criteria, making no difference about fuel consumption for the plain and mountainous areas. It is known that fuel consumption in the mountain-mounted area of the hectare is much higher. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I do not accept that it is normal for you to put on the agenda a proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001. You have thus made it impossible for MPs to submit amendments to this very important law for citizens in the districts and municipalities from which we come. If it is known that the average family owes 200 marks for electricity, plus utility, how do you think citizens pay for these new charges - to manage. And you will enroll them at Covic's University, so my God, Gašo Knezevic, minister of education, will organise the course over TV screens for four or five million participants. You lied to this boy from Eurodizland -- Minister Djelic -- that Serbian citizens have seven -- eight billion dollars in socks and straws. The Serbian people no longer have socks on their feet, let alone money. You've provided for repressive and legal penalties for those who don't pay these tax taxes. You'll charge them by seizing tractors, houses, televisions, cars and anything a citizen, worker or pensioner owns. You predict penalties ranging from 1 to 100, i.e. between 1,000 to 100,000 dinars. It's a good possibility of corruption due to the range of penalties imposed. It'll be easy for your inspector to deal with whoever's supposed to pay the fine, you'll pay two, me 20, then 100. For the security zone, you predicted 1,500,000 dinars, which I believe is small, and for Mr. Covic and Biserko 500,000 million, on the hands of a man who has been proven to have many malversions. The communal for all the living and dead Serbian patriots says the dogs are war dogs, and I say to that kleptomaniac that war dogs die heroically of bullets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2259	Please take care of the words you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2260	Or the bandits of Vlad Batic take them to The Hague. He's going to get hit by the wire of some asshole, 'cause he's not worth a bullet. Mr. Djelic, you said "Glass," I can't pay small taxes, and I'm telling you, I can't make big taxes on poor wages and pensions. Mr. Covic says two soldiers have strayed, and the truth is they were kidnapped and alive only thanks to the fact that a KFOR vehicle came across at the time of the kidnapping, so he witnessed the act. With all these tights, you're putting a block of tariff on the little door. You will allow the collection of electricity winter expensive tariffs of 70%, which will be 120% in summer. Citizens will start wearing HTZ glasses for the dust you throw in their eyes. Health Minister: South Serbia's health homes do not have one lying sanity under 12 years old, and patients drive to Belgrade by field vehicles. Imagine what it's like for heavy patients in a field car. Yesterday you were very firey in the care of the health of the citizens. If it doesn't turn out that radicals don't contribute to the 2001 budget, I have a little gift for Mr. Secretary that I'm going to give him. These are the real Serbian shorelands, to pack all this up, if anyone can swallow it in the box. I have to unpack so Batic doesn't arrest me for bribery. (Employer Slobodan Janjic hands the oblanda to Minister Djelic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2261	The word is Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2262	Mr. President, fellow MPs, at first I must say that everything I would like to say as an objection to the proposed set of laws and the budget is very difficult to do within five minutes. Six of the most important laws in the state are concluded in one package that we should discuss and each MP should say what he thinks within five minutes. This is another undemocratic way to prevent a normal discussion of the very important legal proposals that are on the agenda today. In principle, I agree that our laws should be systematically harmonised with the laws that Europe owns, and, of course, a set of tax laws, but I do not agree with the application of so-called tax laws. shock therapy in this area for economics and citizens, who have managed to survive and actively work and create at the time of ten years of isolation, sanctions against our country, during the war environment, who have managed to withstand the aggression of NATO, but I wonder if our economy will be able to withstand the shock therapy of new proposed tax laws. The explanation that the previous government is guilty is not really standing, and I have to stop there and say that we in Pirote since 1996 have had the Coalition Together in power. Since 1996, Mr Tomislav Panajotovic has been my friend, Mr Tomislav Panajotovic, at the head of the Pirot Municipality. For four years, we've been listening to stories about how the previous government is to blame. For four years, Pirot has not won a sports hall, he has not revitalised one, but not a single business facility. Pirot didn't help any firms. It's all on the grounds that it's the previous government's fault. I hope that's not the way it's going to be with this authority and that we won't listen to those same stories in the next period. So, as a recommendation to the new government, it is necessary to turn to the realization of what you promised in the pre-election events, in order to be more ready to welcome the elections that are very close. I must say, in view of the proposed budget law, it is really illogical to adopt the budget for the next year, in this case, the current year, before the adoption of the final bill from the previous year. It bothers me that there is no consolidated balance which is a regular practice in all European countries and which should show from how far the social product will be possible to allocate funds to fill such a budget. If we compare it to one household, it means we don't know how much we're going to make, we don't know how much we're going to bring into the house, but we know how much we're going to spend. Minister Djelic mentioned on several occasions that we should reach Bulgaria and Romania. I don't know if Bulgaria and Romania have consolidated balances, but Mr Djelic wasn't almost in Bulgaria, I'm offering to take him to see how people live there, but not to go to Sofia, but to go on the road to Sofia and stop in 2-3 places, to see what the standard of living in Bulgaria is, which applied all the possible measures of the IMF, the World Bank and all the wonders of the world economy, had no sanctions, had no war, so people live twice as much as we do. Also, the budget is not set for the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija, but says the finance minister is giving funds at the request of the federal government committee for Kosovo and Metohija. It's a de facto waiver from Kosovo. For a short time, I'll have to hurry. The budget is deficited for 21.8 billion dinars, and the reason that the deficit will settle with 10 billion of privatisation and 12 billion dinars of donations is very hypothetical. Whether it can lead us to doubt or make us call this budget hypothetical. I only hope that no one in this chateau will think of filling the budget holes in the way our neighbours Croats did, importing and stocking nuclear waste from France, for which they get huge money. Since businesses and businesses really don't have money, and it's very likely that this budget will lead to the development of very large inflation, much greater than 30%. And pro-inflation pro-inflation, I really don't know if the government has a coherent view of how much inflation there will be, because every minister has a projection. Some say 30, some 40, some more than 50, which brings people into confusion. I have a technical remark. In addition to the existence of the Development Fund, which was also criticised in the previous period as a Fund that has no clear purpose, two other funds are being introduced. (President: time. One for transition, one for subsidies. I have to cut short, and I wanted to say something about the excise law and the traffic tax law. Finally, the government says it will have three billion dinars to compensate for social tensions. Gentlemen, social tensions can be avoided if they are created and conditions are used to increase production in companies, if these companies are brought into one situation so that they can do better business, not if they are forced into new force and their business becomes further difficult. I can tell you've made mistakes. However, the expertise of the government does not give me the right to talk about it. First of all, I think they are very aware of what they have prepared, but I doubt it, so let time say whether my suspicion was justified, whether this set of tax laws was governed as an introduction to a new law that we will soon have in the congregation procedure. It's the Law on its own transformation. With this set of laws, companies will be brought into a very bad situation and public opinion will be prepared, as some 100,000 people are already expected to be on the street, public opinion is being prepared to offer a new law on their own transformation, which our companies will very easily hand over to those who want to buy them. (President: Please bring the end. ) If this is not the case, if there are improvements in standards within 2-3 months, if there are new jobs, increased company productivity, I will apologize from this mountain range. If my doubts prove true, you gentlemen will apologize to the people if anyone wants to listen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2263	The word has the people's emissary Ljubisa Maravić, followed by the people's emissary Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2264	Dear Presidency, representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs, I don't think Serbian citizens have the right picture yet, nor can they acquire it, on the draft of these laws we're talking about today. They are constantly launched on television stories about arrests, TV games about "bingo billions", in which self-invited billionaires, along with Hague bounty hunters, actually serve as a substitute for public attention from the desperate economic situation in which the country was found. As things stand, and what they look like now, it's about the continuous blackmail that money from the instorancy is being made political goals, on purpose, so that our economy comes to a beggar's stick and that as cheap as possible falls into the hands of foreign lenders. Citizens wonder why we live worse and worse. A concrete question from Minister Djelic -- why the AP of Kosovo and Metohija's budget, which is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, was set out in Article 69 and Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the legal basis for the existence of Cosmet as an administrative unit within the Republic of Serbia is annulled. I'm afraid this isn't a random mistake. We heard yesterday an explanation of what the government is thinking and what it is preparing for Kosovo. But it is not clear to Serbs from Kosovo why the payment of local self-government workers has been suspended in the past year. Doesn't that mean an unequivocal message to all the Serbs living there that they were left behind? It is obvious that the promise made by individual representatives of the current government, Dan Evers, is also going to force Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the list and to the elections, perhaps confirm that. Despite a public oath of genuine concern for the security of our citizens in the territory, there is quite the opposite of confidence when you see the projected percentage in the budget ahead of us for the Serbian MUP, which is suspected from 19.6% in 2000 to 13.8% in 2001. I wonder if this kind of proposal is financially, that is, non-financial, the MUP, in line with the current real situation on the ground? We had, the other day, a statement by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic about the interior ministry's lack of equipment. With regard to the proposals of the laws on taxes on the use, holding and carrying of certain goods, they particularly fall into the eyes of the enormous amounts provided for to tax the owners of registered weapons. Such a tax policy will be affected by citizens who keep these weapons at home to protect their families from emerging crime and terrorism that threatens our country's independence. Not even socially useful members of hunting associations should be ignored. Such green sums, the owners of weapons registration, must extract from domestic incomes, will surely force them to give up that property, and many of them to break the law, which is also an illegal possession of weapons. In addition to the end-users, which have almost 20%, I also have to point out the disastrous consequences of this tax policy on the domestic dedicated industry. Thus, the world-famous Zastava plant, whose products have entered the personal weapons system of many armies and police around the world, may virtually be shut down. Because the proposed tax on registered weapons directly distorts the interest of the manufacturer, because the domestic market will completely freeze. Part of the employees will also be threatened, and absolute redundancies will be increased. There will be an increase in the supply of second-hand weapons, as well as a percentage of illegal traffic and ownership, and citizens who have legalized weapons may also feel deceived. Mr. Djelic, from your opening presentation and from the presentation of the Prime Minister and the proposed laws, you can see that after the adoption of this package of the law, you will collect a number of products, and I will only list some - oil derivatives, and with them all kinds of products, flour, electricity products, natural gas, all kinds of textbooks, school supplies, children's clothes and shoes, medicines and medical supplies, orthopaedic aids, production and distribution of water and thermal energy. ( President - time.) ) Therefore, Mr. Minister, if there is a tax on textbooks and school supplies in the present time due to lack of funds for family life, there will be no means for education, and without knowledge there is no progress and improvement for our nation. We want to create a white plague, increase the birth rate, and by abolishing the tax on these products, we would make a modest contribution to these young people. Or, when it comes to natural gas, a household that has an apartment of 50 m2, which is heated on natural gas, needs from the home budget to allocate about 5,000 dinars per month. In a situation where thousands of tons of NATO bombs have been delivered to our country, dozens of tons of poor uranium, the utilization of the growth of malignant and other diseases, medicines and medical means should not be taxed because, let alone in the future, most of the population will not be able to buy a cure without talking about orthopaedic aids, because they are used by those whose struggle for life and work is great. (The President - Please bring the end. In the end, Mr. Minister, in Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stands. I quote: "The obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is determined according to the economic power of the debtor." The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that 120 billion dinars, which are due to receive the budget, divided by the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, mean that every citizen from a baby in a cradle to a pensioner, should give 12,000 per month or 1,000 dinars per month. From this data you can best see how unrealistic and unfulfilled the government's proposal is, so I ask you - do you really believe that citizens at this very difficult economic moment can meet their obligations and what will happen to those who will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2265	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2266	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the attitude of the Serbian government towards Cosmet can best be seen from the fact that the amount of funds foreseen for the functioning of the state in the territory. The very fact that such small funds are designed to help the Serb people in Cosmet, who wants to stay on its centuries-old hearth, does not give hope of their survival. It is hard for either of us, of the 150,000 Serbs and Montenegrins who have remained to live in Cosmet, to withstand the terrible pressures of Albanian terrorists, who are viewed by some representatives of foreign missions who are also financially and economically helpful. We'll hardly be able to stand up to such powerful and powerful financial enemies. A larger number of Serbs in Cosmet due to a very difficult security situation and because of restrictions on freedom of movement cannot carry out their labour obligations, and thus earn their own personal income. Therefore, it expects its existence exclusively from its queen, the state of Serbia. However, that the Kosovo budget on Metohija remained at the level of last year's budget, so it is realistically lower due to the increase in all the cost of living, and the cost of living in Cosmet, due to the overall situation, is much higher, and thus the increase in budgets for this year is needed, and the increase in tax rates will be even more drastically felt in the area in the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is incomprehensible that the coordination body for southern Serbia needs between 20 and 50 million and for Kosovo 80.9 million. Both spatial and numerical Cosmet is much larger than the southern part of Serbia, and we do not know what criteria were taken for southern Serbia, which for Kosovo and Metohija. Perhaps what the Prime Minister said yesterday -- that there are no military and police in Kosovo, but he certainly forgot, and he may not know that there are still about 150,000 Serbs there -- serves as the basis of a member on funding, which reads: "The funds for the financing of AP Kosovo and Metohija have been proposed in the framework of the Ministry of Finance and Economy's division, and it is proposed that they be approved by the Minister of Finance and Economy on a proposal from the Federal Government for Kosovo and Metohija." These funds were planned at the level of 2000. Does this not mean that the temporary execution is lifted, and all those living in Cosmet know what we have and how we have received from the Interim Executive Council, as it has functioned, together with the UNMIK Co-operation Committee, i.e. the resolute subcommittees that have been and were concerned with the remaining Serbian life that remained in Kosovo and Metohija? It is commendable here that we hear from DOS representatives, from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, from the president of the DOS Parliamentary Club, Ceda Jovanovic, that they are thinking about Kosovo and Metohija, but we who live down from that thinking do not notice anything on the ground. All I can say is what we got since the October 5th DOS came to power. First of all, the salaries were lifted... (The President - please stick to the agenda. )......................................................................................................... It's within the agenda. (The President - it has nothing to do with the budget. ). Salaries of workers in local self-government have been lifted, and the Committee's orders are pending. About 3,000 workers only in the central part of Kosovo, in the Kosovo district, do not receive personal income, and before I go here, we had a meeting, all preparing to go through the restoring ministries to seek their own income. We've been suspended from humanitarian aid. As far as the Agrarian budget is concerned, I must say, all donations to agriculture have been abolished. While the JJ Committee worked, we regularly received seed goods, we received oil, aid for carrying out agricultural work, and I must say that, apart from the northern part of Mitrovica, the remaining Serb animal mostly lives in rural areas, and it is very necessary for it to deal with agriculture in order to facilitate its life in Kosovo. There are many, few times, but we hear, and today we see in the newspaper, that the Prime Minister announces that we will surely have a topic about Kosovo and Metohija soon and we will talk about it a little bit better and a little longer and we will bring up all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2267	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2268	Dear fellow MPs, yesterday's day, a little bit and ailing, marked in a pleasant and good way the speech of Bozidar Djelic, the finance minister, whom I compare and call our new doctor, Laz Pachu. So, in an argument, he convinced not only this National Assembly, but the public, and this morning I met a large number of people who confirmed it, he convinced this public that we have a man who can run these finances and who's going to have this broken ship, and it's known who brought her into this state, to perform, not immediately this year, not in three months, so that someone would want to bring her into one state that we can function as normal. Yesterday, it was noted that Bozidar Djelic deserved and heard a very long, honest, warm round of applause and support. The opposition's MPs have not applauded. The opposition constantly objected, voiced doubt and acted in the spirit of that man who said, "God forbid a neighbor dies a cow." The opposition wants this budget to fail, the opposition is acting in one primitive way, resisting everything, so it was smart, acceptable and good. I have here a minutes from the Third Regular Session of the National Assembly, December 7, 1999, the budget search for 2000 is over in 10 hours, and here we are still discussing in principle three days. In the record, in the stenographic notes, there's no sign at all that some MPs, who are doing this here, have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure at any moment. No, it all worked out like the wrong, because they were obeyers of this regime, whose opportunity and legacy we now have to resuscitate. Why is the opposition acting this way -- they want this authority, chosen by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia in the elections, to fail, and to show that they are only invited and qualified to lead this country. Save God and their leadership, this dream will not come true, for the people have in their minds a painful and painful memory of what they have suffered and experienced for the past 10 years. It was stolen from every citizen, and from those buried there in 1999, in December, during an angry winter, the 10 most beautiful years. The opposition gentlemen chose the wrong time to be an opposition. Why were they not an opposition when it was obvious that this country was falling into ruin, why did they not say then, sir from the SPS summit, so as not to defend Serbia's national interests. No national interest in Serbia has been defended. On the contrary, they've all been questioned, they're all ruined. Gentlemen MPs from the opposition, I think it's time to remember that we are here for the sake of the people's good. This people, who may have voted for this and that, are interested in settling opportunities, primarily economic opportunities, and then social opportunities. Well, then, let's talk about it and talk about it, not, say, looking for some "hair in the egg" and dispute what can't be challenged and that we're wasting valuable time here. We've got other people, I don't want to say smarter jobs, but this is really no use as it's been done so far. It would be good to continue this session to make a little more sense and remember that we are here because of people's interests and affairs, and not because of some failure, in advance of our political ambitions, to go back and show that the people voted wrong. No, the people voted correctly on December 23rd because they had put an end to one rule that led to defeat. I didn't show, this is a statistical yearbook, which is state statistics. State statistics, of course, must often hair and embellish some data. This, gentlemen, is the MPs of the People's Opposition, a heavy charge for those who have been in power for 10 years, who have led this country, because all indicators, from industry, from agriculture, especially where we've crashed, where we've come from. Someone's responsible for that. It's not just sanctions, and NATO, as many try to explain. It's the one who ran this ship and the ones who helped him. Thank you. [[Employee Branislav Ivkovic seeks replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2269	Well, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2270	Please, it was said here at the pay phone - the primitive opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2271	Mr. Ivkovic, I didn't give you my word on the replica, please, there were words about the opposition, about the government, that's not the reason for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2272	Then I use my five minutes, which I have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2273	You have the right to report third, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2274	Dear Mr. Chairman, indeed my personal great respect, but you have broken the Rules of Procedure again, Article 98, you have allowed Mr. Zahari Trnavčević to speak completely, all five minutes, past the agenda, and that here, behind this pay phone, he is giving a political speech. Secondly, Mr. Zechariah Trnavcic, you know that I have great respect for you and you know why they are the roots of our mutual respect. It is not nice that you have allowed yourself in those years to generalise everything here in this room and to call that primitive opposition people who, respecting Serbian citizens, are trying to quickly, in a well-prepared way to repair material, in order for Serbian citizens to benefit from this material. If we are discussing it much longer now, we are discussing why this Government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared material that it itself places on an unusually large number of amendments. If you already have your stenograms, look at how many times the Governments have put amendments on their own -- it's been a great shame before to put yourself on your own proposal for an amendment, rather than letting MPs do it. Furthermore, here in the O.R. are those who called on the bombing and who called for civil disobedience, and many of the dubiosis, municipal enterprises, public enterprises, are just connected to the fact that the dubiosis was created. The truth is that you said that Mr. Djelic is an extraordinary young man, he finally made one move that we welcomed, invited us to talk. We've been on the phone for three and a half hours, and I'm here publicly assessing this gesture of his. The only thing I want to tell him, since he wasn't in this country, is that it's something that's been there before. Mr. Djelic, not only did we call, but we went to all Serbian cities for certain legal solutions to hear opinions. You will now be the law on small and medium-sized enterprises, for which all regional chambers of commerce have given their opinion, and this speaker here has been in all these regional chambers of commerce. It is clear and understandable why, by defending the budget, the representatives of the DOS majority in this assembly, as well as the representatives of the government, would rather talk about the 2000 budget than about their own proposal, because if they are talking about their own proposal, they will talk about 30 billion dinars of intervention compared to last year. It is clear why they are talking about the 2000 budget and it is clear why they say they have not been paid, and no children's allowances, pensions, various social benefits, amounting to 20 billion dinars. It is true, Mr. Djelic, but it is true that in that part of the budget, which Mr. Sabic calls out-of-budget, 20 billion dinars are foreseen for the reconstruction of this country, and all 20 billion dinars, which are foreseen, are legally foreseen, are legally spent and the country is restored. Now, that's why the answer -- why no social benefits, child benefits and pensions were paid, because 20 billion dinars, instead of going to that end, had to go into disaster, which NATO had made, and made it a social disaster and that you would eventually be in power. That's what this is about, and that's the truth. As for the dubiosis, the dubiosis is no longer 21 billion, dear gentlemen. By accepting the government's amendments, this same government that put on its own amendments, the dubiosis is now 28 billion. That, dear gentlemen, is $400 million. How are you gonna get them wet? If you sell Slobodan Milosevic, you got $100 million. You only have one, you don't have four. And when we talk about the economy, when we talk about sales tax, my dear gentlemen, as much as you do in the Transport Tax Act, you're not going to drain out of the dry drenina from the tax on child shoes, school supplies, hunting rifles, water cottages, what you've come up with, triple Sheschel's isolation for mobile phones, you won't be able to get anything, nothing without raising business production. You won't get anything without raising the farm. Unfortunately, there is no word in this economic budget. There are as many words about the economy as there are in the Serbian Development Fund, which is 0.5 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2275	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2276	It's a shame. For Serbia's development, project 0.5 billion, while predicting 19.1 billion dinars per fund, for the Ministry of Finance 5.1 billion, for the Ministry of Transport 7 billion dinars, for the Ministry of Energy four billion, this means that in one single position in the branches of large ministries, predicting ministers to decide on 19.1 billion on their own, for various funds, for which no purpose has been defined, there are no defined distribution criteria, and they are not formed through the law. At the same time, only 0.5 billion put into the Serbian Development Fund. You, dear gentlemen, transfer the 19.1 billion dinars to the Serbian Development Fund, whose chairman of the Governing Board is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is formed by law and who knows how to deal with that 20 billion, support this economy, and you will not have to deal with Serbia's citizens this far through the tax, that is, through the Transport Tax Act. However, I have the right to doubt because I belong to the opposition that this may be done on purpose, because at the same time the Law on its own transformation has been abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2277	I'm asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2278	You killed the will of the workers to feel their businesses, and you seem to have the intention of selling them out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2279	Mr. Ivkovic has violated the provision of article 99. The Rules of Procedure of this congregation in which it stands, that the messengers of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Ivkovic made a monstrous claim, in which he said people who called the NATO Pact to bomb this country are sitting in this room. Let him go out and say who these people were when they called, and let him do it or go out and apologize. Otherwise, I'll be honest with you that he's-- he's lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2280	There's no response to the replica. And it was the Rules of Procedure? Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's a line to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2281	It is certain that Serbian citizens need much more and answer to the question of today's day and future days in this country. And that's why we're gathered here to talk, and first it was about the public revenue and expenditure law, then only then the Republic of Serbia's budget. That there was justice and order, first the final bill, but for tactical reasons, and obviously we'll talk about it later. The citizens of Serbia certainly need a story about what they will do and how they will live. The trouble is that many speakers from the DOS majority, MPs here and also members of the government, defending today's proposals for tomorrow, like to go backwards to tarnish that back and justify their moves, today, which will astically make it difficult and challenge the fall of Serbia's citizens' standards. The truth is, Mr. Shabic, remember the lady in black, those who were ringing the bells, and among them you will find those who called for the hardship of this country, that this country would spend 20 billion dinars on reconstruction after NATO aggression, not on social giving, and that someone else would come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2282	You didn't mention it, no offense. (The President speaks to the People's MP, Zahari Trnavčević. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2283	I just want to say you didn't listen well. Here, one MP asks if I spoke. I didn't say you were primitive, but I said you're applying primitive attitudes and motives here to criticise this budget and the work of this government. That is, you want this government to fail, too, not to achieve this budget and ideas about the recovery and recovery of our fiscal, social and economic policies. Why? So to prove that the people, the citizens in the elections voted wrong. That, my dear friends, is not going to happen, and it would be better if you pulled the clips out of the wheels, otherwise your hands could be broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2284	Are any of the members of the government answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude a common principle search. The National Assembly will vote individually on these draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out in principle, then carry out a search in particular and vote in general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2285	I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 93, paragraph 3. I would ask you for a brief explanation, it is that the National Assembly president interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. I asked the fear that after my argument, you would suggest to the National Assembly to conclude that today's work has been terminated. Namely, this is the first law we pass in this assembly and the first law that is subject to the assessment of constitutionality. On the day of entry into force of this law, each citizen under Article 22(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has, because it is guaranteed, the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision that is being resolved on its right. We've been informed by the Minister of Justice that we don't have a Constitutional Court. The Serbian Constitutional Court has nine members, deciding most of the 9th, which means it decides with 5 judges and must have 9 members. If we pass this law today, the citizens of Serbia who are taxpayers, to whom this law applies, have no protection and cannot protect any of their rights because there is no one who should protect them. It is true that the President of the Republic proposes candidates for members and president of the Constitutional Court. But it's also true that we choose them and resolve them, and that we control them, and it's all regulated by the Constitution, the work of the Constitutional Court. As we control the work of the government, other bodies and other officials chosen. Mr. President, you are organising a session of the National Assembly, preparing us to pass laws, and you have not prepared the citizens of Serbia to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights. I ask you, did you write to the President of the Republic of Serbia, asking him to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court and for the President of the Constitutional Court and whether he answered you. If he has not responded, the question of the responsibility of the President of the Republic is raised. I am prepared to vote here to vote his mistrust and to go to the referendum, to decide whether he performs his duties in accordance with the Constitution. If you haven't written to him, Mr. President, then we're not ready to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2286	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2287	Here, I'm done. Then we're not ready to pass laws. Don't let us decide the fate of the citizens, and we haven't given them any right to protect them except the street. Maybe it's in your best interest for the people to pour themselves into the streets. One Prime Minister called the workers who were gathered, and who asked to speak to them "galamdzijam", he was from another political option. We've experienced, two or three days ago, that the Prime Minister from your political option, too, calls those same people "gallads". I think, Mr. President, you should take care of this. We have a huge package of laws waiting for us to pass. We can't put people in a position to get their hand in their pocket... (President: Mr. Nikolic, four minutes. )......................................................................................................... To go to prison - here, I end - to go to prison under the provisions of certain laws without having the right to appeal. I think you need to take care of that. I suggest we stop the debate, I suggest that those who are responsible for this come out for the National Assembly's pay phone and inform the MPs, who is in the interest that a democratic state, recognised by all the states in the world, does not have a Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2288	Be patient, do not deny Mr Nikolic the right to answer his questions. Why are you so nervous? Mr Nikolic, you, if I understand correctly, have not objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, have already used the right to propose that the Assembly should terminate the work because there are not enough members of the Constitutional Court to decide on possible complaints against certain acts brought by the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has not yet passed an act whose legality could possibly be checked by the Constitutional Court, and how the Constitutional Court has deadlines in which, according to the cases submitted to it as motions for the assessment of constitutionality, it is easier to do so, Mr Nikolic, because no right has been denied to anyone. So anyone can submit a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of an act, a law passed by the National Assembly, and in a further procedure, it protects its right. Therefore, I do not see that any right has been denied to anyone, especially that the Rules of Procedure has been broken on your proposal. And I'll put your proposal to the vote. So, your proposal is that the Assembly interrupts... Because of your interaction, I'd have to explain something. ) (Tomislav Nikolic, from the hall: Replica. I need to explain something. There is no replica to explain the Rules of Procedure, no replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: You have misread me). There's no replication to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. It's just the Rules of Procedure. You can only be dissatisfied with my interpretation, and you have no right to a replica. I'm putting your proposal to a vote, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please state the proposal to terminate the session until further notice, because it is practically open to the full members of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] It wasn't concrete, but to stop working on this session. You pointed that out. What can I do? Next time, formulate more precisely. I'm asking you to plead with me by voting. No one voted for, against 126, abstentioned 37, 23, a total of 186 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2289	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2290	Mrs. Jovanovic is before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2291	She's giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2292	She's giving up? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2293	Mr. President, you haven't done the right thing, you've already misintegrated. (From the O.R.: Which member? )Read, as you ask me which member, read this Rules of Procedure. Will you let me say it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2294	Mr. Seselj, we are not discussing my correctness here, we are discussing the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2295	Well, I'm here to suggest that you haven't applied the Rules of Procedure properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2296	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2297	Article 19 and Article 96(1) First of all, you did not correctly put an objection to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2298	It's not in that article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2299	Oh, yes, you did, but you didn't read it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2300	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2301	I called a member, let me explain it, and then say it's not by that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2303	This is not about the Constitutional Court's work, it's about the lack of a Constitutional Court. When the Constitutional Court falls to the count of four judges, he doesn't exist. There is not one very important state body without which neither the Parliament nor the Government nor the President of the Republic nor the judicial system can function.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2304	We've already decided that, Mr. Seselj, if you haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2305	You've been deciding about something else. You pleaded whether the Constitutional Court was working. And here you can't decide...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2306	We pleaded on Mr Nikolic's proposal, which explained his proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2307	You didn't because you misjudged him on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2308	Disintegrated?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2309	This is about the lack of a Constitutional Court. You can't decide here by your vote that there is a Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court doesn't exist. You can thus vote there is no opposition. Can you do that? Come on, vote. Come on, vote now. I can't wait for that vote. Why did you fail yesterday?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2310	On your remark that a violation of Article 19 and Article 93(3) has been made. Rules of Procedure, I understand that you've missed the members, because it's not at all what you pointed out, I must say that I haven't misrepresented you, as you said. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Natasa Jovanovic, Vuko Antonijević, Velimir Simonović, Predrag Mijailović, Stevan Kesejić, Borislav Pljević, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanović, agoljub Stamenković, Milorad Mirčić, Tomislav Nikolić, Vojislav Šelj, Dragan Marković, Bozidar Vujić, Srboljub Žujanović, Dragan Čolić, Veroljub Arsić, Branislav Blažić, Petar Jojic, Vitomir Plužarić, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Slobodan Pavić, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Lazar Marjanski, Ljubomir Muć, Hranislav Perić, Miomir Ilic, Radojko Petrić, Mirovanje Petrić, Mirović, Mirović and Živić Živić Živić, Živić and Živić Živić Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Živić Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Živić. National MP Ljubomir Mucic gave up the amendment to article 14. at the meeting of the Finance Committee. You've received reports from the Finance Committee. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the wake of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 in principle. For 133, against 60, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2311	Where's Mr. Djelic? I don't see him here. Mr Djelic spoke yesterday as the last speaker to this assembly and this caused a salvo of enthusiasm from DOS MPs. However, such enthusiasm is shared neither by the professional public, nor by the unions, nor by the citizens. An MP sitting two three rows behind me, Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic fell into a real delirium, as if he had seen Tito again. I proposed that the total revenue in the 2001 budget be fixed at 75,320,000,000 dinars. This is relative to the planned income reduction for the circus 30%. Come to your senses, gentlemen of the government. This is the planned high level of budget and the planned high level of fiscal interventions you will not be able to achieve. The economy and the population won't be able to get out of a harvest this high. Minister Djelic, who is not here, as a budgetary expert, would have to know when total public spending exceeds 50%, but yesterday he said that total public spending is 46%, but he did not give us the figures, so when total public spending exceeds 50% of the country's gross domestic products, total chaos arises. When I say total public spending, gentlemen of the Ministers, I mean the republican and municipal budgets, the fund budgets and the federal budget. When these budgets are collected for this year, I say responsibly, 50%, and let Minister Djelic from this speaker deny me. So 50% of gross domestic product. The consequences of this high public consumption are: 1. The inevitable escape of economic activity in the gray economy zone; 2. Economic depression and economic collapse; 3. The mass boycott of the population in carrying out its financial commitments coatings because these obligations are enormously high. That's what the economic theory says and it's being taught in high school, this government and Minister Djelic should know. What will your government have to do in that case? She'll have to start printing money to meet budget users and budget needs. That film, we all remember, we saw it directed by the Shainovic government in 1993. Then, normally, there's a complete mess in the country, and that's why I'm appealing to you, gentlemen of the government, to come to your senses. Reduce total revenue from the budget, relieve the economy and the population. All income items must be reduced by 30%, so all planned taxes are 30% down. Mr. Djindjic asked us yesterday or the day before yesterday that if we suggested something like this, we would tell who we would take it from the budget users, since we are reducing the revenue side of the budget. The tank's got a lot, and I'll just count a few. Section 1. - President of the Republic, position 2. - material costs cut by half. The constitutional institution certainly does not work and I see no reason to spend more than 5 million dinars to maintain the presidency building at Andric's wedding. Section 3. - The government of the Republic of Serbia, position 11. - the costs of hotel accommodation of appointed and appointed persons. You planned 19 million dinars to spend this year for those purposes. If everyone sleeps in the Hayat Ridjensija, as the president of the federal government, Žizic sleeps, and sleeps in the Hayat Ridzensija is 500 marks, it is normal to spend this much. By the way, Ministers, appointed and appointed faces, deputies, to normal hotels with normal prices. So this needs to be cut in half. Position 12, same division, means the Government of the Republic of Serbia - funds for the work of the bureau and agencies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - 10 million dinars. Who works in those bureaus? Probably aunts, aunts, uncles, kids, meaning everything you couldn't fit into the other ministries you'd set them up in these offices and agencies. Even in the light of this budget, you haven't bothered to explain what these funds are intended for. That position should be completely deleted. So I could go from division to division, all 36 divisions. There are many examples of irrational spending of people's couples. In the amendments I've submitted, I'm going to do more about those savings. The first calculations say that your savings are well above 30%. That difference over 30% should be focused on the salaries of budget users, so you should give education, health care, the police, because I think the planned salary increase is 33% on average for these categories. It is already clear that the 33% salary increase on an annual basis will cancel by 1 May of this year. Finally, you need to balance the planned revenue and expenditure side of the budget. You plan 22 billion to fill out foreign donations, you can hang a cat on a tail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2312	This is a debate in detail, for six minutes, it really doesn't make sense. The amendment is five minutes in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2313	Isn't it smarter to turn these donations into state investments and run a state-run machine?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2314	Is the motionist answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Reporter of the Committee? No, I don't. President of the Parliamentary Group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2315	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is essential. It concerns the total amount of budget that is too large, hard to achieve for the devil, and for the people insufferable. Prior to his coming to power, with his leaders' illustrious performances, the DOS was committed to reducing public spending and the restrictive budget. Now all of a sudden you're going to another extreme. As big money lovers, you're looking for as much budget as possible so your ministers have as much money at their disposal as possible. Unreal is your projection of real economic growth this year. You should clearly separate what economic growth was like last year by September and what a fall it was from a bulldozer revolution, so when you're making a forecast for this year to have those two aspects in mind. Today we still have a trend of stagnation and more declines than growth. Why is this dilemma present? Because statistical indicators are not comprehensive, they refer to only some goods, and they completely release goods from the area where the price has already been 400, 500 percent and more. They're completely running away with statistical indicators, and statistics don't even take them into account. That's why your calculations are wrong. Next, you plan ahead of schedule a budget deficit that will have no one to cover. If you had planned a smart budget for this year then you would be heading towards a further reduction in the number of beneficiaries of the budget, you would be repairing the position of the public services, without which the state could, and you would not be making a waste budget with an increase in tax rates and skin-drawing tax bonds. You seem to be deliberately going towards a budget that cannot be realised and leading a tax policy that kills taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2316	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment. For 33, against 99, abstentioned 5, 35, a total of 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does an admancer want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, please, only if I can get one of the denials to go to this people before they start, in the name of the Parliament. Last night, information was announced on the first Radio Belgrade programme that the main controversy was led between the Serbian Radical Party, President Vojislav Seselj, and Prime Minister Djindjic, around the Co-ordination Body for South Serbia and 0.5 million dinars. It's 500 million dinars. Indeed, the difference is a thousand times. The Prime Minister in his exposé, during the elections, said that the third condition is important for the country's credibility and its accelerated development, good legislation. The government's task is to establish appropriate conditions for investment and business through legislative initiatives. Also, it has been said that it will significantly reduce taxes, and that the deficit, which is created in the budget, should be filled in by curbing the black market for oil derivatives and cigarettes. We didn't cut taxes, we just increased taxes. Based on new taxes, the consumer basket will increase by about 400 dinars. I don't understand the policy of reducing the economic power of the taxpayers, the tax burdens are increasing to those in the most difficult situation. You may have cut the rules for the poor to keep quiet and pay. At first, you swore to the legality of the work, and the first member of the first draft budget law is not in line with the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which has not been amended. The amendments to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses are later under consideration and are decided on by the third, fourth or fifth item of the agenda. In time, we were suggested to the Committee on Budgets and Finance that the agenda must be such that legal opportunities are created to introduce the budget deficit. This legal precondition does not introduce a budget deficit until the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses is amended. This law and its amendments take place the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. Don't start using one illegal base right away. Elimination and erasure of the basic budgetary principle, the principles of budgetary balance, the axiom for drawing up the budget plan, are later under review. Covering oil, oil derivatives and cigarettes and eliminating the grey economy, the budget deficit will not be covered. Nothing new since the budget deficit, as I said yesterday,..... 22 billion dinars or about 700 million marks. What does the budget deficit mean? This means that this is a political deficit, on which the government will either change or celebrate its success, on the burden of increasing rates and arrests, and the deficits covered on the burden of the local population, and to realize that the budgetary balance at the end of the year was done and implemented, and the people were deceived, that the budget was achieved, and the donations and loans that you cheated on this people and promised, did not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2318	Does the motionist want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Does the Committee’s rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Does the President want the word - representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2319	You should read the Rules of Procedure. All heads of Parliament have the right to speak of any amendment. This amendment is good and it would be good for the National Assembly to accept it. Unfortunately, for the government, it is unacceptable, as well as for the congregation's majority. Why? Because the government cannot guarantee that they will receive foreign donations. It's hard to get foreign donations to cover the budget deficit. Thus, no one in the world gives or rarely gives a lot of small amounts. As much as my memory serves, only Milo Djukanovic once received about 30 million for his budget deficit. When foreigners give money, they give very little and generally give it to purpose. Minister Djelic or his deputy, Dejan Popovic, could receive a donation to the mad soybean. But how does that crazy strain fill the budget deficit? That's impossible. Or some similar nebuloses. If any donation comes, she might be in the equipment for a particular hospital, she might be some kind of social benefit in medicine, in life supplies, so on. The donation will not be allowed to be sold, so that the government can patch up the budget deficit with that amount. Secondly, a new amount of 10 billion dinars of the budget deficit, which Minister Djelic and his deputy, Dejan Popovic, appeared to be silent. The government has tabled an amendment to reduce excise duty on gasoline and diesel fuel. By reducing the excise rate, the budget will be lower by 10 billion dinars. Those 10 billion dinars are a new budget deficit. The total amount of the budget remains, and 10 billion dinars are reduced. It would be very good for Deputy Minister Dejan Popovic to explain the additional deficit and it would be good for the assembly to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2320	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 23, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Custody has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2321	Gentlemen Members of Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted the revenues of this budget to be specified and the planned funds of 10 billion dinars on the basis of privatisation to be entered into the revenue side of the budget. As all MPs have seen, the budget explained that the budget deficit will be financed from donations planned at 12 billion and from the 10 billion-dollar privatisation funds. I don't see why the government didn't suggest that we have the revenues of this budget in these exact amounts. And when it comes to privatisation funds, I also proposed with the amendment that these funds be irrevocably inserted into the Development Fund, Split 6 - Ministry of Finance and Economy, Position 25, and that those symbolic funds of 500 million dinars increase to 10 billion and 500 million. There are two reasons for that. First of all, because the funds provided for in the Development Fund, which primarily serves to revive the economy, are inappropriately small, and secondly, we must have as Parliament control over the use of these funds from privatisation. Thirdly, what seems even more important to me is that the nature of the funds that come from privatisation does not allow those funds to be used for final consumption or any other budgetary consumption, which is not related to the resuscitation and launch of economic capacity, with the resuscitation of production that we know is at what level. From here, it seems to me that the Government must think in this way, that the Development Fund is actually that driver of the economy, which will allow us to raise these funds based on taxes and contributions and to fill the budget, not to spend the funds from privatisation at the beginning and not to be anything in the end from reviving the economy. Here, that was my explanation. I don't want to use all five minutes because it seems to me that each of the MPs who seriously observes this thing must have these elements in mind. And, another -- we actually stopped privatisation by the previous privatisation law. Now I find it a little malignancies, and a little unserious that the government is planning privatisation funding in 2001, and that we still don't have a bill on how privatisation will be done in the future and how. How, then, we can actually talk about 10 billion dinars of money achieved based on privatisation that will make up the revenue side and reduce the deficit. On the side of what I think, and I think most MPs also agree, that it is extremely unusual in these conditions to have an unbalanced budget and show up in advance a budget deficit which, as is known, is being financed either from the primary emissions or from the credit. I see here one of the reasons why these funds are not on the revenue side, and because the government does not want to accept responsibility for making these amounts, in which 10 billion are planned on the basis of privatisation and 12 billion on the basis of donations, into the budget. Because it's completely uncertain whether we of our donors, who bombed us, are going to make those 400 million marks about 12 billion dinars of donation or not full $200 million. So, please, here's the question -- what are our donors going to do to you when the issue of war damage on the basis of NATO bombing, which is certainly over $50 billion. And -- why didn't we in our budget in this year, among other things, plan these funds based on the damages that NATO has to make up for both the pact and all the donor countries mentioned here. Thank you. And you, sir, you said something like that yesterday. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] You don't have the right to throw me behind this pay phone, I haven't even used the time that's scheduled. Yesterday you told us that we robbed this country. Now I'm taking the opportunity to tell you -- it's possible that you're robbing her this way. I didn't rob anything in this country, and you have no right as an SPS MP to insult me in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2322	Mr. Ivkovic, you're looking for a word as head of the parliamentary group, just hold on a second, do the motion or do the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No). All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2323	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, regarding the amendment submitted by the SPS MP, I would like to underline a few very important matters. We went into debate about this budget thinking that budget imbalances are 21 billion dinars. The imbalance, following the government's proposal for an amendment to its own proposal, concerning excise duties on oil derivatives, will increase to nearly 30 billion dinars and more. So the budget imbalance is going to be 25%. We want 127 billion, and we don't provide 25% in income. It is extremely important to balance the budget and to clearly show the sources. If it's privatisation, if it's 10 billion, if it's 15 billion, which is planned, those who run the whole business must have a balanced picture and know how much average monthly is expected to adjust the average monthly consumption. So we're in a year where we realize we're missing 25% of the funding for the planned keg. It is important that these sources, donations, privatisations, precision, balance the budget and follow-up plans during each month for the realisation of revenues to pay for the income. It's simply a household approach to business. Secondly, it is extremely important - the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, passed under the law passed by the Serbian Parliament, is run by the Governing Board headed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I guess you trust them. It's very bad if we in the privatisation process, now violently taken from workers and transferred to the government, are in a position to sell factories that work extremely well, such as cementers, oilers. We'll probably sell them first. That money goes to budget spending instead of going to a bad economy and doing bad business. It is therefore important that these funds from privatisation go directly to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in order to raise on their feet those economic capacities that have been mutilated by the embargo, the inability to import repromation and the inability of the plasma, and that the working class gets a chance to work, earn, and only then will it be able to meet the new tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2324	For? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2325	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS will support this amendment because it is thought-out, serious and talking about an important problem regarding this budget. First, there is very little money in this budget for investments in education, health, internal affairs, prisons, culture, physical culture, judicial buildings etc. Only a billion dinars are foreseen. It's about 30 million marks per current course. By June, it might be a dozen million marks, as it all started in our economy. During her term, the radical government in Zemun invested only over 60 million marks in investments. And here, 30 million marks are planned for all of Serbia. So you're not planning anything. Schools are in desperate shape, windows don't work, they're nailed, blowing from all sides, heating is bad, wet knots are bad, for years it hasn't been moving, parquet's been ruined, it can't be done. Hospitals and infirmarys are in desperate condition, not moving, equipment has not been supplied long ago, wet knots, kitchens etc. Not to tell you what's going on in prison, in courts, in police stations, etc. Only a billion dinars are foreseen, and that's a drop of water in the sea. Secondly, what this member who has been granted an amendment shows is that you are not planning any serious privatisation this year. You've predicted only 10 billion dinars of privatisation if there's any serious privatisation. I wonder where the rest of the money will go? What are you predicting him for? Third, this budget applies only to 9 months in 2001. You're in this Article 4 or 5. The budget law clearly fenced that the first three months of budget spending did not apply at all to the Budget Law. There you found a solid amount of money, just 100 million marks in the Development Fund, clean money in the Belgrade Bank, and I'm not talking about what you had unpaid liabilities, not to mention, from various businesses across Serbia, various businesses. You've obviously listed that money, because they don't make any income for you here. Simply, you have one budget that is extremely unprofessional and in that budget you have unseriously formed both income and expenditure items, and you are unseriously accessing your basic obligations. It would be extremely wrong for the money to be used wrongly from privatisation. They're supposed to go into investment first. If they go into investment, then the people will benefit greatly from it, to build bridges further, to repair traffic infrastructure, to improve river shipping, to improve electricity, to finance the improvement of electricity, not to make Labus plan as cheaply as possible to sell the entire electricity industry, to get a commission, to sell something worth 60 billion marks for all three billion marks, as planned, and not to raise electricity prices, not to cost electricity 10 times as expensive as it was in September last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2326	If no one answers the word anymore, I am putting MP Jovan Todorovic's amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and find that 54, against 115, were not detained, were not voted 18, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Milorad Mircic and Branislav Blazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have in Article 2 of the amendment -- funds to cover the costs of the AP Vojvodina budget, 395 million. It is not a questionable desire to make up for some funds primarily for agriculture in Vojvodina, which has suffered the burden of these difficult years. However, it is disputed that these funds are given to an AP Vojvodina government, which has no people, one government that doesn't rule anyone, one government that has six vice presidents, more than the Chinese, and there is no people to rule over. It's almost an artificial creation. Serbia's Parliament, the Serbian government, which receives a great deal of funding from the Republic of Serbia, absurdly, the funds will be approved primarily by the Serbian Parliament to finance the media that will tear down this Serbia. Therefore, what it takes 5% of the personal income tax and 10% of the company's profit tax from Vojvodina should be directed, if you want, directly to Vojvodina agriculture, health care in Vojvodina, education in Vojvodina, and thus you will direct these funds as you wish, but you will give it purposely. This is how you will give one administration that will spend it all, and that the citizens of Vojvodina will have nothing of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2328	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to make more remarks about this member of the law. First, according to the Constitution, the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija are fully equal in status, completely two equal territorial autonomys. You separate Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina from this member of the law. Kosovo and Metohija remain in the status they have been in so far, with revenues, and you provide the Vojvodina with two new types of original incomes. Since there is no government representative, there is no one to respond, but it is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're introducing a financial autonomy of the AP Vojvodina, providing her with original incomes, but then you're in college with yourself. If you're already giving Vojvodina 5% of the income tax and 10% of the company's income tax, how can you limit it to 395 million dinars? If you give them 10% and 5% of any revenue, you don't know how much it's going to be. How are you going to limit that kind of income? You didn't say 5% of the income tax to the amount of that and so much, so 10% of this tax, to the amount of that and that. By interpreting the position of 2nd and 3rd of this article, all revenue collected as percentage revenue from these taxes will go to Vojvodina. Interpreting attitude 1. The Vojvodina cannot receive more than 395 million dinars based on these revenues. How are you going to split the amount on your tickets? When you're going to stop with those revenues, because someone's going to tell you -- 395 million dinars are loaded. How, when the law says - as long as these revenues are collected, 5% of each and 10% of the sections go to the AP Vojvodina. You need to get a little deep when you're writing the laws. I will have these objections to intricacies, to discrepancies, multiple times today under the Budget Law. You have to think about what you're writing, because that's life in the last nine months. So I suggest you just throw out this 1st-status restriction. If you want Vojvodina to finance the way you've solved it, nod, nod, happy, happy that Vojvodina is slightly, slowly detached from the system, from the administrative system of the Republic of Serbia, then at least remain consistent. You give them original incomes, there is no limit on original incomes, there is no limit on anyone, there is no limit on the Duke, but I warn you, especially those who swore to the family and children that the Duke will not go away, and I warn you to keep your oaths in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2330	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word, Mr. Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2331	I don't know what it's worth, gentlemen, that we explain these amendments, when there's not a single representative of the government, this is like deaf talk, and on the other hand, it's obviously the anxiety and intolerance of those who listen. You'd better listen to this. It is not a sin that man does not know, when he is in the first congregation, but it is a sin when they ask you to explain it to them, so you will not know. First, the amendment to this article was submitted for the simple reason that, according to Tomislav Nikolic, the government has proposed a member who is contrary to the Constitution and the law. A man who isn't addressed and doesn't know what the text is, may think that these funds are being returned to the AP of Vojvodina, so that all the citizens of Vojvodina are getting it. No, these 395 million funds are intended for the financing of the administration in Vojvodina, and it is clear that these funds are allocated and distributed to the payments of personal income, to the salaries of the administration, to the material costs of the administration and to the specific purposes of the administration. So, for officials who are in the province's authorities and for these purposes, they give sources of income, by hanging a new leech on a worker's pocket, on the pocket of those who are taxpayers. They draw extra funds from them to finance a overpaid administration in Vojvodina. Officials in the Vojvodina Assembly, if you did not know, have much higher salaries than officials in the republican authorities. If you wanted to obey the law, gentlemen of the proposers... And here comes the finance minister, and I hope you won't be as excited as yesterday, and yesterday it looked like "hi-bye to the listeners"... If you've already given sources of income, then you've had to pass some jurisdiction in law. You say - these funds are intended for certain responsibilities. What are these responsibilities? There's no transfer of jurisdiction. The same jurisdiction remains. Consider it territorial autonomy at the level of municipalities or cities. In municipalities and cities you are clearly transferred to jurisdiction. You haven't transferred any responsibilities to the Autonomous province yet, nor have you increased them. Tell me, finally, what authority you're going to transfer, I mean the administration in the AP, whether these are responsibilities for the police, whether the responsibilities are related to the school or to some of the others you think, in order to achieve the precondition to move from the autonomy phase to the stage of the Republic. You cannot, gentlemen, allocate funds based on the calming of some of your internal conflicts. You're a bit of a pain in the ass, or you're going to put these people from Vojvodina, the autonomists, and you're going to make money to satisfy them. Canak Djindjic gave the bolt, but not literally, it's part of his body, he immediately transfers 395 million. How much would you give him if he gave him that bolt in his head, no one knows. You can't do that, gentlemen. You're playing a double game in front of the people. You who are members of DOS, in Vojvodina, are saying that you are against the fact that Vojvodina is left alone, to become a republic. You come out here for a pay phone and praise how good it is to financially support the autonomy of Vojvodina. Don't say that. It's an amendment. You know, learn a little something. You get angry, you get angry when a man wants to teach you something. Vojislav Seselj explains to you, educationally affecting you, explaining using the terms that have been established, simplified, to make you understand. You're angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2332	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2333	He says the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2334	Education time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2335	He says the Prime Minister, the pastor who guards the herd, is angry. What if he had said about the Prime Minister - if he were a German shepherd, you shouldn't be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2337	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, the finance minister would have to accept these amendments, which are quite consistent, if he still wants to have a consistent text of the budget law, and if he wants the budget law to be in agreement with the Constitution and the legal order. First, it is not possible to single out part of the budget revenue of the budget law specifically intended for the financing of the administration in one of the provinces. You here, here in this budget law, have insisted on uniting the income item, and here you are disputing that income item. A normal reader of your project is immediately wondering, why? For a simple reason, because you have entered a 395 million figure here, and you have made a compromise with the Vojvodina autonomists, and you realize that the incomes on these two bases, by 5% of the income from the personal income tax and 10% of the company's profit tax, will greatly exceed 395 million. Secondly, this is not the money that stands out for Vojvodina. This is money for the autonomous bureaucracy in Vojvodina, to double the bureaucratic apparatus, so that the Autonomous Region builds those institutions that Chanak announced, which are not according to the Constitution and the law and for which so far there was no money from the budget. The same ministry, and Minister Djelic and his deputy, Dejan Popovic -- I am surprised that Dejan Popovic did not understand it because he is a professor of the university, but it seems lucky that he has achieved his life's desire to be deputy minister --... prevents her from responding in good time. According to the draft law on the final account, both autonomous provinces of about 230m dinars last year had budget funds at their disposal. This time, only Vojvodina has 395 million dinars. If we compare the account last year, because there was a lot going on for Kosovo and Metohija, maybe a full half, and given that it had already been three months so this budget was only 9 months in 2001, we conclude that four times the budget of this year is AP Vojvodina, than it was last year. He's four times bigger. Look at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the MUP, whether their revenue items are four times higher this year than last year. How much the Ministry of Education's revenue is higher this year than last year, for a poor amount. For the duchy autonomies four times as much. You, through this draft budget law, are already building a financial basis for the gradual independence of the Vojvodina. As soon as Montenegro goes away, it's Vojvodina's turn, that's what your bosses from the NATO Pact told you. It wasn't an accident that Djelic from America came here, now he cares where you came from, Djelic... (Božidar Djelic, from the post: From Serbia. He cares about being a minister here for 10,000 to 15,000, for a salary. Don't be naive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2338	No one's answering for a word anymore. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Lazar Marjanski approaches the speaker and asks for a word. You don't have any here, you have a later amendment that's contrary to this amendment, but it goes specifically. What do we do? Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should support this amendment. With the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, both autonomous provinces are completely equal, regardless of what happened to us in Kosovo and Metohija, where we lost some municipalities. It should be borne in mind that in Kosovo and Metohija Serbs still exist and work in Kosovo Mitrovica, in Strpc, in Leposavic, in the Pećko district, although only in the village of Gorazdevac, but there is a significant number of Serbs there, and I believe that 80 million were allocated to the budget for this year for Kosovo and Metohija very little. All of this, especially if we know that these people live in really difficult conditions and that they need to be given a normal life and work, so help them much more than they would give to other ends. It is inappropriate for the AP Vojvodina budget to have 395 million, while Kosovo and Metohija alone have 80 million. Not doubting the good intentions of Minister Djelic, however, I do not think it is good that he himself deploys funds for the AP Kosovo and Metohija, a special solution at the request of the federal government committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I think this has been given too much ingenuity to the finance minister because it is about the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which is still part of Serbia and Yugoslavia. I suggest that these amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2340	No more notifications for this amendment. I am putting the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, Milorad Mircic and Branislav Blazic to the vote. For 52, against 106, the abstentions were not, were not voted 18, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2341	It is that this amendment is opposite, and I demand an increase in Article 2(2) from 395 million to 500 million. For what? Because I'm asking that the funds that he's getting in the Duke's AP be directed exclusively to the fight against orphans or corn gold. In headings 2 and 3, where it is sought up to nine months, so that the inflow of those funds would be in this year in the first half of the year, because we know that agricultural works are beginning, so that there could be destruction or attempted destruction of sorghum and corn gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2342	Is anyone answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2343	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first amendment my fellow Parliamentarian, Mr. Seselj, does not want to explain. Amendment of the MPs of the SRS. The amendment that the SRS MP criticises the government's proposal to separate 395m from the AP, asking it to be 500, and 30 seconds ago, three SRS MPs are asking for the 395 to be reduced as well. Before that, they asked us to postpone the debate on the budget, to interrupt the assembly session, until the Constitutional Court of the country, whose constitution was brutally trampled, in a country whose Constitutional Court had dissipated, became the president of the economist. Because of the public, we have a duty to clearly point out the methods of destructive obstruction. The obstructions expressed through 300 amendments, mutually opposed, contradictory amendments that should indicate that, as a Assembly, we break the law and bring society into an illegal state, in a state in which we are unable to legally finance the needs of budgetary users. The DOS parliamentary group sits and listens. He doesn't approve. Anyway, we'll find an effective method to respond to all the nonsense we face through your performances. You say you left 100 million marks in the Fund for Development of Serbia, but you left not a zero, but a minus hundreds of millions of marks in the Health Fund, you left minus 500 million marks in the PIO Fund, you left a country whose internal debt shows up in the amount of 17 billion marks, a debt to the abroad of 12 billion marks, and you already mentioned 12 pensions, 24 children's allowances, 26 grants for socially endangered families, 36 pensions for peasants, you left us a ruined country. Your condition isn't as bad as the states of those you allegedly want to account for. As this country collapsed, so did your assets, your apartments spread, your territories were shrinking, and you're finally sitting here in the parliamentary benches, and you're teaching us patriotism, you're calling us to defend Kosovo and Metohija, which you're not able to speak of with honor. Every time you take them in your mouth, you do it to dissipate the very idea of national justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2344	The replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2345	No, according to this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as a national MP and head of the parliamentary group, I answer my word to support only that amendment with which I agree. When I disagree with the amendment, I don't support it. It's different in DOS. The DOS initially says how to behave, get along, disagree, disagree, they crash. Secondly, the economist was elected president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia when the Democratic Party was in close friendly relations with the SPS, and when Serbian radicals were in Milosevic's prisons. You then, along with the Socialists, abolished privatisation, which was achieved by 1994 and returned everything to its original state. You forget history. When we were in power, the economist was not elected President of the Constitutional Court or Judge of the Constitutional Court. Nor was he chosen by the voices of Serbian radicals. As far as living space is concerned, let's see which DOS ministers have moved to the villas on Dedinj, the Kosutnjak and other exclusive places. General Perisic, Nebojsa Covic and so on. I bought my house in Batajnica in 1989, and I am ready to trade it immediately for Djindjic's apartment in downtown Belgrade. He's got two apartments? That's better. Then I can change calm souls.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2346	Don't whisper.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2347	You DOS fizzers, who burn one jeep, immediately get another jeep and so on. Tell us how well you've earned it with William Montgomery, so how can you throw yourself so well, 100,000 marks there, up here, down there, don't mean anything to you. You can't argue with any Serbian radical that he's got two or more apartments, and if he's got one apartment, then he's got the law. None of them got a villa on Dedinj or any corner of an exclusive place in Belgrade, because none of them got a villa at all. You tolerate the Deputy Prime Minister lying on TV that he's only got 120 square feet. His villa, the villa of General Perisic, is only based on 120 squares, times three floors. What can you talk about? When my amendment comes to order, then I will only tell you about Nebojsa Covic how many affairs she has. I don't mind if you arrest any former or current civil servant who's gone into crime. Just to stand up when you arrest for purely political reasons. When you're arrested for the Hague tribunal or arrested for betraying the state's secret of a police general, and with you, they're still the police generals who went on a deal with William Montgomery. I'll be against you arresting a man for bombing state television, not arresting Javier Solana. (President: Please stick to the agenda. Let's see when you start arresting criminals from your ranks. Start with Nebojska Covic. Here are hundreds of arguments for his arrest.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2348	Mr. Seselj, don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2349	Who was I insulting?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2350	The word criminal, if it's not offensive to you, maybe it is for others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2351	It's not an offensive term to me. After the bulldozer of democracy, you introduce the democracy of applause. For DOS, that's the only thing recommended. He's a criminal every one of them, and I'll always call him that for whom I have evidence that he's committed a lot of crimes and serious crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2352	You're not a public prosecutor, and please don't use offensive terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2353	I'm a politician who performs with arguments, and sometimes you warn the head of the DOS parliamentary group, who seems to be here right now in the abstinence crisis, has gone on and on the whole assembly of nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2354	Mr. Seselj, I'd like to ask you for some concentration and let us conduct this session in order. Lazar Marjanski is asking for a word. You've already spoken. What's this about? Here's your line, but at least you know what you're reporting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2355	Mr. Jovanovic, I will give you one piece of information that is correct. What does weed mean in the fields? For corn in 1996, 15 to 20% yields are lower, soybeans up to 30%, sunflower up to 35%, sugar tail up to 40%. If a million acres of corn were planted this year, it would be more than three million tons of corn. Do you know what the amount of corn is? Do you even know how much our country uses corn? If they knew that and knew what the weeds were like, they certainly wouldn't speak that way. The other thing is that you don't appreciate peasants and people from the village. (Kadomir Jovanovic needs a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2356	This was a replica of your exposure. Replication to Shessel's presentation, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2357	As for the closeness of the Democratic Party with the Socialist Party of Serbia, it was the strongest of October 5th, when we passed those of your cordons, so we met with your coalition partners, and there were no brave radicals anywhere, as in June 1999 when you disappeared from Kosovo and Metohija, because Milan Milutinovic forbade you to leave the government. Today you are criticizing the funds that are intended for his office. It's not a matter of concern for the interests of peasants, quite the opposite. We want, and we said in advance, to explain to the public that the proposed budget is small and that it is consistent with the maximum possibilities of ours, but you are criticising it as irrational, while looking for funds that would increase the amount of 390 million. As for the villa and the apartments we live in, we want all citizens to live at least the way we presently through our intentions and policies that we run, but we didn't say we were entering the government to defend Kosovo and Metohija, so like you, Mr. Nikolic, we went to a 180-square republican apartment. We did not buy our vehicles and dwellings as managers of republican funds, as members of boards of public enterprises, as people whose mouths are full of people's cares, while at the same time they do not have any touch points with the people. You have shown this relationship with the amendments in Article 2. On the one hand, you're criticizing, and on the other hand you're asking for more. When you agree within the Serbian Radical Party, when you find one who is a reasonable representative of your party, then we will be able to talk about abstinent crises, about doses, about everything that is the motive of the policy we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2358	I don't know why Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic so insists on various coalitions, alliances and inter-party co-operation from the past. Both the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party co-operated with the Socialist Party. When we did it, we did it publicly, in the declared coalition, in the Serbian government, in the federal government. When the Democratic Party collaborated with the Socialists, it was secret. Remember, Micunovic and Milosevic when Vuk Draskovic was in prison. Okay, that doesn't matter, but it's important in 1993, when Djindjic and Milosevic agreed to help Djindjic replace Micunovic and in 1993, in the early elections, Djindjic was extended to all state media, as he was promised to be Serbian Prime Minister, so in 1994, they jointly abolished the Law on Privatisation and retroactively brought everything back to its original state. In 1992. The Democratic Party was together with Socialists in the federal government, with two ministers, Mio aga Perisic and Djukanovic, who served as foreign minister. The two ministers had it in the federal government. It wasn't you who threw out the Socialists at the time, but we were the radicals who shot you all down, of course by getting the Socialists to vote against Panic's government as well. That's what's perfectly normal in political life. Secret relations with Milosevic, that is, not to say, the breaking of demonstrations in 1996 and 1997, Draskovic fights with police in the squares and streets, and Djindjic at Milosevic. What's the big deal here? I'm not accusing you of sometimes working with socialists, but not doing it transparently, as you would say, which is your favorite expression. We don't get along when we're getting along, we agree, and when we disagree, then we're against it. We get along in public and we go against each other in public. We don't do anything behind our backs, we don't cheat, we don't cheat, and of course, most importantly, our boss isn't in the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2359	Here you are, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2360	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers, as I see that there are no other members of the government, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia Group, I would like to say just a few words about what was heard in the past few minutes, and this concerns the parliamentary majority. I don't know whether the assembly majority understands it or not, but the assembly majority is now the government and by winning the December elections, the majority took responsibility for Serbia's present and future. Persistently, the entire time of the previous two days, and today we only listen to the story of the past, not of what is on the agenda, and that is the budget with the lust of the law, the consequences of those laws that will cause the lives of Serbian citizens. If the past was to be discussed, then it cannot be ignored what DOS promised before the elections, what happened since October 5th, the decline in production, inflation, prices, cannot be ignored what the government's programme is, what the content of these laws is, and please state whether there is a proposal submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia without being founded and not talking about the bad sides of the proposal submitted by the government. Don't give your qualifications. Tell me exactly what's wrong and get out for this pay phone and say that's not the case. It is our duty, as a socialist, to warn the bad side of the proposal that is on the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2361	I'm putting Ambassador Lazar Marjansky's amendment to the vote. I find that 30, against 118, abstentions 5, did not vote 16, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 2nd amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2362	Before the amendment can be explained, I'd like to have a reading of the previous debates. I only refer her to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic came out for this pay phone, with a very hot speech and was very excited to say that SRS MPs had submitted different amendments to the same member. I am the fifth SRS consignor to submit the third amendment to this same member, which differs from the previous amendments of my colleagues. Mr. Jovanovic, I'll refer you to something. You're talking about democratic processes, and look at the Serbian Radical Party. We've completed these processes a long time ago. I just want to tell you one thing, there are long-founded democratic principles in the Serbian Radical Party. The proof of that, regardless of your anger, is that five MPs have submitted three different amendments to the same article. It says enough how democratic this party is and how ready it is to express its different views for this speaker. Now I'll move on to the amendment, if you'll excuse me. Also, I have one question for myself, not so much for us. It seems to me that Minister Djelic, who is the composer of this budget, came from France. What interests me personally is whether the gentleman arrived with an aeroplan or a gentleman over Serbia released by a parachute. If he was released by a parachute, his parachute obviously didn't open. As I'm from Vojvodina, I'm going to use a localism, which says Al. The very fact that he's been drumming is proof that he's been decapitated and he's brought a budget like this. What you do not know, gentlemen, is that Mr Djelic does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated by this article. Obviously, you consider the undefined constitutional powers and authority of the AP Vojvodina. That's clearly visible from this article. The constitution is the supreme legal act of this state. It gives us about one limit and limits within which we can move. The constitution can only be changed in the constitution and other laws allowed. Apparently someone else was limited to someone else when he suggested this. To propose 395 million dinars for the needs of pre-glading and growing bureaucracy in the AP Vojvodina, and the other parties themselves to acknowledge the fact that the budget must be shifted, that it must be a burden and an economy that does not work, and the population living in difficult conditions is sufficiently talking about expertise, and especially about the expertise of French students. These 395 million dinars for Vojvodina are based on original revenues. The original income comes from income tax and corporate income tax. My suggestion is that you get reduced. By down 60%, it's from 5 to 3% per income, and from 10% to 6% on company profits, we get to that level that was close to last year. That surplus of 158 million I propose to transfer the association to division 19, to the position 124, which is for the Ministry of Culture and for the achievement of the programme in the Ministry of Culture, for the achievement of those programmes that are of capital and very important importance to this country, for the financing of the national culture programme. That's why I suggest that the administration, which would use this money, reduce its appetites, start acting more rationally and start acting more cellularly. The other side, by not understanding the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by giving, apart from the Constitution, those powers and powers that Vojvodina does not have, it is obvious that the MPs of the majority, and especially the Government, are trying to distract both this people and the MPs of the opposition. (President: time. ) It is obvious that there has been a balling (again using Lalin expressions) and that Djindjic has now kicked the ball into the car. We're waiting for Chanko's move.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2363	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2364	I think it would be wise for the finance minister to accept this amendment. I hope they follow what I'm saying for the first time. Why would that matter? I think the amendment could be corrected a little bit. It means to remain a certain amount for the province's administration, but not to provide for specific funds, i.e. special collection funds, at a certain percentage - income tax and so on - but to express it through a single budget, that this amount is greater than 100% compared to last year, because it is quite enough for the province to meet its financial needs, in line with the current constitutional and legal normative frameworks. The rest of the money, to balance the items, to stand out for the Ministry of Culture. I wouldn't do it for funding these programs, because I'm too suspicious of what Lecic's going to spend on then, but I'd like to increase the salaries of cultural employees. You DOSs have made a lot of promises to cultural followers in the election campaign before. You promised them the most. They were almost on the list for you. Now, upon coming to power, you have completely neglected them. You've predicted a billion and 300 million for the entire Ministry of Culture. That's about 100% higher than last year. Your budget's almost four and a half times as big as last year's, since we're only talking about nine months. That's why you should make one concession here, to show that you have a speck of rationality, that you are ready to respect the opposition's reasoned demands, to treat Vojvodina in accordance with the Constitution and the legal order, and to turn the surplus of this money into a truly endangered Ministry of Culture, but to finance the salaries of cultural employees, not to give too much money to Lecic himself, because of his cultural programs, we'll end up in pain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2365	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I'm putting it to a vote. For 44, against 110, the abstentions, did not vote 24, out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 2nd Amendment were submitted by MPs Đura Lazic, Sreten Mitrovica and Ljubisa Maravic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? Here you go. Do you have a share? ( Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2366	Dear Presidency, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have submitted this amendment because we believe, although that fact has just been stated, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated as a pillar of the legislation of a country. According to article 69, both the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous provinces, city halls and municipalities have their own budgets. In Article 2 of Article 4 of this proposal, I think that the Constitution has been violated and it is our proposal to delete this fourth position and instead bring a special budget for the AP Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, given the new, difficult circumstances, complex, in which our people live, to come up with the distribution of these funds according to the specific budget of the AP Kosovo. That's our proposal. I think fellow MPs and finance ministers should respect this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2367	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2368	The Serbian Radical Party will support this amendment although it seems too small for you to fund the needs of AP Kosovo and Metohija in this year of only 81 million dinars. It would be extremely wrong to leave it only as a item in the Finance Department, so that I am the minister to decide how and what to finance. Here we need to clearly determine what will be financed from this money. They're for example. municipalities where Serbia and the SRJ have remained the regulatory authority, in which a regular local self-government operates, to finance certain activities and needs that are otherwise not foreseen in the municipal budget. It is further financed by certain activities in the territory of Kosovo Mitrovica itself, Zvecana, Leposavic, Zubino Potok, Strpec, villages around Pristina, including Gracanica, Orahovac, Gorazdevac near Peća, Serbian villages around Gjilan, Vita and other places where Serbs still manage to survive. You should clearly indicate what needs are being financed, not that Momcilo Trajkovic has these money at our disposal. We know from before how he, along with his paltos, treated Vladik Artemis by playing with the Serbian fate in Kosovo in Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2369	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 108, the abstentions were not voted by 23, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 40, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Lazar Marjanski submitted. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2371	In this amendment, I demand an increase from 676 million to 750 million. There's something I need to explain. This isn't a budget increase. In the next amendment, you will see that on the analytical line 911,602 Bank Restruction Fund, we are looking for the removal of that fund and that very money, which we are looking for, with that fund being abolished, I have allocated to other parts of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2372	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 20, out of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2373	Ladies and gentlemen, the prime minister has stated the principle of justice in his presentation as one of the key principles of justice. That's not controversial. There is no MP who does not want such a principle to rule this budget. However, what is stated must be done in practice and implemented or at least, if there is no knowledge of what is happening in practice and in the field, in some ways control the situation in local self-government. With DOS coming to power, pay has been enormously increased to officials in local self-government. We can't talk about the principle of justice, when, let's say (this is at the request of the Democratic Party's board of directors), an official report was given in Beijing, since a man was probably already sick of what was going on, about the salaries of the president of the municipality, the president of the executive board, the secretary, etc. I'll read those figures to you, as official data -- the president of the municipality now has 22 thousand salaries, the president of the Executive Board also 22 thousand, secretary 21, the entire Executive Board is now professional and everyone has about 19,000. Please, when local self-government had jurisdiction, executive committees weren't professional. Now, when local self-government and no god knows what great powers, all members of the executive board have professionally at 19,000, and when the education went out to the market to strike, then they went out to give them a handkerchief and a shoulder to cry on, and said they agree with them. It's not fair, it's not correct. If the principle of justice is implemented, then it must really be implemented. Like this, pay rises enormously in those places where you've come. Gentlemen, the people voted to increase their wages, not to you, but to you, but to you, and not to them. Then we can't talk about the principle of justice in this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2374	The word has the head of the parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic (Cedomir Jovanovic from the post: I will give the speaker to Mr. Seselj, because it is the opposition. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: He had contacted earlier. You called at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2375	I tried to give political culture an advantage to the opposition's representative, since as representatives of the government we are obliged to respond to your criticism, but since you didn't want to, I leave you to speak after me. The harsh lies of the predecessor's appearance have been made. The proposed budget, the proposed law on public income and public expenditure, the proposed laws on sales tax, we impose order on the association, and those budget beneficiaries who form part of the republican administration, the province administration or part of the administration of local self-government will not be spared. The maximum wage of public sector employees, according to the law in front of you and which you could read, is 20% above the republican average. It's this social component of the budget and the bill that lies ahead of you, and it's all about the character of the critics of our projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2376	The word has the head of the parliamentary group, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I highly appreciate the efforts of the head of the DOS parliamentary group to be cultured in this National Assembly, only this time did I have to show him that the opposition is even more cultural. Otherwise, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I support this amendment, because the Republic government too much likes to play Santa Claus, that there's always some money in the note, that there's always some internal reserves, some disposition available, which it will then share as Santa Claus, by some of its criteria. Here, truth be told, these criteria will be determined by a special law, but you can't do things this wrong. First we adopt the budget, then we will only pass the laws, according to which certain budgets will be used. The budget can only be based on existing laws, which result in budget financing obligations, not that the budget foresees, futuristically planning some new commitments, which will be passed by some new yet non-existent laws. We've had a lot of things in this country so far, but we haven't had that yet. Yes, that law exists in the draft, Minister, you don't have to ask, I've seen that draft, but it hasn't been adopted. Until the law is passed, you can't plan to enforce it. Perhaps that law will fall to you in the National Assembly. You see, lately, everything hasn't been so safe for you about the vote. And secondly, what are these special purposes, for which municipalities are additional means, why are all municipalities not equal? Why aren't all municipalities financed under the same conditions and uniform law? Why is it possible for the government to give additional funds to some municipalities, which are particularly dear and likable to it? Why would that be in this budget, and it's never been before? It would be nice if once the minister made a statement about an amendment, to convince us that we were wrong, maybe we would have pulled a lot of amendments, if the minister had convinced us that we were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2378	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no 24 vote, of a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Jovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected this amendment. Does the People's MP Nebojsa Jovic want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2379	On the proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, I submitted an amendment to add Article 3, with the following text: "For municipalities with Serbian, Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja and Kursumli, additional funding for the financing of these municipalities". I will give a brief explanation - Article 3, part of the revenue provided for in Article 1 of this Act, amounting to 676 million, is allocated on behalf of additional funds to municipalities, according to criteria to be established by the Government by special law. The municipalities of southern Serbia will receive funds if they make revenues lower than the average of the Republic's budget, as well as all municipalities that meet the criteria. I believe that because of all the problems that follow these municipalities, the geographical position, the underdevelopment, the threat of Albanian terrorism, above all because of the survival of this people in these areas, additional resources should be provided. In the meaning of Article 48(2), The Law on Local Self-Government, these funds have been allocated in part, but these are insufficient funds for the functioning of these municipalities. All four municipalities have an administrative border towards Kosovo. The so-called The buffer zone, in the municipality of Kursumli, which covers 102km, is exclusively Serbian and Montenegrin villages. In order to survive these people, conditions need to be ensured. That means, you need to provide a water line, travel nets. The water will not only be drunk by a member of the SPS, and the road will not be trampled by just a member of the DOS. It is essential to provide facilities, where people in those places will live and work. In this sense, there is a letter from the Merdare local community (I think at this point you all know where Merdare is, that it is the entry into Serbia from the Kosovo side). The letter was sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia, however, until today they have not received any response, although this letter was sent to another 10.1.2001. I said, there's one drive to start, where that population would be held back. If that is not the case, I claim that in 10-15 years in that belt, from the administrative border to the city of Kursumlia, there will be no resident. The biologicals will disappear, and everyone else will move out, and there's someone yelling at that space. That's why I'm asking you to accept this amendment. I suggested it. I'm not authorized to propose a number on behalf of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, but I have proposed 10 million for the municipality of Kursumli, which I don't think is much for the population of that municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2380	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2381	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this amendment could be accepted, but perhaps it's a questionable total amount, perhaps it could be something lower in this total figure. I think it would be wise for the representatives of the government to make a correction, to come forward with their amendment, which would contain that correction, and that money provided for by Nebojsa Covic, to simply provide for the financing of special programmes of Medvedja, Bujanovac, Presevo and Kursumli, but that these municipalities should be obliged to form those programmes first, to send them to the Government for verification and to finance complete programmes with this money. So we would be relatively certain that the money will be spent smarter, if it is given into Covic's hands, then it must have failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2382	Since no one has answered the floor, I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2383	We're closing the vote. I find that 54, against 108, the abstentions, did not vote 19, and a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment's proposal refers to the part that is related to the Agrarian budget. Yesterday I announced that I would explain it as soon as I could, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, which requires citizens to respect what it has promised, should know that this promise should not be false joy, that it should be as the prime minister said in his statement - that this government will not lie and will not steal. But here's the first example where this word that's hard to say is going to be proved - a lie, but how else do we interpret it if we figure out the next word? The agricultural budget of 5 billion and 100 million dinars is significantly lower by participation in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia compared to last year's budget of 5.7% in the total amount of the budget, and now this participation is 3.9%. In order to explain his proposal, why 5 billion and 100 million dinars, I suggest that it be 6 billion and 630 million dinars, which is 30%, which I believe is quite realistic in terms of what agriculture and our resources are related to agriculture, which are forestry and water economy, deserve. I'll give a brief explanation of my amendment. This is primarily proposed in order to increase agricultural production, in particular to improve livestock farming, healthy animal welfare, forest management and hunting, land management, maintenance and protection of water-based facilities and hydromelioration systems, continued dam construction and water storage, as well as protection of water quality. I'm just going to document these parallel indicators with a few facts. In the last 10 years, which this authority has been called upon to do nothing, I can freely conclude on the basis of analysis of studies, which was done by the competent institute, and he has this authority, that it is a period of pronounced droughts, primarily in months when the vegetation season and when agriculture, and what is related to agriculture, depends heavily on the weather. For this reason, the catastrophic droughts that were expressed during this period, especially last vegetarian season, have caused catastrophic disasters that have caused azas to primary agricultural production, where the total amount of damage was around 20 billion dinars. With regard to this water regime, with regard to the occurrence of Serbia's dry periods and to the protection of the use of the irrigation system, a total of 180,000 hectares of protection systems were built in Serbia, of which approximately 100,000 hectares were periodically irrigated, significantly less than the total percentage of the orange surfaces, which is about 2.6% of the orange surfaces, including orange areas in Kosovo and Metohija. Due to this state of construction and inefficient use of the bay systems, and according to global indicators of average annual damage during the drought over the last 10 years, it can be concluded that during the medium dry period of 5 years, total average production is lost, and here I mean wartime and other cultures, and therefore appropriate production in the processing, food and meat industry. It can also be noted that the average annual drought damage far exceeds the estimated annual investment in the revitalisation of existing and construction of new irrigation systems. I have to say that this segment of proof is why the Agrarian budget should be more relevant to the agricultural segment. If what happens is that wartime production is compromised, that livestock production is compromised and that this is the fact that our stock fund has been ruined, that at this moment on land in Pancheva, Belgrade and in other parts of our cattle are dying and all of this needs to be protected, above all, by the inequitable amount of animal protection funds and the improvement of war production. This leads to higher investments in improving and using agricultural areas, for co-consummation, arondation, melioration, protection of hydromellation systems. About irrigation and water supply, not to mention. From a dry period like this, and we have it announced by 2020, that it will continue to be and that Serbia will have water problems, expert analyses of speech, which the Chamber of Commerce, the Committee on Water, Forestry and Agriculture has repeatedly shown and delivered to all institutions, Serbia has a water problem. Water and what is important, what goes with water, which is life in these areas of ours, requires that the multi-purpose accumulations of Selov, Bovan and Prnek should be treated and functioned. For that reason, and for the reasons I'm going to say about the amendments I've submitted, I can see that I'm running out of time, but time is interesting for you, too, because you live on this country... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And it depends on you how you live and how you vote, because what you've told our citizens and our peasants, it should be in your interest as well. What the Prime Minister said yesterday, that we should unite and vote for what life is, and life is this country and this, life on earth lives not only for people, but also for what goes to help our citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is to pay more attention to agrarians, agriculture, water and forestry because it is a national treasure and it needs every country to rise. If you'd like... (President: Please finish, the sixth minute has passed. ....................................................................................................... To be unique, here I am, then you should vote for an increase in the Agrarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2386	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be accepted and there is an immediate possibility that it will fit into the draft budget law. In Section 6, the Ministry of Finance, there is an item -- the current budget reserve. It amounts to 7 billion 957 million dinars. It is no problem to move 800 million from there immediately to increase the Agrarian budget, and this will not endanger the current budget reserve. Otherwise, the finance minister doesn't need this kind of budget reserve unless he has some special plans to use it. It is indicative that there are no ministers at this session, especially the Minister of Agriculture. In the past decade, we have sometimes had a professional and competent agriculture minister, but mostly these ministers did not have the strength and determination. Now, not only does the minister have no strength and determination, but he's not competent either. He's talking about a herd of cows yesterday, and cows can't be in the herd, they can't be in the herd. Then he talks about a herd of two cows, two sheep can't be a herd, but our minister doesn't know, and he doesn't care about the Agrarian budget. He's had the same story for 10 years, and that story goes out from this or some other pay phone, he swears to the peasants. However, where it is necessary to show that it really cares about agricultural producers, to advocate their interests, that, according to the amendments concerning the interest of farmers, it is not available at all. Maybe after the break, he'll come, but then he's already cut.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2387	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I am putting MP Miomir Ilic's amendment to the vote. For 60, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 14 and a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Jovan Todorovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance, as well as by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately this debate is not attended by the Minister of Agriculture, and we MPs and MPs of the SRS propose an increase in the Agricultural Budget, given that we fully understand the situation and understand the importance of agriculture for this country. Unfortunately, he also said yesterday that he was satisfied with the amount of funds set for the Agrarian budget and I see no reason for his satisfaction. This amendment was proposed in order to increase the meetings foreseen for the Agrarian budget from 500,000 dinars to 6,100,000, with the reason that most of these funds are used for the development of fruit growing. Now legal solutions in the Agrarian budget and the purpose of these funds do not provide for the development of fruit growing. Our peasant says, if you're thinking of a year, then you're sowing grain, if you're thinking about ten years old, then you're planting fruit. Within that fruit, the Members of Parliament, raspberries and blackberries are export-oriented agricultural products, for which there is a market in the world, above all in Western Europe. Given that we have such a situation that our export economy is not working and that exporters are essentially not according to this 30 dinar rate stimulated for export, it would be advised that the finance minister and other competent ministers consider the possibility of increasing the budget for this purpose. Besides, if they feel that these billion dinars are too much of an increase in the fruit development budget, then there may be other items in the framework of the Agricultural budget that should also be increased. For example, one such example is water supply, and we saw in the explanation of the Agrarian budget law that the reconstruction and construction of the waterway was envisaged in 199 municipalities, and that only 400 million dinars were defined for that purpose. Gentlemen of Parliament, there is no development of the village without investment in agricultural production and without creating basic and elementary conditions for the life of peasants in the country. There is no way for young people to stay in the country unless we build them roads, homes, schools, waterways, sewers and other municipal facilities, which are mentioned here in the Agrarian budget at a small amount, with little resources defined for that purpose. It would be good if these water supplies, among other things, were allocated to those municipalities that at this point could produce increased agricultural production in the fruit sector, not only when it comes to raspberries and blackberries, but also when it comes to plums. I want to remind you all that at the time of Milos Obrenović, the plum was one of the attractive export products our country could offer Europe. I don't see any reason why this Ministry of Agriculture and this government didn't commit itself, so it still happens. In the context of this incentive for fruit growing, we could also think about the fact that it is a particularly attractive product, as well as on foreign markets, for example in Italy, it is very much sought, and also on our domestic market. Then, as Government, we would have to be prepared to invest the necessary resources for the construction of droughts and suitable plants for the drying of plums. All in order to have a stronger stay of young people in the country, to ensure that farmers live better than they are now, and that at the same time as the National Assembly, as a government and as responsible people, we repay to the villagers for all that they have done in the interest of stabilizing the country at the time of the most severe sanctions, at the time of the bombing and at the time of the need to transfer one part of the burden to the peasants to a greater extent, so we could now get the funds back in some way. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2389	You five can't replace the president. This isn't about trust, you've declared yourself deputy president of the parliamentary group, for a little while as representative of the parliamentary group. You have two proposings, and you have a president and a deputy president of the parliamentary group. (Freed Pavlovic, from the place, do you not trust?) And only Bogdanovic wanted that thing for the Belgrade facilities. A short time ago, your colleague took advantage of it. It's not about the amendments, it's about the agenda. I'd love to, but I think it'd be too much. Does the other promoter want to take the call? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2390	Mr. President, I think the level of separation from the Agrarian budget is really low for what we should do at this point in the field of agricultural development. First of all, because we all agree with the fact that agrar is the basis that made us sorry for this previous very, very difficult period for our cause. I will remind my fellow MPs that all states have protective measures for their agriculture, and such small redundancies for the Agrarian budget we will do the opposite. To make the situation worse, I must remind you that a set of tax laws will further burden the agricultural producer, who will have to allocate more for his health and pension insurance and, in my humble opinion, will not be in a position to provide himself with exactly that. And that's pension and health insurance. In order for the matter to be even worse, the measures of the Federal Government concerning the liberalisation of imports and exports of agricultural products will further burden farmers with the exposure of our agriculture with very severe conditions of competition from abroad. This is another piece of evidence that our country is not adequately treated, does not treat our agriculture protectively, and that our agriculture will survive a very difficult blow to this set of laws. I must remind you that the situation that was created by the wrong measures of imports of artificial fertilisers has brought some into a very, very difficult state, because individuals who wanted to be supplied with artificial fertilizer because they were abroad, in other countries, some of them, back without what they went to return it to artificial fertilizer. They lost their cars. The situation has been further worsened by the large droughts that occur in last year's period. I have to tell you that already some rivers in the pyrotic area have already dried up, and as it will be in the summer period, we can only assume. As a result, an initiative was launched at the Pirot Municipality Assembly to ask for additional assistance from the Republic regarding the construction of a irrigation system, and in addition to the fact that we are all aware that only 2% of the surfaces, processed surfaces in Vojvodina are irrigated. I also have to say that a plan for the construction of a working surface irrigation system in Pirot was developed far away in 1996, but to this day it is not realised. In the end, I need to introduce you to the fact that expectations that foreign donations will contribute greatly to the development of agriculture should not be taken seriously and to give an example that the G17 plus in our area has carried out one action to obtain ballad and corn, but there is nothing since the Assembly of the Municipality has already cancelled its support. She didn't want to be guaranteed one of those programs, and there's nothing. So get in and into your beaks. I think the minimum increase in the Agrarian budget to six billion and 100 million will be just one small effort to support our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2391	I apologize to the chairman, too, to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, and otherwise I insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure and order at the session. What I was about to say is only to support the amendments proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, which refers to part of the Agrarian budget, is to the part from which water supply facilities are financed. This is in favour of the proposal to increase the Agrarian budget, and the particular reason for my reporting is to continue the construction of the regional water pipeline Makiš-Mladenovac, as one of the vital investments of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade. The regional water pipeline Makish-Mladenovac has been built for more than ten years. It is an object that should be completed to permanently address the problem of supplying half of Belgrade, six city municipalities of Kukarica, Voždovac, Grocka, Mladenovac, Sopot etc. There are over 100 inhabited areas under the Avala region, under the Cosmaj area, as components of the city of Belgrade that are threatened by water supply, which is why business activities cannot take place, as there is no orderly water supply in these municipalities, etc. It's over half a million people. Yesterday, in principle, I mentioned an object of special interest to the Republic of Serbia, where Serbia otherwise participated in construction. This is one of the systems provided for in this ministry, a colleague mentioned a figure a little while ago, which is otherwise financed by 50% of the republican funds, and 50% provides the city and municipalities of which it is concerned. So my whole story and my pledge is that this is particularly potent and that the budget provides the funds to continue the work on this facility and resolve the issue of water supply, and I agree with a colleague who just spoke. In the 20th century, I've been a professional in these jobs for 30 years, it's been a century of oil, and the 20th century will be a century of water.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2392	Is anyone else on this amendment coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to the vote, the amendment of the People's MPs Dragan and Todorovic and Jovan Todorovic. For 58, against 115, no one was abstentioned, no vote was taken by 8, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment, the representative of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, want a word? No, I don't. Is there anyone else to say? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I ask you to be clear about the amendment of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. For 34, against 131, three abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2393	The amendment is a real opportunity at this time before lunch and this break, as well as what it refers to, as suggested, of which this people will live rather than from the donations you have proposed. I can only raise one question here, and this is what I have suggested in this amendment, to add the revenues that are in line with the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget, which is that the budget deficit in general will be financed from real resources, projected to ensure that the deficit funding will be secured from the privatisation of 10 billion dinars and foreign donations and loans of 12 billion dinars. In order to continue what I was saying because of the budget deficit, I suggested that the budget deficit and the budget deficit should be precisely declared by the government and proposed in Article 6, and I proposed this to the amendment, meaning that these funds would provide cover for the 2001 budget deficit. Also, I'd like to say that I'm not clear that he split up 14 - the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad - costs 32.9 million and that he should make donations to someone. According to this, we have turned out to be a truly developed country with a developed budget that will give someone donations, not that will make donations and provide funds in this budget. Also in position 77, and also in the balance sheet, a item required from this budget is shown to provide funds for the payment of these donations. I mean really a little tenduous and really incomprehensible. I also think that what's said, that this is a budget in nine months, I think there are certain problems and items that don't exist at this point, and by law there should be. I don't know what's wrong with the fixed budget reserve, which is 0.5% under the new bill, and by law it was 1%. Does leaving out the budget reserve mean that so far they have left you those funds in the budget, which were legally foreseen, that the budget fixed reserve is not being paid if 10% of the total original revenue of the budget is provided, which means that one such item does not exist here in the budget, and by the income balance, it is somewhere around 650 million dinars for this year. I understand this, I've worked for 20 years and you'll see if you understand or not, and I'd ask you not to throw it away, because I've been correct to everyone. If you don't, cut your bellies a little bit, because you've had enough of the communists and the Central Committee and city committees to live and grow your bellies, not just us who were never members. So, the one most protesting, he had the greatest privileges. In that sense, there's no need for me to lead the controversy. Anyway, for now my stomach is the way I think it should be, and the people don't complain about my stomach. Someone's time used to be when they had the same stomachs. We see it's not the same now. Whose bellies will be after all this and whoever survives will survive, someone will lose their stomachs, and someone with a full stomach. Finally, in order to create the government's commitments, which it itself took when proposing its programme, I have also proposed that the budget revenues on the budget, what you have most scolded the Socialists, are the other revenues that are clearly undefined, that they be precisely expressed and that the budget balances on the income side will be put in from privatisation and from foreign donations, as you have written in the explanation of this budget, and not that these funds will not be accounted for by the budget's beneficiaries. (President: time. ) Also, I suggest that at least these donations, which are foreseen in the bulky part of the budget, within the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, when we fund it, we delete these donations and don't fool ourselves in this budget. However, the budget is a combination of science and experience. I think the people who have proposed this budget and the Ministry of Finance have really invested a lot of attention to propose this budget. There is no big difference between this and the previous budgets, except for those items that have never appeared before and had no legal foothold. So, I suggest you accept this amendment in order to ensure the legal financing of public revenue balances in the 2001 budget. Thank you. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2394	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I'll put this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment of MP Ljubomir Mucic. I find that 50, against 113, were held, did not vote seven, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. That's what we do in the morning. We'll continue the session at 3:30. [[continuing after break - 15.35 lessons]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please place your cards in the MPs' units to determine if we have a quorum and if we can continue our work. We have a quorum. We continue our work by considering the legal budget in particular - on Article 6. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2397	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment, which actually contains two amendments, but one member is really big, so there can be only one amendment, I wanted first to point out one inaccuracies in the law, which is, although amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government are foreseen that funds from property taxes, taxes on the transfer of absolute rights and taxes on the use and carrying of certain goods belong entirely to municipalities, these revenues are collected until the entry into force of the new law on local self-government. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government will be on the Assembly's agenda, but will certainly not be adopted until 31 March this year. So the budget was supposed to predict what would happen to the funds, with the amount of more than 25% now belonging to municipalities and cities from the property tax, what would happen to those funds until the law was passed that all these funds would belong to the municipalities. The current law clearly states that 75% of the property tax goes to the Republic's budget. The new law stipulates that 100% of the property tax goes to municipalities, but in this vacuum, until the new law arrives, the old one is applied. When the old is applied, the Republic's budget is being pooled with the property tax. The government did not earn them, did not show them in revenue, and the question is whether they would appear in some division of which the National Assembly and those taxpayers who are full of budgets know nothing about. I couldn't imagine what the number would be because I don't know when a new law would be passed. I don't want to justify myself with a slip, because there's a number I didn't mean, but it's irrelevant in the end because it was important just to point out that the government might be able to regulate the transitional and final provision by amendment, what will happen until it is. At the same time, I suggested changing point 2. It's in expenditures. Yeah, it's the same member. You know why, Article 6 is huge. Yeah, he's the same member, and I have a right to explain him. I suggested that at point 2. The expenditures, in Section 6 - Business Subsidy - the amount of three billion is deleted and the amount of 13 billion and 500 million dinars is entered. You know very well how much money we're going to need to rebuild the war-torn economy, and if you're already planning a budget so that there are some resources that will come from donations why you didn't dare predict in this budget the funds that would come from the countries that broke us down in aggression. Why didn't you, like the government that took over the country, which is unjustly,.... (speaks - theme) It's all about the subject, except you're illiterate. Why didn't you, as the government that took over the country they bombed, predict how much war damage you'd charge. And why, since you are working with them, we have fought against them, and you cooperate with them, that is, we have defended this country, and you have taught them how to bomb and how long to bomb...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2398	Mr. Nikolic, please, let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2399	Don't ask me anything. You have no reason. You have...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2400	Then I warn you to talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2401	... A lot of things, bells, microphones, warn the MPs first that they don't get me, and then I'll probably keep talking about what was the topic. When these people stop earning, I'll stop answering their pitches. But since full co-operation with the NATO Pact has been established, you are preparing to enter the Partnership for Peace, do you have conditions that you can put into the budget here? Are the conditions laid down for the settlement of war damage or the acts of war damage that certainly exist in this country, which are owed to us by those with whom you are now cooperating? You know, it's cynical when you predict that someone's gonna give you donations to feed the kids, and if they hadn't bombed us, we shouldn't be feeding our kids anywhere. We'd do it ourselves. We'd have enough resources. It would be much better to think about it when you're making a budget, naked about having to kneel and beg for some small help, and to forgive them for something that the Serbian people will never forgive or forgive. That's why I suggested that the government of the Republic of Serbia be one brave, one determined government, to say - from the NATO Pact we'll ask for the settlement of the war's damage. War damage in America is estimated at 100 billion, over us is estimated at 100, and you estimate it at 20. There's evidence that it's between 20 billion and 100 billion. All the municipalities, all the districts, they listed the damage. Show the income from the NATO Pact, their conscience-washing, help you as a new government to raise Serbia to your feet, so that no one will ever take you out of power again. Show it in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Put these funds exclusively into an economy that has been destroyed by war.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2402	Is anyone else on this amendment answering for a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment points to a major problem caused by the draft budget law. The construction of a legal order in one country, building material, makes up all the legal regulations, all the legal norms that apply, above all, the law. In order for the legal order to be coherent and stable, consistent, all laws must be mutually harmonised. There can't be colitision between them. There may be colitision somewhere, but then there's a mechanism to correct it quickly and efficiently. Of course, within the legal order, there is the principle that "legal specialis derogat back generalis". Special law can make exceptions, but budget law can't be a back-up specialise in any variant. And when a budget law is passed, it must comply with all existing laws within one legal order. The budget law must not treat any desire, idea or political attitude, as if it were realised in practice and already translated into legal norm. In this budget law, you predict funding for something you're just planning to sanction by law. That can't possibly happen. Therefore, this budget law, if you vote today, cannot survive in legal traffic. Now, the problem is, who's the one who's gonna figure it out? Milan Milutinovic won't, because he was "down on the ore" as soon as you mentioned the canaderas to him, he immediately kneeled on his knees before you. The Canadians and we mentioned it earlier, only then was it much stronger. We don't have a constitutional court. Of the nine judges, there are four. You deliberately, in fact, abolish the legal order. You're bringing an anti-constitutional and illegal budget law, and you've previously abolished a state body that's only authorized to say that something is against the constitution or illegal. What's that, then? Elemental logic testifies that it's a specific visual impact. You're in continuum with a major blow. Sometimes it's bulldozers, and sometimes with legal violence, but there's no difference in effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2404	Is anyone else on this amendment answering for a word? He's not answering. I am putting the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment by voting. For 59, against 126, there were no abstentions, no three MPs voted, a total of 188. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2405	Dear Presidency, honourable government members, honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment aimed at increasing the amount of funds for the Republic of Serbia's Development Fund. The same proposal had several MPs, in the sense that more funds should be provided for the recovery of the economy. However, my amendment is heading towards providing this fund with more funding for regional development, as funds for regional development are being provided from this fund. What is proposed is really insufficient, given that 37 municipalities in Serbia are underdeveloped. It is known which municipalities - in the hill-mounted area, in the border area, areas that are far from developed business centres and Lim-Raška area with a mixed national composition of the population. We have a phenomenon that these municipalities are lagging behind in development, not that they're approaching the republican average, but are becoming increasingly lagging behind. We have an extremely pronounced population migration there, and it's not just a village, it's leaving the area. It's an empty area, almost in most municipalities. That's what's worrying, because people see there's no perspective. To survive there, they must have the opportunity to see that they can get a job tomorrow, that they can live, etc. It's causing a lot of tension. This creates an economically difficult set of circumstances, so social stability threatens and ultimately reflects this on the political situation. If they were to stand out a little bit more, people would stay. They'd be happy, they realize the situation as it is, and in any case, they're emptying out that area, so tomorrow and if we can isolate more, it'll be too late, because we have no one to single out for. It should be one of the strategic issues for Serbia. Finally, that is what the Constitution predicted, to take care of regional development. We also have a law on undeveloped areas by 2005. Both the most developed countries, and the EU countries take care of their regional development and allocate funds. And it really should provide priority resources for this. In my proposal, I was very modest, starting with the difficult economic situation, that citizens are burdened, but I think it is reasonable to at least stand out in the same proportion as last year provided in the budget 0.7%, and not as is now proposed - 0.4%. And just that suggestion to accept, so, with all this understanding, that would be about 400 million more. I'm starting from the fact that the amendment is really explained for a lot of reasons, there's an excuse to accept it, and I hope it gets support.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2406	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment should be accepted, because it is obvious that the Republic government's position to invest in economic development is completely neglected. The government doesn't care about that at all. She predicted more money for Nebojsa Covic than for the Development Fund. It's her order of size and it's her classification of values. By doing so, the government is expressing itself, its essence, and its intentions. Secondly, you see here that this co-ordination body of Nebojka Covic is formulated as a joint co-ordination body of the Federal and Republic Government, and only 500 million is from the republican budget. Where in the federal budget is the item for that of Covic's co-ordination body? She's gone. That's where they didn't think to single out a dime. Here, Covic was able to turn you around, through some political trade, to Covic 500 million and everything is fine. I'll ask all of you, including Krapovic. Don't worry, you always confuse me, and I'm a confusing nature. Here we have one amendment that the item foreseen for the Development Fund can double immediately, if the little finance minister calls to his senses, and gives up giving up 500 million dinars to Nebojsa Covic. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2408	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, we're going to vote. Please state the amendment of MP Radojko Petric, by voting. For 59, against 124 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, and a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2409	Mr. President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I will be quite specific here and explain why I submitted this amendment. To be honest, I must say that the Health and Family Committee has also rejected this amendment, but only on one vote. I think there's a need to pay attention to a problem that's already in place, and there's a danger of being even bigger. In practice, my proposal is that in Section 4, these are special-purpose funds in the field of health -- the amount of the proposed 171 million 800 000 dinars, up by 600 million, where the total amount would be 771 million 800,000 dinars. It is certain that one of the reasons that encouraged me to write such an amendment and yesterday's opening statement to our prime minister, as well as the government's insistence that one of the top priorities in the work of this government is health care, which I most sincerely welcome. Why did I say this like this? Because there is one serious problem in small urban and rural areas for professional staff, and not only for doctors of general practice, and specialists, but also more and more are medical technicians. Besides, it's nothing new, we had a chance to read the statement the other day and the director of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, which says he is currently missing 300 nurses. With these means, it would practically be provided about 300 apartments, quare aturas of 55 m2, at current current prices, and I'm sure it would be one more motive for young people to go to work in smaller urban areas. I know that many of you here who are from university centres will say that even this profile has a surplus, but, please, what's a way for a young man to get into a smaller environment, to build his own future, as well as his expertise that I guarantee he certainly has conditions, if he can't provide that basic existential problem, and that's the apartment. At this point, I explain this first, because I come from North Banat County, from a region that lacks a very large number of doctors, and in Kickindi itself, there are 15 doctors of general practice missing. In one 15 official competitions for job filling, no one reported, and it would be a miracle that, when the starting salary of doctors is general practice at the moment of 4.29,000 dinars and nurses are 2.574.00 dinars. You will admit that even in conditions where you have your roof over your head, monthly survival is very disputable, and if one of the experts should come to the association to work while paying for someone else's roof over your head, it's hard to decide to change the environment. I agree, the prime minister said -- a concrete proposal. One joke, like a man who's been in health care for 24 years, I'd say 100 million dinars are transferred from every health fund. I'm not a financial expert. We have financial experts in the government, so if we don't find an opportunity to fill this fund, I would suggest that it be part of the budget deficit, so instead of planned, as it says in the material, but today we hear that even more after the excise cuts, 21 billion 769 million dinars are calculated and that it is 22 billion 369 million dinars. If the government manages to secure from donor funds what it was before, I'm sure this 600 million would not be a big problem, and it would mean a lot to solve human health problems. To the truth, it has been noted that the fictitious amount for health care in the budget for this year has been significantly increased, but the fact that it will be experienced will depend on real reflection and on our patients, as well as on those who are employed in health care. I'm also quite sure, that's how it's gonna be, and that's how it's gonna be -- health care professionals always do their best for the benefit and quality of the patient's life. I want our patient to get everything. He has the right to a quality of life as a healthy man. One more thing, I'm afraid we're not going to make it happen without any expert personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2410	Anyone else, please, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2411	Mr. Chairman, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if anything is missing from this budget, he lacks the principle of solidarity. Please measure well when deciding on this amendment that colleague Dacin has made, because that's exactly what this is about. It's not just solidarity with those areas that are deficient, not only when it comes to health care, but when it comes to people in education, so I don't go out twice, I'm talking about it now, because there's going to be an amendment when it comes to development in education, but also solidarity with young people. What happens in our country is what happens in every country, which is that young people finish colleges, universities, they love and want to stay. This amendment, if adopted, will create an opportunity for undeveloped areas, areas that are deficited with young people, to further motivate them and to bring them in fact one advance in the decision-making process to go somewhere and actually do work for which they were educated, to be good to them, to be good to that environment, and to essentially develop them as experts. So our suggestion is not only in the field of health but also in the field of education, to think about this principle of solidarity towards areas that are deficited in human beings and towards these young people who, further motivated, will decide to start making and working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2412	The position of the entire government and the Health Committee on this amendment shows that the Serbian government is simply not interested in the health situation. DOS was in healthcare until he came to power. And then he criticized maximum, promised towers and cities. The DOS has been in power for six months, the health situation is much worse than it has been, and the relationship to this amendment and otherwise the health care treatment in the planned budget for this year shows that the government has no serious intention of repairing the situation there. In particular, there is no intention of repairing the situation in smaller places, in rural hospitals, small towns, where even so far, citizens simply could not get adequate health care, there were no medications, there are almost no instruments. DOS officials were just moaning around a place in the ministry and the Health Fund, and when they met their appetites, the situation was not as bad as it was, it was much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2413	If no one ever answers their words again, I'm putting the amendment of the MP of Zivodarka Dacin to the vote. For 63, against 123, no one abstained, voted 10, a total of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to Article 6 was also submitted by MPs Đura Lazic, Sreten Mitrovica and Ljubisa Maravic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2414	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, since you have not observed the objection to the appointment of Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of a specific budget for Kosovo and Metohija, I had the need to submit with counterparts Mitrovica and Maravic this amendment, which concerns Article 6 of the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In this amendment, we propose that the amount envisaged for the AP, and that amount is foreseen for the AP Kosovo and Metohija of 80,880,000 dinars, to increase this to 210,00,000. Why? This amount contained in the draft budget law is equal to last year's amount, given the additional difficult circumstances in which our people are located, given that many of the cost of life has increased, given that many people, Serbs and Montenegrins are internally displaced in Kosovo and Metohija, many houses are destroyed to the ground, and are situated in neighbouring Serbian villages, where there are many Serbian villages, and many call them enclaves. Many people live with relatives, friends, and certain plots have been made and projects have been designed to build assembly facilities, to accommodate, to house these people temporarily, and there are a large number of people who would return to those environments, where Serbian villages are concentrated. So we think that of these funds, that through the Development Fund, they get into the realisation of these projects, to build these houses, and to help solve these people's issues, whose houses have been destroyed, who have lost their roof over their heads and those who want to return to those spaces. I think it's an obligation for all of us to accept a gesture like this, to help these people get back there, to those spaces, and to give them what kind of accommodation. In addition to the need for additional resources for the uptake of life, these people who live there and who want to return should be helped. This amount, I think, is not great in the context of the total amount of the budget, but it will do much to help the Serbian people who are in Kosovo and Metohija and those who would like to return, if they are allowed such a roof over their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2415	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2416	Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting the 2001 budget of 127 billion dinars, and it has been said that last year's budget was about 32 billion, he was said to have had special positions, and these special positions were legally passed for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the country, nearly 20 billion for the Kolubar District since the earthquake. When it's added up, everything's about 52-53 billion. So the budget went up from 52 to 53 billion from 2000 to 127 billion. What happens to the position for Kosovo and Metohija? First, for the first time in this country's history, the AP Kosovo and Metohija budget are not being passed. It is placed as one single position at the disposal of the finance minister to propose to the government. It remains at the same financial amount as last year. Are we giving up Kosovo and Metohija? Do we want to create conditions that the Serb people who stayed there can live and work? Do we know that there are citizens in Leposavic, Prizren, and in Peća, both in Podujevo and Pristina? Do we know how to live in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, where, by force, with the help of some of our people from here, confidence zones are established, which after seven days become Serb-free zones. Why are we doing this? Why don't we start here to finally discuss the south of Serbia, the moves of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which are not at all verified in the Serbian parliament. Please, at least do that, increase the funds in the same amount as the percentage increase in the budget. Tell Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that this assembly thinks of them, that it wants to help them, and the functioning of their local self-government, that it wants to create conditions for the return of the Serb and Montenegrin population in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2417	Your restrictive Rules of Procedure prevented the rest of the SRS from speaking on amendments, so since the only one as head of the parliamentary group has that right, you've made me speak 100, 200, 300, 400 times today. How many amendments do we have? 400? Well, I guess I'll be able to speak 300 times, and I'd rather share it with my colleagues, but that's your Rules of Procedure. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, I have already said it was wrong to leave only one position in the division of the 80m dinar Ministry, intended for Kosovo and Metohija, instead of the Kosovo and Metohija budget, and that I am the minister who decides how it will deploy. However, the amount is very low. About 100,000 Serbs now live in Kosovo and Metohija, some Gorans, Roma, Muslims. (From the O.R.: Albanians. ) Where Albanians live, there is someone else making a budget and someone else financing it. I haven't forgotten the Egyptians, of course, 100,000 people, and 80 million dinars. In these Serb municipalities and enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija, no company is nearly working. The people have nothing to live on but the help of the Serbian government. The people stayed there to guard Serb hearths. While the 100,000 Serbs there, Serbia has a serious deed to Kosovo and Metohija. You foresaw 500 million Nebojsa Covic, just laugh, sometimes that smile is frozen, and for all Serbian enclaves, all Serbian municipalities are only 80 million, 6 times less. Who needs you money more? First of all, you didn't convince us why Covic had 500 million, there were no individual items. Where's he gonna spend that money? Here you have reduced the amount below every minimum tolerable and this shows the nature of your authority, and I will tell you about Covic today and tomorrow and as long as it takes, because Nebojsa Čovic is the right picture and opportunity of the DOS government, your legitimacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2418	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2419	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using my right to once again point to the malignancy of the opposition towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, to the most tragic part of our national being, who is currently living in Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about precedents, even if this was the first state budget, unlike the parties that have been passed so far, about the precedent when the first time the government's Autonomous Region and Metohija expenditure is deleted, it is up to us to consider why there are no more bodies in Kosovo and Metohija that would be financed through the province's budget. What are the republican authorities, i.e. the province authorities of the Serbian state, which would be financed through the budget in the way in which the Autonomous province of Vojvodina is financed? You say there are 100,000 Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Many more Serbs lived before your government in Kosovo and Metohija. You're saying there are these budget users this government doesn't want to worry about. That's not true. All budget users will be financially subdued through the government's efforts to replace the real ability of the Republic of Serbia to function within the constitutional rights given to it and which envision the functioning of the province's authorities. In Kosovo and Metohija, the Republic of Serbia does not function to the extent to which it is prescribed by the Constitution because of the disastrous policy that you have led and in front of the citizens of Serbia, we are obliged to say that this is a precedent, but a precedent that is due to your authority and that we will certainly do our utmost to see clearly in the 2002 budget that budget users in Kosovo and Metohija will be financed through the Constitution of the envisaged authorities, so that you can see how the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja will be financed together and that there are no specific needs and that there is no need for the existence of a co-ordination body. In any case, I would ask that from the pitet to everything that is tragic and at this point in that part of our country you do not abuse the extent to which you are doing so far, the problems that are the real consequence of your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2420	You are not mentioned, Mr. Seselj is not mentioned, by function, by name, or by MP group. So, abuse of a pay phone in the Rules of Procedure, that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2421	There is an exact provision in the Rules of Procedure that says that if a parliamentary group is offended because of the appearance of the previous one, it can go on a replica. As president of the parliamentary group, because of the comments made by the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group, I am asking you for the right to reply, because it is said - the malignancies came forward and directly referred to Mr Seselj and myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2423	Since I hear behind my back that he's getting complaints from the chairman of the Assembly that he gave me his word, that I'm not bringing him into an awkward situation, I'm not going to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2424	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to replicate Mr. Jovanovic, because it was clear that he was addressing the opposition. He didn't have to mention the exact name, but he mentioned the function, the function of the government. The Serbian Radical Party has done everything in its power to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Power wasn't enough for us, unfortunately. From whom did we defend Kosovo and Metohija? From you and your allies from the NATO Pact and you DOS won us for the first time, and the second time in September. You managed to defeat us and occupy Kosovo and Metohija, because you are the same as the NATO Pact. I see that you have a very difficult time putting up with the opposition in this House and you are so irrevocable that the opposition is resilient, that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are, above all, resilient in political reckoning with you that you do not choose even the most dirty means to make mistakes. This is a dirty tool that's been served today. He handed this one to your Georgia Maric Marici Savic, who was the deputy secretary of the previous meeting. She stayed in labor until 27th. The congregation has never resolved it. The new deputy secretary has not been elected, and she has been fired with an explanation - amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are prescribed to appoint a deputy secretary to the National Assembly, and his function ceases by establishing the newly elected National Assembly. It's a retroactive application of the Rules of Procedure. Next, the solution to the termination of the employment relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2425	You said the replica to Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2426	Two sentences, please. I hope this isn't so embarrassing for you that you can't just hear two more sentences. I'm not gonna be answering any of these five amendments, so allow me to take these two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2427	I ask the MPs to let Mr. Seselj finish his sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2428	The decision on the termination of the working relationship was made on 27 March 2001 because of the newly adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and because the newly appointed secretary of the National Assembly informed Marica Savic in writing of its working-law status, in order to give her time for possible actions, which she had not responded to at all. Next, this is the highlight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2429	Don't get high after three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2430	This is very funny to you. I see only Neda Arnerić is not laughing, she has not yet understood, you must repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2431	Just speed it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2432	So this way the appointment was just done so that this late solution wasn't to her harm. On the contrary, it is in its favour. The solution was made when conditions were met, i.e. when amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were adopted, which created a legal basis for making such a solution. First, you see what kind of secretary you have. Ugo, you see how sneezed you are at the SRS and that you don't choose the means to misjudge us. Third, immediately after the constitution of the National Assembly, the SRS submitted a request to the president or secretary, that Marica Savic be deployed as an adviser to our parliamentary group, and by systematization we have the right to one adviser. You didn't want to bring that solution, you wanted to bring in a woman with 45 years of life, 20 years of employment, an excellent lawyer, with two children, you're firing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2433	Finally, we can go back to what we're here for, and that's the debate about the law, in particular. Minister Djelic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2434	I'd just like to give a few facts about Kosovo and Metohija. For Kosovo and Metohija, it is 80.8 million, and that is money for the professional services of the province's authorities. To this should be added, Article 3rd point 1, 676 million, as point 2 shows - the schedule of these funds is carried out by the government's decision. I can tell you that the bill shows, because of the specific situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government of the SRJ, respects the United Nations Security Alliance resolution 1244, which was adopted in the former regime. These are the facts and that is the situation inherited by this power. We're handling it. By the way, in that section, we predicted an additional 404 million dinars. The third thing I would like to mention, all those who have been employed by state authorities or public services, whether they are in Kosovo today or, unfortunately, not today in Kosovo, they are all taken care of. These salaries amount to 108 million dinars a month. Today, with inflation planned, it will be a billion and 700 dinars all of them. Of which for the MUP - 56 million per month, the Ministry of Justice and local self-government - 11.9, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry - one million, Ministry of Sports Education - 37.6 etc. A total of 108 million. Finally, the fourth and last thing I would like to mention is for all the material needs of Serbs in Kosovo, this government is trying. The last thing that was decided two weeks ago, and now it's being implemented, from an Italian donation, has provided a lot of money for diesel, for sowing, and it's being deployed today. This government is worried. This government is not the only dinar they've been cut off. On the contrary, we are working hard, in this line we inherited, to do the best we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2435	I am putting to vote the amendments of the people's emissaries Đura Lazic, Sreten Mitrovica and Ljubisa Maravic. For 58, against 124, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2436	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I'd like to say a few words about what I said earlier this afternoon. There are amendments where I suggested that some things be removed from the budget. In AK901-012, the type of income - income tax from copyright, patents and technical improvements, amounting to 381 million. I suggested that it be reduced to 100 million. Why? You can get a lot more from patents in a different way. In fact, when something is patented and put into production function, two to three percent in the next 10 years can be earned. Then we have a much bigger income than the patent itself, and also an incentive for other innovations. I've made more remarks to article 6, and I'd only look back at two. AK 911-190, the Agrarian budget to increase from 5 billion and 100 million to 6 billion. It should be increased in such a way that it needs to be removed from the AK 911-602, the Bank Restructure Fund, to be abolished. We know the Agrarian budget is very important. I'm not going to talk about how much he's increased or reduced. It is certain that this country has lived over the past 10 years and over and will live 60-70% of the agrarians. Investment in the Agrarian budget must be a multiple profit, rather than investing in another branch of production. When we have a strong agrarian, we can finance a different production. That's why I think the Agrarian budget should increase by 900 million dinars, taking off other analytical contexts that I listed so that the budget doesn't change. That's exactly what the Prime Minister asked, not to change the top figure of the budget, to try to switch from one of the nationalist concepts, to make it better and more celery.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2437	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the amendment of Ambassador Lazar Marjansky. I'm closing the vote. For 60, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. In Article 6(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: Walks, Analytical Conto 911-190, Traffic Programmes and Analytical Conto 911-190, Business Subventions, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the Prime Minister at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2438	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the amendment refers to economic subsidies, AK 911-190, traffic programmes. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia predicted for this year, when it comes to traffic infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, this applies only to the Yugoslav railways and road maintenance programmes. So there will be no further construction of the travel industry this year. We are stopping an absolutely important area and development in this area. We are also stopping business collectives dealing with this business, so I proposed to the government the next amendment, and I was appointed by the political municipal leaderships SO Vladimirs and Koceljev. The amendment refers to the following -- that 25 million are set aside for the Shabac road -- Donja Crniljevo, and for the Vladimirs road -- Jaznik 30 million. Of course, there are 30 million dinars for the Sabac road. I must remind myself that this road route of Sabac - Bogatic was started in the sense of construction in 1999, but of course because of the start of NATO bombing, everything that was happening, that job was suspended. It was launched in early 2000 and because of the inability or level of sanctions we had it could not be further. There are 7 km left to settle this road route, on the road that is of strategic interest to the SRJ, because the most serious and qualitative link with the Republika Srpska, which is absolutely burdened with passenger and freight traffic, where almost all goods pass through this Master's route, and this area is absolutely populated, that part of the Macva, the population. There are large masculine villages, which are good, homely and well organized but simply cannot bear the amount of traffic in their territory anymore. Especially in the spring and autumn of that space, there are a number of car accidents going on, and if it doesn't continue to build that road, we'll suffer considerable damage and we'll have a large number of victims, material damage, when it comes to this route. This also refers to the continuation of the construction of the Shabac - Donji Crniljevo road, because there is a 4 km share to Donji Crneljev, and it is tied up and important because of the factory "Zorka - nemetali", which has a newly built brick factory in the area and creates serious problems for the supply of construction material. When it comes to the Vladimirs-Jaznik road route, it is related to the part on which there is a large mine "Zorke-non-metali" and it is important to provide some assistance in that direction and complete the road route, as it also passes through a large number of settlements in the municipality of Vladimirci and Koceljev municipality. When I proposed this amendment I know no one wanted to discuss it with you, I guess that's not what you're interested in. You mean... You know, there's only Serbs living in that area, there's no others. Trust me. There are socialists, radicals, informants, Espesians, we're all mixed up there, we live together and believe only Serbs, and it has nothing to do with any political party. The desire to propose these amendments has just stemmed from the political demands of the people who manage these municipalities and with the political demands of the SPS representatives in the area, and I suppose the people of the SRS who also have their membership. I can't figure out -- is it possible that you won't even continue from these great promises, and there's no sign of being built by anyone from the SPS? It doesn't say, believe me. And we from the SPS and you from the SPS, is it possible, if we created something, built something, it belongs to everyone in this country, that you won't even look back on the subject or comment on it, or say whether it's necessary or not. Even here, it's understated that there will be no conversation at all on the subject. And I'm surprised why not the DOS MPs from the Machuvan County say a word about it and they won't say a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2439	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2440	I will confess in front of DOS, we really haven't been able to fix the roads in Serbia in the last five months that we inherited from your government period. That doesn't mean we're giving up getting the state in order, even in that traffic-road network. It is not true that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not provide through this budget for the repair of the road network and for construction. The funds are provided both through the activities of local self-government and through that part of the collection that will be carried out through the fund-raising technique given to the Road Directorate under the Ministry's financial plan for Transport and Telecommunications. You can learn more about the way we do things, that we plan to improve travel and traffic networks. Of course we know that these roads are used by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will behave exactly that way, but if you analyse your government's relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for example in the last four years, then you will see that you have invested the minimum funds in a travel network in those local self-governments where your party was not in power and that the work itself has been fully taken over by a completely naked local self-government and that it has been very effective in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2441	If no one is answering for a word anymore, let's move to a statement on the amendment of MP Dragana Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, out of a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. In Article 6(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The expenditure, Analytical Conto 911-300, Analytical Conto 911-301 and Analytical Conto 911-302, special purposes, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the Proposer mean a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2442	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the representatives of the government we have, I must point out that the motives of submitting this amendment are not some other nature, but rather something that hinders education in Serbia's entire territory. Education is in such a situation that even with the current increase it will remain below average, because an increase of 15% of personal income does not lead to a republican average. I'm asking a real question - what will education do in a further period. Today, however, I have no record of how much school does not work normally, and neither does it work for 30 minutes, which puts the teaching process at risk for a long time. By submitting this amendment, I felt that salaries in education in Serbia's territory should have been raised above the republican average, followed by an increase in the corresponding cost of life or inflation. Given that, I believe the government has the opportunity to find and not need what is proposed to be sacred to it in the further part. There are seven billion in budget reserves. Equalise the salaries of educators above the average, which means some 18-20% increase, and then follow up on receipts, or similar inflation. I think in that situation education can continue to normally bring the school year to an end. Everything else is well arranged, and on that side, I must give my confession to the Minister of Education. He did it very professionally, from the point of view of the Serbian government, but with a reaction from educational workers, no. Educational workers in Serbia's territory this increase, as planned, cannot support it, because their position is such that it is below all averages. I have to repeat my salary one more time - an unskilled worker with 1,200 dinars, a senior cooker with 2,800, a tall cooker with 3,800. Please, we want advanced education, we want reform in education, we want to follow Europe. All of this by Azum's correct attitude towards education and all of the educators. I felt, and I believe now, that the solutions are not on strike, that the solutions are in the understanding of MPs in the Republic Parliament. When we meet in the hallway, regardless of whether the opposition is and who are educated, they say -- well, it is, it should be about that way. However, party discipline is likely to stop all parties from expressing themselves in the way they feel about giving the problem. I know that even now, when we look at this part, it's going to be the same situation. I remain on the amendment - that educational workers, and there are 104 thousand (and a million students on Serbia's territory), increase the salary, increase it by being above the republican average, and I have a reason for that - because the qualification structure of the workers in education is the highest. If we do not want to drive the quality fit out of education, if we want schools to work and to carry out a young generation to the end, it is the duty of this Parliament to create conditions for educational workers not to beg, not to engage in additional occupations, but to do their job, what makes regular teaching and extracurricular activities, to prepare students for completion of secondary education, completion of primary and successful university enrolment. As for the position of scholarships and student standards, my proposal went to the point that the funds were not sufficient, given the salary that would go, and I believe that the economic situation of the parents was such that they could not provide, and should be provided to all students and students, who carry out their duties in quality, so that they would not be hindered by the material status of their parents for their schooling. In order to carry out this obligation, I believe that these funds should be increased, and I believe that this government has the same feeling of ensuring the education of primary and secondary school students. I would ask the Parliament to reconsider education, the economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2443	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2444	And the relationship to this amendment by the Government and the Education Committee, i.e. for education, shows that DOS authorities keep their pre-election promises. Enlightenment was hard on them always under communism, from 1945 to 1990, from 90 to 2000, but now it's the hardest on them. Never did teachers, teachers and teachers have salaries below the republican average. Now they do. They had small salaries last year, now they have a real amount much less, although you have nominally increased them, because the cost of life is much higher today than in September of the month. And that's why the minister should think about it a little bit, or maybe his deputy, instead of chewing gum on his mouth all day long, and some things in the budget being corrected, to show good faith to the most vulnerable categories of the population. The educators are now living the hardest, and the minister of education, perhaps in an alcoholic state, announces a scholarship fee for high school students. So now the high school kids are paying for school. Now, you've come up with that very nicely, but why didn't you promise it to the people in the election campaign, why you promised huge wages, solving all problems, and now that you're riding on the people's coat of arms, now just huge taxes and coercion on the villa. And health and education are in a much worse position than they were. I would not criticise you that it is now the same as it was in September, before, but I criticise you which is now much worse both in education and in health.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2445	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2446	I agree that the government's relationship with education is very important, towards the employees of education, and we have therefore paid special attention to these budget expenditures, as well as expenditure in health care. The difference between our relationship to education and the relationship to the enlightenment of our predecessors is best discussed by the comparative analysis of the percentage space the education had in the 2000 budget and the percentage space it had in the 2001 budget. As for primary education, the government of major reformers in the field of education last year allocated 25% of the funds that existed in the budget. This year it's going to be 30.5%, the difference is 5%. As for secondary education, the difference between us and reformers, who entered the reform by arresting high school students, ranged from 11.5% in 2000 to 14.8% in 2001, is more than 3%. In total, 36.7% of the budget was invested by the National Unity Government in education last year. Our government is investing 45.3%. The government of the Republic of Serbia intends to spend 15 billion and 650 million on meeting professorial requirements. As for primary and secondary education, salaries will be increased by 42% compared to last year. As far as higher education goes, 33%. These are the best picturesque indicators and differences between the former government and the education and indicators of our intentions, which are very serious and which are certainly different from those shown by critics. It is important to say that in each of the next appearances of the opposition, we will in this way show to what extent there is truth and according to what is done, and thus show, not to the public, who, certainly in a valid way, comment on the results of their and our relationship, but above all, show our intention that in a time in which we cannot fully meet the needs of enlightenment even in this way, we will stand up in defense of those who were powerless before the violence of the Government of National Unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2448	Ladies and gentlemen, there's no big story for the educators and for us here. It is not a fact that life costs have increased by 80% since September 2000, that many products have gone three, four, five and six times up, and that education is the only time now in that position that the average personal income is lower than the average in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2449	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting... Under the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 111 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I suggest we vote positively on this amendment. Dispute opinions were heard, and the fate of this amendment will depend on the fate of the educational staff. We've heard the stories of how they've been, we've heard the promises of how they'll be. I'd like to keep track of who voted, so when we discuss this over a few months, that we can say to each other and say to each other in our eyes, you're guilty, you voted like this or not, you voted differently. At the same time, I'm guessing there's a direct transmission of this session, let the recruits in the education hear what anyone's up for, to cut off who loves them more and who loves them less. Here, I'm offering you a chance. Not secretly, but to vote in a roll call, then, according to your advice, determine whether or not you want to make more education or stay on such a miserable proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2451	This isn't an open search. Before I put your proposal to a vote, just to let the MPs know that the electronic voting records remain, exactly as anyone has voted by name, so that history data already exists. Not for this, but for every other question, and of course, to put your proposal to the vote. The truth is, you know, there's a history record for every vote, every name issue. You can't see it on TV, but for history, it stays and every MP can have insight into that information and it can bring it out. To understand that, that's what I mean. I'm putting Mr Tomislav Nikolic to the vote. For 59, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, and a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of Tomislav Nikolic. We can declare the amendment of MP Vladimir Garcevic. For 61, against 110, two were abstentions, not 12 votes, and a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. In article 7, section 6, position 33, position 36, split 20 and split 31, the amendment was submitted by the Financial Committee. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the Government's representative has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to three items in the budget expenditure foreseen for this year. On this occasion, since I have five minutes to discuss this amendment, I will briefly leave out the discussion on Minister Gashi Knezevic and Branislav Lecic, whose ministry is referred to, and I will present my amendment in the following words: The amendment refers in the first paragraph to 500 million dinars that the government foresees for the anti-constitutional body and is managed by Nebojsa Covic, deputy prime minister. Who is Nebojsa Covic? At first glance, the answer to the asked question is known. Mr Nebojsa Covic is a businessman, owner and president of the FMP Trade Management Board...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2453	Mrs. Jovanovic, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2454	I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. Mariscan, and follow a little or you have your secretary, already everyone known as Georgi Maric, and let him show you what this is about. Please don't take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2455	But you're speaking some history of Mr. Nebojja Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2456	So, who is Nebojsa Covic? Besides what I said...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2457	They're unconcentrating me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2458	He is a former SPS member, former Belgrade mayor, current party president Democratic Alternative and Serbian Deputy Prime Minister in charge, and now pay attention to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2459	Oh, great.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2460	He is currently in charge of establishing peace in southern Serbia. Is that the only real answer to the question? I don't think so. The people need to know more about this man, because he is already in a position to decide on his fateful issues, and who knows, one day the appointed can also be imposed on us as a candidate for president of Serbia. I believe that what I am about to bring to the public will raise the veil from the serious and concerned face of Mr Neboja Covic for the current political moment in which we live. The Yugoslav Army, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has had business co-operation with the company FMP Trade since 1991, although the products of the company, cans for all kinds of canned food, have been used by the former JNA since 1998 by a canned meat and vegetables producer. After the conclusion...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2461	But, Mrs. Jovanovic, you really have no idea what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2462	Realisation of the contract between the Yugoslav Army and the FMP Trade from...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2463	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2464	In 1993 and 1994 and 1995...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2465	What kind of Covic? Why are you obsessed?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2466	Mr. Martian, I don't know why you don't calm down the urn MPs of your coalition. So until 1995...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2467	Mrs. Jovanovic, for the second time, I'm warning you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2468	... that all these contracts were harmful to the Yugoslav Army. Namely, in business with the companies mentioned... (President: Mrs Jovanovic... )......................................................................................................... A number of irregularities and illegalities have been identified to cause damage to the Yugoslav military.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2469	I'm obliged to take your word for it. Please leave the pay phone. You guys haven't even started talking about the subject in three minutes. (Natasa Jovanovic, still standing behind the pay phone. ) [[After break 17.30 hours]] I figure we can work. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2470	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or a member who says that no one has the right to harass and interrupt MPs as he exposes what's on the agenda. Very often, the secretary of the National Assembly insults the MPs behind the pay phone. The last case is SRS MP Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, whom the secretary of the National Assembly had very rudely thrown away, and what MPs sitting in the front row saw. If you want, I can quote what Georgia Maric said, although it is very rude. Secondly, I ask Mr. Georgi Maric to understand that he is a member elected by the MPs and that we are MPs elected by the citizens. When he insults the messengers of the people, he casts offensive expressions, insults, and citizens who chose these messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2471	What member is that? You wouldn't know what member you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2472	Article 43, foreign persons are obstructing the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2473	It wasn't the secretary who came forward to comment upon the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2474	A foreign person interferes with the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2475	Legal face? He's a law professor, so he doesn't know what a legal person is. We're going back to work. I have nothing to comment on. I'm warning him if he did what he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2476	I have something else to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2477	I took your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2478	There wasn't a vote on this, and we have something to say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2479	Right, it wasn't a vote. You're absolutely right. This whole thing with the face of law, it rocked me. The word can be won, please be President of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2480	Mr. President, I find it very difficult to talk about the amendment now, since you prevented Natasa Jovanovic from presenting her argument. I didn't say a legal face, but a foreign person, and since Maric reminds me more and more of an alien, you're deaf to the interests and needs of the people, you're deaf to the words of the opposition, you're deaf to history, where this deafness will lead you, we'll just see. As for amendments by MP Natasa Jovanovic, he is involved, and her explanation that she tried to give is an explanation addressed to whoever was meant for money, as a criticism, and it is an attempt to prove that such a man cannot be trusted. That man's name is still Nebojsa Covic, as far as I know it's only reliable. Well, people, this man was the City Committee of the SPS, while Covic was president of the committee, built a house in Golf, on Zivko Selakovic's estate, here he is alive and healthy, so he can come out for a pay phone, say whether it is or not. The city committee ordered Ziki Mustikli to build a house in the Golf settlement for free Nobojshi Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2481	Mr. Seselj, please be careful of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2482	I'm finishing up, Mr. President, not five minutes yet, and half a minute tops. I agree that you publish photos of the villa in the color of the highest state officials, who took these villas from the state, under suspicious circumstances, just don't make such a selection. When you announce the villa of several of them, you also announce to the villa of Nebojša Covic, and Momocel Perisic, and be convincing to the people that you are objective, that you treat everyone in the same way. Covic, whom we all together, and the Democrats, and you and the DSS and we Serbian radicals have been attacking for several years because of the criminal affairs, because of the miracles he has been making, is now suddenly escular about all his crimes, for his crimes, for all his thefts, for all his criminal acts. So as soon as someone skips to DOS, he's free of all responsibility. There are fresher examples of running to DOS, and then those who run to DOS are calm, able to sleep whatever they were doing, not threatening to arrest them. You should treat everyone the same way. That's the point. The point of this amendment, which you did not allow to give an explanation, is that Nebojsa Covic is not a man who can be trusted with 500 million dinars on self-government. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2483	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2484	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're talking about the budget, about 500 million dinars. I want to ask you that our real task is to be the law, that as soon as possible here, we MPs are discussing what is happening in southern Serbia and in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. The international factor to the south of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija may be different today, when it comes to the new US administration. It also showed that when it comes to the Republic of Macedonia, because it has acted as it should be carried out and allowed the Republic itself to solve its problem with terrorists, unlike the old US administration that used it to come to part of Kosovo and Metohija. Please, when it comes to southern Serbia, it is estimated that indeed 500 million dinars are not explained, it is not explained why it should be done, and only 82 million dinars are also allocated to the functioning of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2485	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not about the need to defend any member of the Republic's government, any representative of the DOS. This is about the need for some things, for who knows which time during this session, to be clarified. I really don't know how many times I've had to deny Mr. Ivkovic's performances, which despite all the facts that have been told about this speaker, kept talking about 80 million dinars, although the finance minister, the most trusted person in the republican administration for writing finance, proved, explained that two billion and two hundred million dinars were allocated for the cost of budget users in Kosovo and Metohija. Do we have to put a board here to write the difference between 80 million and two billion and 200 million? Five hundred million for southern Serbia is few, and we want many more of these funds, because the problems in that part of our territory are very serious and it is a tragic consequence of your authority. Let's just analyze the results. While you were able to decide the fates of the people who lived in this country, those fates were tragic and lost. Since 5 October, you are not the people who dictate the rules of conduct in this society and since 5 October, the situation in the country and the country's status in the world has been rapidly improving. Of the 400km of the Land Area of Security, in which the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro has been disputed, and of course the sovereignty of the SRJ, we have reached 50 km. Exactly 390 square kilometres of return to state territory are concrete results of the work of the Republic and the Federal Government's Co-ordination Body, led by Nebojsa Covic. With the criticism of Nebojka Covic, you are certainly trying to cloud the fact that the effect of work and the effect of the relationship between the republican administration, finally the DOS towards Serbia, is quite certainly very different from the effect shown when the result of your rule is analysed. Gentlemen, we lost half of our country while you were deciding, we lost tens of thousands of lives and now you're setting the price for Serbia here. For us, southern Serbia has no material value. Everything we have will be invested to preserve that part of our territory and that 500 million is the minimum that we could single out at this point. If God gives the results of all the reforms we insist on, next year we will not be a state that can only give the police in southern Serbia one pair of boots, so when the stream is trampled out. These are the results of the policy that you have left for us. Summer uniforms in the snow-stained police in St. Elijah's. When you talk about Serbia, talk about the results you left behind after ten years of your authority or about the results after two and a half years of the rule of the Government of National Unity. Some 180 quack dads, and some scavenger in some sports hall and a mattress of a fool who needs to lie on and think about everything, about his destiny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2486	The people of Serbia and Yugoslavia had the opportunity to learn about the policy of double standards and double approaches to the international community, and how to feel on their backs. Double standards and replacement policies are always welcome for the discussions that bring up the air and bring applause, but, my dear gentlemen, the south of Serbia came after October 5th, the southern Serbia is a trap of the old American administration that you have flown into. If you hadn't taken that trap from the old U.S. administration and flew in, it would have been so much better in this country. Since 5 October, the country has lost 800 sq km of territory, received a shameful position to sign a ceasefire with terrorists and probably entered the history of European countries that the only sovereign state to sign a ceasefire with its secessionists and terrorists, at the same time as the new US administration with a new policy, which is completely out of the politics of the old US administration, allowed Macedonia to solve internal problems with Albanian terrorists on its own. Therefore, the same ones that produced the sale of Kosovo and Metohija, forced the people to suffer, the same ones who pushed your cowardly egg into which you flew in after October 5th, and we can think about the results of your rule, and we can think about that. When we put ramps towards Montenegro to convince the people and Milo Djukanovic that he must respect the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, you spoke against us. Now those same ramps you're putting on and these ramps are getting bigger and bigger since you came to power and the secession of Montenegro is almost certain. What's going on with Vojvodina? We're talking about talking here. Let's start defending the budget with the present and the future. Don't defend him by trying to defend him by explaining what happened before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2487	We need to make a statement on Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic's amendment. Please vote. For 61, against 127, no one is with a woman, no vote is 10, a total of 198 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the Government's representative at the Committee's session, as it was contained in Amendment III of the Financial Committee, which became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word, given this circumstance? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2488	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just point out that it's been formulated here that the amendment has been rejected. He wasn't rejected. He was accepted by representatives of the government and the Finance Committee and I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2489	If no one's answering for a word, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 139 against 37, four abstentions, 16 did not vote, a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuko Antonijevic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. As far as I know, the applicant is not here. Is there anyone else to say? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments of MP Vuk Antonijevic to vote. For 95, against 84, with 5 abstentions, 12 did not vote, 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Preg Mijailovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance by the Government on the Committee's trail. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2490	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, the state of health is so disastrous that when I submitted this amendment, I realized where health care is. Health care is in such a situation that there are no salaries, no medications, no medical devices, no means to work, no conditions for diagnostics, and as soon as all this is gone, there's no treatment. When I think about who led to this, I remembered today, and then I was reminded by a colleague when he said behind this pay phone -- Suvadrenovina, that it was precisely 10 years ago by one Prime Minister, Mr. Radmilovic, who said -- listen to me, brothers from the Socialist Party, so I can't give it anymore because it's gone, the Suvadrenovina is, it can't be squeezed. That's when the doctor's salary was 800 to 1,000 marks, and now we're out of pay. The drugstores are empty. But now that I look further, what are the losses in health care, they're from 1-2 billion marks, and whoever made those losses, they've made those who said the Suvadrenovina could be drained. They've been squeamishing and what they've done. They told the people that they were giving for health care and they simply spent through health funds and made fairies and everything they did, and that's why two or three days ago some people found themselves in the face of justice. Thinking about it, I talked to Minister Djelic, what he can do at this point for health care, he said -- here, I can do this much. And he gave that item, or he improved by 1.5 times. He said, if there's only one dollar left, I'll give it to the health care. I believed him. I believe that and that is why I am giving up my amendment, but, gentlemen, MPs, I am giving up because I believe that this government will show where its money goes, and that it will bring out all those people who are responsible for this situation in front of justice, foreordaining authorities, all those who robbed the health fund, and, gentlemen, if the government doesn't, will then have no trust in the people, and we MPs will not trust it. I hope that the state authorities have to do it today and I hope, I will be grateful, if Minister Djelic has told me what he will do for health care, respect, I think he will, because he himself knows that a sick man only has one wish, and that is to be healthy so I think that the future will be better for health care, that better days for health care will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2491	Is anyone else answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2492	(The votes - the amendment has been withdrawn. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although it is the proposing of this amendment from DOS, we Serbian radicals will support this amendment... (louds - no amendments, he pulled it) He didn't pull it, did he?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2493	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2494	You DOSs are just pulling the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2495	The amendment has been withdrawn. But now you're discussing the air, because there's no change.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2496	I think it would be a good idea if you asked Mr. Mijailovic to reconsider a little bit, and maybe give up his retreat, because his amendment was good, and if we hadn't seen his amendment, we Serbian radicals would have submitted similar. We're counting -- it's going to be easier to get through a record amendment than ours, which is why we haven't even submitted the amendment. Now we're disappointed because we were prepared to accept that amendment unanimity. Because for health care, we're always ready to do our best to fix the situation, unlike you, who promised a lot, and we never made a lot of promises. But we were trying to help. And you promised miracles, and now you've forgotten everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2497	You can give the kidney, for example.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2498	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2499	The amendment has been withdrawn. Just to find out that the amendment has been withdrawn and there's no statement about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly to tell me by which member of the Rules of Procedure he found that the amendment was withdrawn. The amendment has entered the assembly procedure. His owner is no longer Mr. Predrag Mijailovic. Find me a provision in the Rules of Procedure under which he now decides whether or not the amendment can be removed from the debate. The amendment has defined many MPs as to how they will treat this debate. Mr. Mijailovic could begin the debate in particular to withdraw the amendment, but now the debate is under way and there are no new amendments anymore, nor can amendments that are in the process be withdrawn. It's a procedure foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Please - tell me by which member of the businessman you removed this amendment from the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2501	You are required to say which member of the Rules of Procedure I have broken. But there's no member, so I'm not going to quote you, there's a member who determines what time the motion is withdrawn from the procedure, and that's until the debate is over. There's nothing to ask. Citate a member who I... Well, for 10 years, you've been in congregation benches, you're getting paid, and you haven't learned the Rules of Procedure. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 in positions 20, 29 and 98. Article 7 is very large and too wide, so I couldn't even explain all these positions that are in it, and that's why I chose the most important position, that's the 29th position, which refers to the co-ordination body of the federal government and the Republic of Serbia and to the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. To show the facts that the person who has to dispose of the funds from this position, I have to give an explanation, and in no case do I want to repeat what my colleague Jovanovic said. That is why I will present some new facts concerning the president of the co-ordination body of the Federal Government and the Republic of Serbia. So, Nebojsa Covic, who is very dear to all of you here, I see by your laughing, also the company of the FMP trade has charged the army and the higher price of the other re-comparation necessary for the production of cans -- cans, for example, bows....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2503	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2504	It has been estimated that, on the basis of the unlawfully achieved differences in the repromation required for the production of cans - cans, by the realisation of those contracts, by FMP trade companies, Yugoslavia's military has done damages worth three million dollars. However, the amount of damage done to the Yugoslav Army has been dramatically increased by the fact that the company of the FMP trade, in the realization of those contracts, accounted for the spending of a larger amount of white lime compared to normative, and thus.... is included in the price of the finished product.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2505	Please either stop reading that text or say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2506	Then, it charged more in the price of services and spent work on cans - cans, compared to other cannery manufacturers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2507	Mr. Keseiæ, don't make a circus out of the Parliament. Is anyone else answering for a word regarding the amendment of MP Stevan Kesejić? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2508	Mr. President, you did not allow the MP to explain his amendment again. It's the easiest thing, whenever Serbian radicals speak, you turn off the power. We shall go up to the roof of the National Assembly, and from there we shall speak. I see, the DOS are laughing here, which is Covic's firm's name is the FMP trade. That's the way it is. That's what Covic called his firm. Laugh at Covic, not us talking about his company. You obviously don't want to hear the truth. This truth will be heard. It will be published in hundreds of thousands of copies before Djelic's press taxation law comes into force. As far as this amendment is concerned, I'm disabled because I haven't heard the explanation. Since, and when I don't hear anything, I see everything, I'm as psychic as Leila, I know what this is about. Nebojsa Covic cannot enjoy the confidence of this parliament and use 500 million dinars, which were given to him by eye, and no one knows why, for which reason, no one needs that money. No one knows that alive, and neither does the minister. Actually, the minister doesn't know anything. I propose that this amendment be accepted, that 500 million dinars be denied Nebojsa Covic and that these money be distributed to health and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2509	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? I am putting the amendment of MP Stevan Kesjejic to the vote. For 46, against 118, abstentioned 11, 18, a total of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2510	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have proposed to the Government this amendment with the aim of making the resources foreseen by the budget more justly distributed. So, to reduce certain expenditures, and to increase other expenditures. First of all, it's about division 1, 2, 3 and 6. These are expenditures for the President of the Republic, amounting to 28 million and 300,000, to 18 million and 300,000, where 10 million would be saved. I already explained why in the debate in principle. Since our President of the Republic does not perform his duty as prescribed by the Constitution. This is not a blow to those workers who serve it, but it is to those who have too many salaries, compared to workers of similar actions in the Assembly and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The second split was the National Assembly of Serbia, to cut from 180m to 100m, where 80m would be saved. This is also not directed against officials, waiters, cooks, chefs and others who work in the Assembly, whose salaries are on average about three thousand dinars, but above all on the salaries of regular Members of Parliament, except for those MPs who do their job properly and who are present at the sessions and who actively participate in the work of these sessions, through amendments and discussions. Therefore, it applies only to those who are not doing their job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The third part was divided by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which also does not apply to workers, officials and administration, whose salaries are also very low and move on average around 3,000 dinars. There remains a difference of about 20 million. But the biggest difference is the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and in particular the current budget reserves, which are seven billion and 957 million, which is close to eight billion, which I think, at this point, are very high, and they would be quite enough to make three billion dinars at this point. The distribution would mainly be carried out in the following divisions - given the unfavourable situation in agriculture, spring crops, problems in livestock, etc., and the enormous importance of the development of agriculture, which is the only healthy and healthy branch of this economy, I believe that the Agrarian budget needs to be significantly increased, and above all for spring sowing and livestock development. Bad conditions of youth study, low amounts of student loans and poor conditions of housing and feeding of most students defined me as investing in the distribution for the Ministry of Education, concerning student loans and their scholarships, in order to improve the conditions of housing and feeding of students and their scholarships. Also, in the department of education and sports, since the Ministry of Sports has been abolished, I suggested 500 million be given for sports programmes, as it would finance the development of a top amateur sport. I don't mean professional sports here, only amateur and top-notch sports. Not to mention how important the role of sport in the development of youth education is, since I consider it to be the greatest guarantee that young people do not go the wrong way, that they do not go the pathway, alcohol, malnutrition and crime. In the children's education department, I think another 500 million dinars must be allocated there, as the white company will destroy the Serbian nation. According to the data of all relevant factors and scientists involved in this matter, and in particular Prof. Mark Mladenovic and Prof. Milosha Macure, in 25 years we Serbs will be a national minority in their country. If we don't increase care, social care about children, mothers on maternity leave, unless children's allowances are increased, unless there's an increase in maternity benefits, in which case we'll be very soon to be a national minority in our own country. And next, in the refugee section, I think 881 million is very little for 800,000 refugees and exiled persons from Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's very small, because it turns out that every one of them has a evasive face with only 1,100 dinars per year for food and accommodation. That's why I predicted adding another 500 million to it, so that at least a little more decent lives would be given to persons, under whom we have great responsibility and who have not experienced with their own free will the fate that has hit them, and who live in Serbia as second, third and fourth-row citizens. That is why I propose to the Assembly that this amendment be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2511	Does one of the authorized participants want the word in the debate? He doesn't want to. ) I therefore put this amendment to the vote. For vote 57, against 112, the three abstentions, did not vote 19, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the amendment promoter want a word? There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2512	In Article 7 of position number 68, analytical conto 911-190, amount: 3,000,000,000 dinars, the RASHODA type is changed and it reads: "Renovation programs (Colubar County buildings, Surdulica municipalities, Alexinac, Vladikin Han, Kursumli and Vranje municipalities)". The motion for funds to the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction did not predict through the amount of three billion dinars of infrastructure recovery funds and in the municipalities of Surdulic, Aleksinac, Vladic's Han, Kursumli and Vranje, which, by all estimates and indicators, are materially and as far as human life is concerned, were the most injured in this country in the past NATO aggression. The damage in these five municipalities, estimated at around 700 million dinars on 31.3.1999. These five municipalities have a total budget of 101 million 499 thousand and 391 dinar, and they have suffered material damage of 700 million, so I think there is room for a certain amount of funds to be recovered from these municipalities. If you didn't have the same archaic according to all the municipalities, let the data serve you -- on Saturday, the Prime Minister held a meeting in the Chamber of Commerce with businessmen from Pcinjska and Jablanička County. It's a Chamber of Commerce covering those two districts. At the meeting, the government's president called only the heads of the municipalities where DOS authorities are in power. No municipalities of the Pcinj County, no business organization, are invited to the meeting. That's how the Prime Minister informs and treats municipalities where DOS is not in power. You said you'd do things differently. And so it doesn't turn out that Grandpa's grandson is showing the border, I'm going to tell Mr. Cedi how Mr. Covic spends money in the Pcinj County, and so far he's spent about 250 million. The money he spends with Rizzo Halimi, taking out the Ship's villages, and in the evening, for the dock, with that grandmother he runs, with the music, that's how he spends his money. I'll read you what the structure of the destruction of the objects in one of the municipalities looks like, and you make a decision. You say all the time, and in the headlines of all the newspapers -- they're radicals against the south of Serbia. As far as I can tell, you'll be back here on the red button, so let the citizens of southern Serbia see how you care for southern Serbia. Minimum funds are required here so that this area can be rescheduled. I'll give you an example of Surdulka municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2513	I'll remind you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2514	Individual facilities, destroyed 793, collective - 17, economic facilities - 6, school facilities - three, commercial - 12, municipal - 9, industrial buildings - 6 and public buildings - 9. The total damage is 91 million. I'll give you something else. The damage so far is 10% in these five municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2515	Mr. Janjic, for the second time, I'm giving you a warning about time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2516	And what are you going to do for the third time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2517	The third time he's gone, the third time he's taken words, are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2518	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2519	Thank you, too. Are there any more reported word after this amendment? Mr. Seselj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2520	I am deeply saddened that you have received this amendment so unseriously. You should show a little more seriousness. The Serbian Radical Party has always advocated and succeeded, even before it was in the government, and when it entered the government, to allow the Kolubar County, which suffered severe injuries on several occasions and suffered an economic disaster, a terrible bombing of the NATO Pact, to be made possible by serious means of money, recovery and recovery. There was a problem with the use of these funds, we're aware of that. We have pointed out a lot, but in the bombings that have suffered most of the municipalities of Surdulics, Aleksinac, Vladik's Han, Kursumli and Vranje, it is also equal to cataclysmic accidents, and it would be good for the minister to think seriously about this amendment, to accept it, and in the budget he can find an item that will reduce or some item that will adapt to a different proportion of divisions, so that these municipalities that are proposed would be included in the same programme and that the Republic of Serbia would participate in the resolution of the difficult destruction that the population of these municipalities has suffered. I thank the Minister for not listening at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2521	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2522	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a problem with the Serbian language again, not only in the pronunciation, but also in the knowledge of our letter. I would like to ask those who criticise the draft budget, as a proposal that doesn't matter, let's say the Colubary County, that in a document I believe you've won, on the eighth page, they read these three billion dinars and define a reconstruction program -- a destroyed building in the Kolubar County. As for the Solidarity Fund that you showed last year as the fund through which you intend to build the Colubar County, the best citizens of the Colubar County know how much and what is built, repaired, by earthquakes. The only thing worse could have happened to them than the earthquake was your authority, because on that earthquake you earned through secret accounts and the accidental spending of the funds you took from the citizens of Serbia, from what little they had. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Who? Let's say you, as vice president of the Republic Government. Let's say you did. Since your replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure are an opportunity to talk nonsense, I will not hesitate to accuse you, Mr. Seselj, as vice president of the Republic Government, of participating in the systematic, organized theft of people's couples, let's say through the Solidarity Fund, that through secret accounts, special funds, through seven different taxes, through God knows how many tax bases, you illegally funded the regime of which you were an integral part. Because someone lost a house in the Colubary County, so the Solidarity Fund was created, and the Rehabilitation Directorates were created after the war, but only the walls and buildings were built and the ministerial property was expanded. So much for the Solidarity Fund and the way you've financed those to whom those funds were allocated. Like the Rehabilitation Loan, as well as the sale of Telecom, as well as the old foreign exchange savings, as well as taxes, because you are left with only empty funds and debts of the state towards the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2524	It would be good if Cedomir Jovanovic first listened to little of the people he wants to talk to, so he knows what it is. I supported the withdrawal of money for the Kolubara County, but I also supported the amendment requiring the proper money to be provided for some other municipalities in southern Serbia, which suffered severe destruction, which are Surdulica, Vladic's Han, Vranje, Kursumli, Alexinac, etc. That's the first thing. Another thing, since Cedomir Jovanovic of this pay phone is lying, I openly say that any Serbian radical has done what he accuses us of, so as not to remain a liar to the public, let him perform with evidence. Otherwise, you'll be most of the liars in front of the public. As far as the Colubary County is concerned, the government's mission was to secure the money. The government provided money, there were problems in the field about using these couples, yes, but find out if a Serbian radical was involved in embezzlement. As for Serbian radicals, we insisted that these things be cleared up. You find out exactly who abused the state's money, so you get him on a wallpaper, not a flat-rate charge. Serbian radicals can face honour, at any time, in front of the people, at the expense of their participation in the Serbian government and in the federal government. We did not betray the people's trust. The results are not what we wanted and what people expected. Such results will be when we rule alone. You can't charge us with any embezzlement, not one. Every embezzlement, every theft has a name, last name and address. We're not going to stand up for anyone who stole and embezzled, and whoever you arrest, but we're asking you to arrest all thieves in order, not pick them by ideological and political affiliation. Until you arrest Nebojsa Covic, you have no right to arrest anyone. You have no moral right. Of course, we'll never agree to arrest a man for what Javier Solana did or to arrest a police general for betraying a state secret. You DOS are arresting a police general for telling a state secret. You can clearly tell what political processes are and what crime is, and when you're chasing crime, you're chasing criminals out of your ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2525	If we're done with this political debate, we could go back to the job we're supposed to be doing. Anybody else answer for a word? Why isn't he right, this was a replica? (Louds from the O.R.: There's no right. Yes, yes, he has no right to a replica. Please don't take my obligation to determine what this is about. Mr. Jovanovic spoke as the president of the Parliament Group, Mr. Seselj took advantage of the right to the replica, and that's how we ended this round. We're explaining he doesn't have the right to a replica. There's no right, there's no replica in the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what's there for applause. [[Applause radically.]] Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment of MP Slobodan Janjic. The vote was 61, against 107, no one abstention, voted 20, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to article 7 was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and Article 7 has 37 divisions. So it's pretty hard to explain this for a short time, so I've given the amendment to three sections in article 7, so I'm going to try to explain them in a partial way. The first refers, given that the Minister of Agriculture is here, to the Agricultural Budget, and above all I would like to discuss the Agricultural Budget. One of the most important branches of our economy is agriculture. In the conditions of sanctions, farmers bear the greatest burden and thanks to them, Serbia was not even hungry. Our biggest export chance is just producing quality food. Therefore, investments in agriculture must be adequate for our expectations. Farmers must, or farmers, be able to obtain, under the most favourable conditions, agricultural machinery, seed and fruit material, food and plant and livestock protection. So we shouldn't be saving, because any savings in this respect would have inconceivable consequences. I'm just going to remind you that the estimate of the participation of the Agrarian budget in the total budget for 2001 is 4.74%, while in 2000 the amount was much higher - 5.77%. If we take into account that last year was one of the largest droughts in the last period, then you will realize for yourself how much more important it is to invest in the Agrarian budget and act preventively, not to expect the first drought, because only those funds that would be allocated to the prevention of drought would be returned to us by that year. I believe that the proposed budget funds are insufficient, which is why they need to be significantly increased. Therefore, all redistributions should be made from the planned budgets. To deny money to various unnecessary agencies, and to transfer funds and make them available to Covic, the funds set aside for experiments by Gashi Knezevic, and thus increase the Agrarian budget. Accordingly, I suggest that five billion and 100 million dinars be increased to 10 billion dinars. In Section 16 - Position 89, it is a higher position, a second division, the participation of the Republic in the PIO. I believe that these proposed funds for the disability and social sphere are insufficient to pay for the real needs of pensioners and people with disabilities, because above all we know that pensioners are people in the old age of life, and the disabled are with reduced working capacity or without it. These people, along with other needs for food, clothing, as well as for municipal services, require adequate treatment. As the proposed laws envision the collection of medicines, as well as the single taxes on medicines, and the health minister said certain taxes on health services and prescriptions are also here, as well as on aids for people with disabilities, with the intended amount will not be met by their needs. That's why I'm proposing to increase the amount of funds from 200 million to 270 million dinars. In the third section - Position 125, it's about health workers' salaries. Health care and health care workers' salaries are a multi-annual problem. Healthcare workers, although they belong to an elite profession around the world, are inadequately rewarded for their humanitarian work. They work in difficult conditions and with all their willingness to help healthcare users, and they have neither holidays nor holidays as associates, without talking about the severity of surgery that cannot be measured by the weight of any service. Accordingly, the proposed funds for healthcare workers’ salaries are insufficient. First of all, the state needs to worry about the health of the nation, because we need to give the primate to the health of the nation and our youth, and with the adequate salary of a healthcare worker we will act preventively in reducing corruption in health care. You yourself know that Serbia may be the first in Europe by percentage, or by the representation of corruption. Only in this way can we prevent and give healthcare professionals an adequate financial reward and thus improve health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2527	Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. The vote was 50, against 117, no one abstention, 20 did not vote, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2528	Amendment to Article 7. Split 3 - Position 12, with which funding has been defined within the government, the bureau and the agencies. The minister or the authorities did not provide an explanation of the role played by these bureaus and agencies. This is the first time organizations like this have appeared, like bureaus and agencies. A man just has to ask himself, for safety reasons, that it's not because they're generals in the government, and they're not political bureaus anymore, they're these bureaus. For these agencies, what's the role of these agencies? What are those agencies supposed to do? The question arises for the simple reason that 10 million dinars are set for the work of these bodies within the government. It's not small funds, it's 33,000 marks. If the role of these agencies is to act on marketing, by praising the government's successes, or someone's personal promotions, then you should write an explanation. It doesn't matter who he was or what he was doing in the government, but to know the role. In this way, the explanation is given for the funds that are determined within this section for both salaries and material expenses, and even for the costs of accommodation, or for the stay of those who do not live and do not live in Belgrade, and are members of the government. For agencies and bureaus no explanation has been given, so I suggest that this sum of 10 million dinars be transferred where necessary, and let's say to the position or division, where it is materially, or financially aided refugees. Your claims that every day there are more and more refugees and exiles, apparently based on this draft budget, are not correct. If you're saying something then you have to back it up with this budget, but it would be good if we didn't get into the big controversy, it would be good if you gave these 10 million to refugees, for material help from refugees and exiled persons, not to fund agencies. God save me if they're escort agencies. You're all set. It's just, at that agency, as they go, there might be sexual minorities. Secondly, the position 31 in Article 7, it is the social fund for one-time assistance. In his exposé, the prime minister provided relevant information that there are currently 800,000 unemployed, 500 000 people, or workers working in non-proliferation companies. It is clear what kind of disturbances, when it comes to working relationships, will trigger a privatisation model, and a model called a strategic partner. So these 500 grand that are currently without pay, because they work in such companies, should be counted on an increase in the number of unemployed. The best indicator is, since you came to power, more and more of those who don't get paid and on the edge are, but close to being out of work, that you're running them under a technical surplus. Where's the money to get in the way of this? There's money in the budget reserve. It's better to be prepared now, not to get carried away with the idea that the finance minister advocates, so if we miss, gentlemen, there's going to be budget rebalance. Mr. Minister, every budget rebalancing is the government's recognition that it is not capable, that it is not realistic and realistic to predict what economic movements will be this year. So any rebalancing of this budget is, above all, a personal failure for you as finance minister, and thus, the government. In position 77, in section 14, you've provided for donation funds. Donations are an income category. If someone is paying you those funds, then it's income by economic laws, but also by a healthy, ordinary human logic, and you put it in a part-time section and put it at the disposal of the ministry. We assume that you have praised the will and intent of the abroad to give us these foreign exchanges, that most of it will be foreign funds. The foreign exchange law doesn't know if the interior ministry can handle these foreign exchanges. Therefore, these funds cannot go to this position, especially cannot be made available to the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, but while we are at the ministry, your mouth was full of Serbian diaspora. You boasted that you were the government that would finally establish a connection with the Serbian diaspora, that you were the government to which diaspora frauds, such as Michael Djordjevic and this Panic would bring huge money. See how hard it is for them to get one dollar and one brand. Therefore, invest a little more money to help the Serbian diaspora, help our children not to forget the language, not to forget the tradition, the Serbian culture. It must be invested in the diaspora, there is nothing of these stories, tell them in time, the diaspora is not just a family of Karadjordjevic, two million Serbs live outside Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2529	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to something very strange that appeared in the draft budget law, to a strange analytical concept and number of positions. Number of positions 77, analytical conto 911-903, donation funds and nothing. Whose donations? This is the spending side of the budget. These are donations you'll be giving abroad. Who? Say it once. Instead of money coming from abroad, money from here will go abroad. It would be good to clarify that here, if the Deputy Minister can, if he understands that question, explain here to the unskilled MPs, so they can't understand, they can't understand all your marifetteluks. You also predicted for special purposes 20 million dinars. What are these special purposes in the Ministry of Economic Relations? You haven't made any donations through the budget. You actually believe that even with some potential donation that comes in, you should have the same way as when money came to you when you were opposition and while you were fighting for power. Whoever grabs them first, either divides them with a few of his associates or saves everything for himself. This led to the largest number of cracks in the pro-Western opposition political parties. You've been tearing and dividing so much, because everyone wanted to be the one who's going to be on the counter of Americans or the European Union to take personal money. Now you think you can do that for any donations that would come to the state. Of course, there will be few of those donations, almost not at all, but if you think they're the first ones to take home. Your authority is used to it. Anything that comes into your hands untraceably disappears. You have shown this on several examples, and in your entire government it was the most shown by Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2531	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting Ambassador Milorad Mircic's amendment to the vote. For 57, against 116, there were no abstentions, not 9 votes, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2532	This amendment refers to some 6 divisions within Article 7 and in one section I asked that budgets be abolished for the Constitutional Court, because we do not have a Constitutional Court. In the second, funds for the work of justice ministers and local self-government and officials are also cut short, as these days Minister Batic travels to The Hague and travels to The Hague. There he arranged for some surrender of Serb heads. I don't believe he's doing it out of love, it's more like it's money, so let's make money and finance the ministry's work, but what's most important is 500 million budgets to be available to the co-ordination body for the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities. I can't believe you'll believe that Nebojsa Covic is doing this, and that he's being assisted by specially trained police officers Zoran Zivkovic and his adviser, Vesic, or that invaluable Kragovic. More important than all that, Nebojsa Covic is the owner and chairman of the Board of Directors of the FMPTrade and that the company applied inadequate technological procedures, which resulted in the inability to close cans properly and hermetically, so there was a malfunctioning of content in them and so the military of Yugoslavia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2533	Mr. Stamenkovic, we've heard about these cans many times today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2534	So the Yugoslav Army has done invaluable damage. Afterwards, there was no respect for the requirements of the meat products producer, which resulted in the actual amount of meat processed into canned canned cans of larger volume, showing again the high irresponsibility of the head of the Neboja Covic Co-ordination Body. Such a man, who could have cheated on the Yugoslav Army, a man who could have slapped the drivers of the Public City Enterprise in Belgrade in time, is completely unsuitable and suspicious in these affairs he's doing. (President: I urge you to return to the agenda. ) The Serbian Radical Party cannot allow such large and significant funds to be entrusted to such a person. All I'm saying now is confirmed in the report of the Institute of Hygiene and Meat Technology No. 0828, 0829 and 0839, in which cans were found to have been used for six months under national defence standards, and the guarantee must be three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2535	Mr. Stamenkovic, I have warned you twice. I'm taking your word. Please leave the pay phone. Anyone else answer for a word on this agenda point? Nobody. ) I am voting on the amendment of Dragoljub Stamenkovic. For 52, against 116, there were no abstentions, no vote 15, a total of 183 national MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2536	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, some of you, more serious people, will wonder why we Serbian radicals are so insistent on this item of the budget, where huge money is trusted in the hands of Neboja Covic. Because your budget has many weak points. This is the weakest. Of course, our task is, as opposition, to find you the weakest point and to kick your ass at that point. That's why you're preventing us from talking about it, shutting down our power. My amendment was sent to the National Assembly on 19 densely typed pages of reasoning. You've read it, I hope. If you're not, you'll just read it, I believe, and I'm sure of it. I'm not gonna read all that today, of course. I would remind you, in addition to those 19 densely complex pages of reasoning, that you have received 26 pages of various documents that testify to the criminal actions of Nebojka Covic. Half of the arguments refer to Neboja Covic's criminal activities while he was Belgrade's mayor. Why didn't you arrest them? You're arresting them. You're enjoying your arrest. I'm just distracting you. To you, such lovely ladies, it's not like you're in a word. I can discuss it with you two later. Half of the arguments refer to Neboja Covic's criminal activities while he was Belgrade's mayor. This was published by the Radicals in "The Great Serbia" early in 96, when we had a technical coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia and with the Democratic Party, when we defended Studio B from Neboja Covic. (President: Mr. Seselj, please turn to the agenda. You've forgotten that. My amendment is on the agenda. I'm talking about my amendment. In five minutes, I can't read page 19, but in five minutes, I can point to the content of that amendment. Don't bother me. (President: Where is Studio B in the content of the amendment? ) Please, this is my amendment and explanation that I officially delivered to the National Assembly. You have it in front of you. (President: I don't. You didn't get it. It's the secretary's fault. He knows he's cursing behind the backs of the MPs. He delivered it, but I couldn't stand it. This is just what I handed over to the National Assembly, protocold to be accepted. This is multiplied in a small format, and since I don't like a small format, I came out with a big format. Don't disturb me and don't include this time of distraction. (President: I won't. ) We dispute that Nebojsa Covic is similar to a political figure to be entrusted with this kind of state money. I remind you of his canned affair, where he robbed millions of dollars, his affair with the import of cresol, which relieved and made lisol. Lysol is banned all over the apartment of smoke keeping hygiene, and he's this lysol, to make a personal profit.... (President: I warn you once in a while. Why? (President: Because you do not stick to the agenda. How is my amendment on the agenda? (President: About Lysole? () What, then, did you multiply my amendment to Lysol, if it is not on the agenda? (President: The obligation is to multiply everything you deliver. I explain why I delivered it to you and why you were obliged to multiply. (President: Good, but I've warned you again.) ) Then, there is an oil affair, a racketeering affair with the Jugoscank Bank, when it was publicly called that it had been kidnapped by Jazimir Vasiljevic. It was already when Jezdimir Vasiljevic fled abroad, so Nebojsa Covic publicly admitted that he had taken the money, even claimed that the money had returned after a public call. There's an affair with a plug factory that stole the Serbian Krajina. Then, giving the crying to Santa, because it started with him, so Parking service, where he ruined Belgrade. (President: Mr. Seselj, 5.27 minutes, you had two warnings due to non-compliance with the agenda. I'm taking your word and asking you to leave the pay phone. One more sentence to tell you, so I'm leaving, not to make incidents here, because I'm an old man, I don't like incidents, and I don't like incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember the lives of Panic. He was Chief of Staff. For much less affairs in business with the military, through the firm Centaur, he fell. Pasce and Nebojsa Covic, as vice-president of the Serbian government, I guarantee that, and we are soon to submit an initiative to vote for mistrust, which will be so convincing that no one, honorable and serious among you, will dare vote against this initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2537	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 122 abstentions, seven out of 182 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, section 6 and division 14 of the amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2538	First of all, Mr. President, let me say that I haven't forgotten how you gave me a moment when I was at the pay phone and how you misquoted one member of the Rules of Procedure, but I expect an apology from you, even in the hallway. You said I've been getting no pay for 10 years. That's not true. That Rules of Procedure I know well, and I never get out unless I'm right. I expect you, Mr. President, not to go as Dragoljub Micunovic did at the Council of Citizens, at the moment when many big and serious things were happening, then the truth immediately with tragic consequences, when he did not interrupt the session of the Council, but said they were daily events. Here, I now inform you that the Vojvodina Assembly today adopted some sort of platform for defining relations with Serbia, which is a request for secession. and that these boucadians, only many of them belong to your political parties, separated from the Belgrade centre, spoke in an ugly manner about Vojislav Kostunica. [[group applause]] Which he deserved, because if he hadn't been a candidate for the president of Yugoslavia, they would never have been MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly. With his authority, he pulled out such bastards, who are now saying things in the Vojvodina Assembly, even one speaker said -- if we don't get past this, we're going to go to war with Serbia. And you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2539	Shall we go to the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2540	.... You are trying to distract us from telling you what is very important in the state of Serbia, which is that we Serbian radicals, when we had the Socialists behind us, when they turned on us with their strength, as an exhibit of the SPS, had Nebojsa Covic behind us. I guarantee you -- it is not an accident with you in DOS -- and when you are in conflict with individual DOS parties behind your neck, Nebojsa Covic will be. I will quote, but I will also paraphrasise part of the exposé now of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, when he convinced us to vote for the government, he said it was the government of major reforms and energetic actions. He said, if there are already some of my words here, you will surely recognize them, that a few ministers have a successful career in the world's largest companies, that a few have a brilliant communist and socialist past and enormous property, that a few of them have nothing, but that they quickly arrive from October 5th, after an accelerated procedure, and there they are to be included in the list of Serbia and the Serbian people. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, very fast. I've submitted two amendments to this one. You probably saw for yourself how pointless it is to put all the amendments to one article in one amendment, so it happens that on page 3 you have an amendment and on page 9, there are completely different things, and all of these are called one amendment. So I wanted to point out to you that the speakers before me did not bother that Nebojsa Covic, a proven thief, was Nebojsa Covic, a military lifer who made money on the card... who delivered to the Yugoslav Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2541	Mr. Nikolic, take care of the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2542	Unfortunately, I haven't heard any previous speakers say that. It was supposed to be said here, that there was a communist dictator until just a few years ago, and that suddenly you gave that man 500 million dinars. It's not meant for the security of southern Serbia. The security of Serbia's south and the entire Homeland Security Zone is covered by a billion and 500 million dinars within Serbia's MUP. I accept that. That's what I'd vote for. What's in Serbia's MUP division I know will be used for what it says, but what it says -- the co-ordination body, 500 million dinars, I don't believe anything and I know there's nothing there. After all, today Nebojsa Covic is probably talking to terrorists, so who knows what news we're gonna hear tonight at 7:30. One from Vojvodina, one from southern Serbia. The question is, are we going to be able to discuss the budget normally tomorrow? The second amendment, or I can't say a different amendment when it's the same amendment, but it has nothing to do with the previous one, it's donation funds. I suggested deleting the item and erasing the unknown amount of the item. What else could I write when someone very schooled us, who helped Russia to recover, and only went there because he knew a Russian-like language, wrote in our budget as a small child an item that had no amount. Well, that really doesn't make sense. If you can take it, who will vote for this budget, I can't. I don't want to. But once again I warn you, Mr. President, and I am ending, thank you for allowing me to speak for a minute longer, and from you, I warn you to ask what it was, perhaps still going on at the Vojvodina Assembly session, the phone I left for the MP's club keeps ringing, people from all over Serbia are calling people from Republika Srpska, who are watching a direct transmission of the Vojvodina Assembly session and say this is much worse than all those sessions that preceded the break-up of Yugoslavia. Of all the sessions, so do those who stayed in the Serbian province, but unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, who have now come to power, I am not ashamed at all of what I did for the Serbian Krajina (President - Mr Nikolic, time, please finish) both for Kosovo and Metohija. And by coming to power, you can't wash what you haven't helped anyone to do anything for those countries. Hate for Slobodan Milosevic has turned you against her own people. Whatever Milosevic did, you were against it, so what could you expect? You came to power and you're still in opposition. And I guarantee you, I know some people from certain parties who are now in power, they won't be able to do much different than that. I know that the others are moral and honorable and that they don't belong in this group that has broken our Serbia and is who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2543	Right on line, MP Mr. Dragan the Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2544	Mr. Nikolic, as far as the Rules of Procedure and the length of your internship in parliament are concerned, I was wrong for a year. That internship is one year shorter. But still, for nine years you've received a salary and you haven't learned that under Article 137, I didn't want to tell you then, read, the motion officer has the right to end the debate to withdraw it... Yeah, you can tell when he's a bill promoter. [[Comment by Ambassador Nikolic is not heard]] They're MPs, but we're not going to have a dialogue like this right now. And as for more serious matters than the length of your parliamentary standing, it is an unusual tendency for someone who belongs to the Democratic Party of Serbia, and who I belong to, to be held accountable to the state, to be held accountable to the people. You're trying to tell us what's important in this country, and what he doesn't know by you. It's completely inappropriate, believe me, and you, and anyone else, to inform the MP DOS about it. We know very well what's going on in the area of Serbia, we know what's going on in which part of Yugoslavia, what's going on in Montenegro. We talked about it even when you were not allowed to say it, and then when you did it in Vojvodina, and everywhere else, what resulted in the bursting of separatism both in Montenegro and in certain parts of Serbia. You're responsible for that. You are responsible for supporting the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, sitting in his government, voting for his government, for as many years as you have taught the Rules of Procedure. That's the result of your political action. I spent only a minute and a half and I won't make it up to two, to tell you that Serbian radicals have nothing DOS and me as MPs of that party to teach patriotism, state issues, obligations to the state, obligations to the people, and don't worry, we know who's been breathing on our necks very well, we've known since we were founded, we know today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2545	Anyone else want a word? You can't rephrase it. [[Tomislav Nikolic is looking for a replica.]] Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? He's not answering. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2546	If no one answers their words anymore, I am putting MP Tomislav Nikolic's amendment to the vote. For 57, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted by the National Assembly. The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does a representative of the Committee want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 99, abstention three, did not vote 32, a total of 191. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7, division 8, division 16, and division of the 18th Amendment, was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 128, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, position 33, analytical conto 911-360, the amount of "2,004,400,000" is replaced by "4,008,800,000". The essence of the amendment is about health care and the Health Fund. Here we heard today, Mr. Mijailovic, if I am not mistaken, presented one discussion that should be supported in any case, is in the interest of health care, but said he had agreed with Mr. Minister, and he promised that one and a half times would increase the amount of isolation for health care. It means you could do it right now. Why doesn't that promise come true today, if he really wants and feels the health problems he's having, and he said he feels it, and he's given a firm conviction, about, that today this amendment is already being accepted and his promise has already been fulfilled today. Therefore, we will come in a position that we can, and let the budget reserve be reduced, that we have already fulfilled Minister Djelic's promise today. What is essential, and what should be supported, is a health priority. However, what Mr Djindjic explained, that it is a stand-by priority, to wait for funds from the World Bank, so if those funds arrive, it will be primarily provided for healthcare. But that is it. If it is, it will be, and if it will not be, it will not be. It can be, it doesn't have to mean, but as some experience teaches us, it always does when something's promised, it doesn't end up, and it runs out of funds. I don't think it's right for health care to be on a stand-by, let something else be, let the budget reserve be a little lower, it's 7 billion, let it be reduced to five, and let those two billion be provided for healthcare as of today, because the situation is catastrophic, critical, and it can't wait and can't be put off with that problem. I'm going back to that principle of justice, which I was talking about, and I've been truthfully interpreting an official document, obtained from the City of Kickind, and also from individual municipalities, how the salaries were raised. You can compare now - the president of the SO, the secretary and president of the Executive Board, when the three are added together, has as many as 10 specialists, 10 surgeons, gentlemen. We cannot talk about the principle of justice in such relations, which is data for January, February and March. What's going to happen and how you're going to change these amounts, whether you're going to apply that principle of justice, we're going to see that, we're going to talk about it when you do it, or not, but please, today is the situation. So it's completely unsustainable. We have the opportunity to fulfill Mr. Djelic's promise, we have the opportunity to repair things for justice in principle, and now it's just up to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2548	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's not answering. I am putting the amendment of MP Branislav Blazic to the vote. For 53, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 191. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 for position number 10, analytical conto 911-010, amounting to 24 million dinars, changes and amounts to 17 million dinars, so that Svega was divided by 368,400,000 dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia must share the fate of Serbian citizens. The government must not be greedy, grammatical and grab everything that can be grabbed. The government of the Republic of Serbia should be thriftful and rational, having in mind the overall economic and social situation of Serbian citizens, especially health workers, education, education, education, etc. who have no privileges. That not everything in governments is ideal, and that even in the Republic, possibly in the federal government, there are things that are not right, says one, to me as the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, a frantic data. Something that shocked me. My colleague and fellow Smederov fellow MP from the DSS, Mr Dragan Shormaz, in a public duel that we had in the local list "Our Voice" in Smederev, five questions to him, five questions to me, Tuesday 27 March, we Serbian radicals everything we say, we always have arguments about it, he said something I really can't understand. (To my question - Goran Vesic, deserted) Shormaz answers - Goran Vesic deserted, there is nothing to say. As there is nothing to say, Goran Vesic, adviser to Interior Minister Zoran Zivkovic. To advise him to withdraw heavy weapons from southern Serbia. The enemy rattles weapons at the borders of our country, and Nebojsa Covic 500 million dinars to withdraw heavy weapons. We Serbian radicals have something to say. I can give my colleagues Goran Vesic a list that literally says it all. Furthermore, the position number 149, analytical conto 911-190 - amounting to 300,000 dinars, type of expenditure - Anti-grader protection, increase to 600,000 dinars, so that Split 26 - 904,000 dinars. Countless examples of the city's efforts and the plight of the people and the damages going to astronomical heights. Many citizens live on the fruits of their work, out of their torments and actions in the fields of fruit and warfare. The whole of Serbia is suffering, and it would be very useful to pay very good attention to the anti-building protection it deserves, which, unfortunately, it will not have through the vote of such a bad draft of the budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2550	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment of MP Dragan Colic to the vote. For 49, against 118, there were no abstentions, no 22 votes, and a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The last amendment we will consider today is an amendment to Article 7 submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2551	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 7th in Section 6 - Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Co-ordination Body of the Federal Government and the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, amounting to 500,000, are asking to be replaced with the amount of 80,880,000 planned for Kosovo. We believe that this is a very small and low figure, given that it is today several times, or MPs have said that the 500,000 figure is necessary because the army and police are guarding the Serb people in southern Serbia. Who guards the Serb people in Kosovo, gentlemen. They keep themselves there. This is a very small number. Only if the gentlemen didn't agree with the terrorists who asked for two kidnapped soldiers from the soldiers' families to pay 200,000 marks for their delivery. Apparently, they strayed and entered a street that was forbidden for soldiers. Six civilians were also kidnapped, and to this day they were not returned to their families. I would ask MPs both the SPS and the DOS, when their bosses talk about Kosovo, not to applaud, and when speaking to the DOS chief about southern Serbia, also not to applaud because I do not see that they have certain results both, when it comes to the two ends in Serbia. In Section 8 - Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, we ask that in the part of the Agricultural Budget the amount of 5,100,000 is replaced by 8,800,000. This amount is necessary for irrigation and disposal. I think the riverbeds are also in a very bad state, so that a large number of cities have had floods in the last two or three years, as is the case in Jagodina. In Section 16 - The Ministry of Social Affairs, the special republican social security account and the amount of 1,700.000 is replaced by 2,100,000. In Section 8 - Ministry of Agriculture, and that's what I said. In section 16 -- when it comes to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Soviet Union is asking for an increase in the amount of a special republican social security account of 400,000 used to help the Serb people expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. I suggest that all Serb families who are expelled and who are in Serbia, who have over five members of the family, and that the family does not have a single employee, receive average personal income in Serbia. The SS, gentlemen, helped that people because the SS MPs are going to go and pay their salaries to the Serbian people, but we think it's a very small figure. Also in Section 16 - Ministry of Social Affairs, it replaces the value of ten billion for 10 billion and 500 million. On the mentioned contom, the amount is increased on purpose for the payment of children's allowances, women who give birth to children, and live in the countryside and agricultural activity is their only or basic occupation. This will increase the birth rate in rural areas and prevent further ageing of rural households. If we were to say that the old government destroyed the peasant, and when you adopt this budget today, or tomorrow, and the Bill of Tax and Excise Law, our peasant has to wait a year to get something. I would suggest to all MPs of all parties to accept this amendment, because the Soviet Union has shown that it is a constructive opposition. This proposed amendment helps Serbs living in Kosovo, Serbs who have escaped from Kosovo to Serbia, agricultural producers and mothers who give birth to children, living in the country and their only interest is agricultural production, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-29-0.u2552	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 126, with five abstentions, four were not voted, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're finishing today's session. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is much less than we've established by electronic means, 101 MPs. We've determined that we have a quorum to decide and resume the session. I would like to inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Muji Mukovic, Radjko Petrić, Boško Ničić, Milutin Svetkovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic, Vladan Jovičić, Višnja Nežić, Branislav Grubački, Novici Đurasković, Natasa Milojevic, Marko Jakšić, Vuk Antonijevic, Zoran Bosković, Dragan Sutanovac, Marko Đurišić, Srđa Popovic, Milki Marinković, Borisa Novakovic, Vojislav Jankovic. Neda Arneric reported a leave in the morning, but she's here. Zivanko Radovanchev reported a leave of absence from the morning session. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2001. We continue to consider amendments to Article 7. Here you go.
