ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5080	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament - good afternoon. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that 122 MPs are present today's session, according to official record. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. I ask the service to count how many MPs are present. Since the count found that we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the public that there has been a delay in the number of MPs due to traffic jams due to the arrival of the Swiss president, so the roads have been blocked. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that they have reported the absence of the following MPs: Siniša Mitrovic, Dusan Golubović, Gordana Komić, Milos Lučić, Velimir Živojnović, Aleksandar Stefanović, Karolj Kermeci, Vuk Antonijević, Marko Jakšić, Borvoje Mijatović, Ljubisa Đoković, Laslo Torde, Atila Juhas, Branko Bešević, Zoran Bošković, Boško Ničić, Neda Arnerić and Zoran Milovanovic. In the morning there is Zoran Novakovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Nada Kolundžija and Stanko Kovacevic. The delay was reported by Dusan Prorokovic, Aleksandar Popovic, Filip Golubovic and Goran Ciric. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and END OF THE LAW ON WORK RELATIONS (specificities) I remind you that at yesterday's session, we suspended the work on this item of the agenda at the time when we were to vote on the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5081	I am voting on amendments from MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 49, against 120, with abstentions, there were no votes, 6, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from the People's Messenger, Toma Bushetić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5082	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, my amendment refers to the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, in Article 1, which relates to Article 34 of the previous or basic law, which states that all employees who remain unemployed should have a certain remuneration. I believe that previous solutions, solutions in the current law, are more favourable for workers and all employees and should be left behind. We have been having a debate these days about what is more favourable, whether more favourable solutions are given in net amounts or more favourable solutions in gross amounts? I think 6 net amounts are more and more favourable for workers than two gross amounts and 12 net amounts or 12 net wages are more favourable than 5 gross salaries. I suggest that these net amounts be converted to gross, since we've already adopted the gross principle, and in this way we'd come up with that right solution. In any case, I think the previous solutions are better by at least 50% compared to the proposed solutions. I think the amendment is good and is favourable for workers, for all employees and should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5083	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that you should accept the amendment of MP Tomo Bushetic, if for no other reason, then for one selfish reason, because for many of you the conditions of Article 1. Proposal for amendments to the law. There will be no need for many of you in this National Assembly. Here, for days, since the new assembly meeting, every day at least one president of Switzerland visited Serbia and every day at least one day we have no quorum and we take a break an hour to gather the quorum, to clear the roads, since the president of Switzerland has come to visit our beautiful and sweet country. Yesterday, Mr. President, we didn't work this afternoon, and Serbia doesn't know anything about it. People are calling and asking if there was an incident, if there was a fight in the Assembly, why the Assembly didn't work, why there was no transmission on the third channel, how did you promise the MPs of the National Assembly? We owe it to say that yesterday afternoon we didn't work because there wasn't a majority in this National Assembly because the MPs went to watch the football game. They forgot their basic obligations and went to the game. Because we lost, all the jinx were there. Since the time of Tito and Milosevic, state leadership has never gone to games. Yesterday, you went to make us a marsh, to embalmer and lose such an important game. Maybe Vojislav Kostunica went to see where the staff would surrender to him at the stadium. Just talk, today the Assembly can't start working. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] So when we don't have a quorum today at 10:00, how's it gonna be at 2:00 when you go home...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5085	Mr. Nikolic, please stick to the subject and talk about the amendment by which you responded. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5086	I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. President, it just takes a little while for you to understand. I warn you, as many factories will run out of work, as many factory workers will be surplus, so many of you will, after the elections that I hope will be very soon, be excess. Think about these severances. It would be good if, if you don't think of workers across Serbia who are anxious to pass this law, think of yourself a little bit. I already see in the hall a lot of people who will never be MPs again, although there are political parties, such people will not be sent to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5087	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5088	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the title of my predecessor's finding, that we have held more sessions since the constitution of this Parliament and that we have had more working days than was the case with parliament, in which most have provided the party, which he represents over the last three years. I think that's enough argument for everything he's said and I warn him that if he breaks the Rules of Procedure next time, I will ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected. If the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly are not respected, I do not see why the decisions made by the congregation should be respected. So we have a responsibility to treat each other responsibly and to talk about what the subject of the agenda is. Mr. Bushetic's amendment is logical in itself, if the environment in which the amendment would have to be applied is excluded. In the interest of every government, including the government that has been chosen by most DOS in the Assembly, is to improve standards, I think we will agree on that, at the same time, to protect all those whose rights are at stake, and possibly the rights of those workers who remain unemployed. However, we live in a time in which there is a great pace between rights and situations in which this right is partially applied or fully applied. The law governing the field of employment was adopted in 1996, and it is, if we read it quite acceptable, during which time it was brought, net, gross wages, which are the circumstances that we can discuss today. In that social aspect, he's acceptable. A jobless worker shall be defined by the circumstances under which the worker is left without a job and will be protected in such a way and, among other things, by severance, which, in the event that he has 10 years of employment, will be 6 net earnings, if he has 10 to 20, the relationship changes, and if the worker has worked for 30 years, then, of course, he will be protected significantly more than those who have just started their working relationship. The problem, however, is that these rights are not respected and rarely and fully applied. So, we as a Parliament are responsible for the vote of law, which we can reasonably suspect in advance that it will not be respected to the extent to which it must be, and must be absolutely, because otherwise the laws are meaningless. We made analyses that clearly talk about a number of situations in which the employer did not because he did not want to, but really couldn't pay the workers that severance or could in part. We cannot, as the parliamentary majority in this House, propose a law that we will know in advance that will be respected, partially and only in individual cases will be able to respect absolutely, and given that the circumstances under which the worker is left without a job are very precisely defined. So it's a worker who can't achieve the possibility of retraining, can't move to another job, about a worker who can't change the company after taking over between two companies. It's about a worker who's in a very difficult situation, because the company he's working with has failed. The collective agreements defined by the employer's obligations are at that point ambiguous because one party, the signator of the collective contract, no longer exists. That's our reality. You had an example of "Cablara", not an ominous example, but an example of "Cablara" in which workers had to voluntarily give up that formal, legal right, in order to be able to exercise some other rights that they could use, only after a change in their status was established. So this law that we have proposed is a law that will be fully applied. Six gross salaries will be paid for workers who have worked for 30 years or for workers who have worked for up to 10 years two gross salaries. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Five salaries. Yes, 5 salaries, I'm sorry. This was an amendment to me that referred to point 1 to point 4. For him who loses his job and has up to 10 years of employment, two gross wages will be paid. We can't pay six net wages, because it's not realistic that an employer and under these circumstances can dispose of such funds and then why bring someone into a position to break the law in advance. These are the analyses that I'm trying to convince you not to challenge your good wishes, but it's not realistic at this point to work for those who are completely on their knees, to respect even this law, because such a thing is impossible, since they are like the other side, which is bound by workers to respect it, but have failed. Two gross salaries will be paid to every worker, who has up to 10 years of employment in companies where they lose their jobs. The funds for the retraining of the workforce will be provided, jobs will be allowed where people will be able to achieve their right to work, to do their job, and we will resuscitate the consequences of 10 years, a very difficult time in which the economy has not had a chance to succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5089	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I've only come out to say one thing, to say three words. I think the amendment of our fellow MP Bushetic has his own justification. I think the Assembly should adopt it in a certain way and the previous speaker has confirmed the justification of the amendment by explaining that it is not applicable under the existing conditions. The question is to what extent can this explanation be accepted, because we, too, as a parliamentary group of SPS and other MPs, when we discussed some other laws, and above all about a set of tax laws, said that these solutions are not acceptable at the moment, because of the economic situation in which we are also due to the economic power of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5090	If no one ever answers my word again, I'm putting MP Bushetic's amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vujic, Stevan Guduric and Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Are the applicants of the amendment reporting for word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 1st paragraph 1 of the Law on the Completion of the Labour Relations Act has been filed by me for the reason that this member is very restrictive and speaks in fact of the fact that a large number of workers will be out of a job. This is supported by a fact that reduces compensation for workers for whom the need for work has ceased. It speaks in fact of this law, which we adopted in principle, and it also speaks of the intention of DOS authorities to apply this law, that is, this amendment by bringing the workers fired into a very difficult material situation. Of course, this article will not be equally applied to all workers. I believe, first of all, that, given the reduction in this severance, workers who are DOS political non-insidents will first come under attack, and that this is in fact a preparation for workers, of course, to bring them to their senses and not to vote for opposition parties, and above all not for the SRS, because they have been on fire since the DOS government came to power on October 5th, the repressions and cancellations of political insinuators began. Also, it's very symptomatic that the DOS majority excluded from the session of Dr Vojislav Seselj, a professor from whom you could learn something, so instead of learning here lessons from some repeaters, you could learn from Professor Vojislav Seselj about execution...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5092	Please speak of the amendment you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5093	It is very important that I say this because at the same time this bill does not protect all workers equally and brings them into a difficult situation, first of all, because the reduction from the previous law to point 1, and especially at point 4, where the severance is reduced, and more than double, for workers who have ordered over 30 years, will bring these workers into such a situation that they will not even think about the money they will receive as compensation for other purposes, except to buy bread. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1) at point 1 - 4, in order to at least partially protect the interests of those workers who are going to lose their jobs and I propose to increase allowances for workers from points 1 to 4, as I have stated here in my amendment, and therefore I propose to the Assembly that this amendment be accepted, in any case before the budget, which the government has already adopted, because an inflow of funds from abroad is expected, which is why the DOS majority has promised in the election campaign, and thus will be able to replace the deficit that would be created by increasing this severance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5094	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have brought two amendments to this law. One on Section 1 through 4 and Article 6, so if I don't make a double call, I'll put it together. We heard two interpretations yesterday about what this law will bring us. According to one interpretation, given by Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, it is from 25% to 30% more than before and then we heard from Mr. Minister that it was objectively something less than it was before. So the fact is that it's less objectively than the previous law has given, because whatever it takes to account will simply show that with these new proposed solutions it is less. To accept the reality that stands and exists that the economy is not in a bright state, but we also have an announcement and there is a statement from the other day, whether Mr. Assistant or Deputy Minister Vlahovic said that by June, "The Beocinski cement factory" would be sold. I don't know which way, since we still don't have a law that could end this privatisation. Will this mean that Lafarge will be able to buy the Beocian cement factory for a little bit of money and then release workers under more favourable conditions than it would at some point. That's a serious question. If it might make any sense where there won't be a change in ownership structure, but what we do is where someone comes to buy a factory, one or that one, it doesn't have to be this one. What's going to happen in that situation? Is this where we go accidentally or deliberately to someone who will come to buy our factories? In that part, the government must have had two arches to cover it. What is not the first case is repeated in this law, and it has been repeated in some previous package that we had before, that it writes differently, so I will tell you about Article 6, to use this time and not to report twice, in Section 2, it says: "The minimum earnings of Article 1 of this article are 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic according to the last published data of the Republic's statistical authority." Then, according to the same law on page 2, it says: "The minimum profit is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic." The review of the provisions that are amended on page 4, reads: "The minimum earnings of the Article 1 position is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic according to the latest published data by the Republic's Statistical Affairs Authority". Then you have the custom of saying that the opposition is obstructing the work of this assembly, and how can we be serious about laws that are at least technically not properly written? This is not the first time, since it was before, and I showed Mr. Djelic when he was a percentage of the income tax in two legal projects that mentioned it were equally different numbers, so I would ask the future government to at least technically make the right law, if it's essentially not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5096	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. I propose by this amendment to double the amount of severance you are proposing to Article 1 and where you are changing the old law that has been in force so far, Article 34. The reason to increase this double amount of your proposal has more parallel points. You are the only one through the president of the parliamentary group, here we have heard today, admitted that what you have suggested, this Article 1 from point 1 to point 4, in any mathematics we use, and we have used these two months and various variations of the same mathematics, in any case, a smaller amount than was proposed to the old article 34. On one occasion, it's easy to give. All employees of up to 10 years of insurance, members of the 34th law to date, had six amounts of net. If the average net today is about four thousand dinars, it's about 24 thousand dinars. If we turn that net of four thousand to gross, that's about nine thousand, as you suggest, ten years from now, we have this article 1. The bill, where you propose a double amount of that profit, and that's 18 grand. It's a dry fact that says that there's a sum of six, and you don't go to point 4, you'll see that the amount is smaller anyway. What the legislator is doing is in a way demagogue approach under this law and is going out to meet employers. What's going to happen? The situation in the economy is what it is. What this law and the law that are to be suggested, the law on privatisation that will come, and what is in the correlation between them, like that pension insurance law that will soon come on the agenda, which is within this session, is the following: there is a certain scale on which the employer, i.e. the company, is obliged to pay contributions to pension insurance employees and there is this scale, and it says a minimum of what must be. You know the situation in the economy, you know that many companies won't even be able to meet it. For employees, it is convenient, but from today on, ten years to wait for them to retire. For what the employer won't be able to do, he'll be hanged by the criminal provisions of that law. In the final instance, criminal provisions will come to the state's support of the company. Looks like that's the point. On the other hand, we have a minimum profit from personal guaranteed earnings. He's also an employer on the obligation to pay off that minimum wage. If we know what the economic situation is today in this country, many companies will not even be able to pay even minimum profits and will again come under the penalty provisions of the same law. In the final instance, what do these criminal provisions mean and how far do they lead? They lead to the state supporting these companies again. When the privatisation law comes, what DOS wants to state, all businesses, the state will be the one that will sell the companies, the companies that created the employees. Then the state will say -- there's been an interest in the West, there's capital coming in, we're doing privatisation. All of us in this country now understand why Djindjic's 1994 law interrupted a process that began in the area of privatisation. Now it's clear to everyone why, as many as two months ago, we abolished the law on ownership transformation, just because the state would take everything into its own hands, and the state, it's now DOS, and then, under the conditions they wanted, they'd sell to interested partners the factories that the workers were so hard at, and as someone here at DOS said, and perhaps bloodyly created and trained. That's it. What is now achieved by this amendment? It's on the hands of the employers. Where such a situation is, given that under Article 26. - if the employer can't secure all employee rights, he gets a chance to fire that employee. And what's he gonna do? What he's going to do, he's going to pay him as much as he is. In this way, this goes hand in hand to DOS, this is the situation in the economy, the more (workers) will be fired, and the businesses will spend their substance, as many say, and when all crafts are spent, the state will take these companies without workers, because the employer will be able to fire these workers now more favourably, because there is a smaller amount of severance than it was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5098	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5099	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to react since it is again spoken through the assumptions and interpretations of the privatisation law that will only be on the agenda in Parliament. Only after the opposition's MPs read it will they be able to assume the kind of relationship they will be in at this point in time before bankruptcy and a state that is obliged to regulate their status, despite the fact that they themselves are in a very difficult position. As for the funds, the rights of these workers, you have now said that this is what we do to employers, and in the criticisms that you made during the previous day, you said that we are destroying the economy. So, we've already taken one step forward in defining relations within the economy and it's been established, in your opinion, that we're handing this law to employers. What about social enterprises, who is the association company that needs to enter the privatisation process of employers, who owns the company, who we are handing out to a social enterprise in which we are asking to apply this bill, which I believe will be adopted in Parliament? We have come before you with a principle of severance that is real, not with those relationships that only on paper can stand anywhere else. It is not necessary, and when we read the Constitution, we will see that neither the provisions of the Constitution, nor the fundamental ones, which we speak of the capitulation of the country, are respected in this country, of the withdrawal from the work of its territory, of the rights of all citizens. So I ask the Assembly to adopt a law that will be realistic. It is not realistic to expect that a company that is unable to pay 24 salaries to a worker whose job is deprived of the need, which is unable to provide him with requalification, which is unable to allow him to move to another job within the company, which is unable to transfer his working relationship to another company, is not realistically expected that the company will be able to pay six net wages, especially not given all of those trends that exist at the moment in the economy. Workers go to the labour market with written consent to give up their own severances. Workers don't get the severances prescribed by law, they know that, and all those who really want to deal with this business and who want to deal with facts for real. Two gross salaries are the maximum that the economy can withstand at this time and it is better to pay off every worker who loses his job than to pay off two, and because of the fact that the amounts that can't be remunerated in some other situations and leave everyone else unsecured. This is the principle of social justice, with compensation through the budget and the funds intended to retrain the workforce, with the regular payment of the social obligations of the state towards the part of the population that is socially at risk, and we will go through a period of transition that is itself difficult and would be difficult even to keep the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5101	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, explaining the previous amendment, spoke a series of lies. It's not true that the severances are not paid, but the employee chooses, if the severance is denied, he has the right to the Employment Service. And he calculates what's more worth to him, whether to give up his severances, to drag his rights like an unemployed person, or to take his severance, so he can't use the rights he has as an unemployed person. That's what you need to know. The second thing -- it is true that Milosevic handed Kosovo and Metohija into the hands of the UN. What part of the territory did you surrender to the hands of the NATO Pact? Who violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? You pulled the police out of Luciana yesterday. Who leaves our territory and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Every government sees whether it has the support of the opposition or not, or is strong enough to break the constitution at times. Well, you're here every day hurting the Rules of Procedure, but you have a majority that confirms he's not hurt. So now you, Mr. Jovanovic, while Milosevic had your support to accept the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, thought it could go smoothly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5102	Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5103	I would ask you to at least say the same thing sometimes to Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5104	That was said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5105	It's not God's.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5106	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5107	I wish you'd said that, but you didn't. Now, both a representative of the government and a representative of the majority parliamentary group here, convinces us of a few things, first guarantees us this payment, we even heard Mr. Jovanovic say -- we can't pay anymore. Mr. Jovanovic, this is an employer's obligation. (Employer Jovanovic, from the post: It is not true. ) This is the obligation of an employer who has a worker whose work has ceased to be necessary. These obligations you speak of, which were greater to this day, until the entry into force of this law, were paid even when it was a bad government, and when it was a blockade, and when businesses didn't work. Under this new power, we are expected to flourish in the economy, and you are reducing the severances of workers who will be out of work. Or it's not true that the economy will flourish, and it's obvious that it's not true, because you're reducing severances, you're already predicting today that a lot of people are going to be out of a job. Keep an eye out, an employer who doesn't pay his salary you've provided for a rigorous measure to get an inspector's order to shut down the company, the factory, the workshop, for up to 90 days, unless the pay is paid. What about the severance? If this member is so rigorous and necessary to protect workers, why didn't you provide for these provisions? What you didn't for an employer who didn't pay his severance fee, predicted he couldn't work for three months until he paid his severance fees, but you provided a fine of 2,000 to 200,000 dinars for the company, and I mean up to 10,000 dinars for the director or another responsible person in the company. There's something wrong with that, and don't stop us from telling you it's because you're preparing a law on privatisation. It's completely clear. Then why did this law go before the privatisation law? Why couldn't the workers have seen what the privatisation law looked like, so to tell them it is, but -- here's your right under that law, the one who's out of a job, here's an extraordinary benefit for him. Then he'll say, "God, don't vote for that privatisation, you don't provide us with as many rights as we've had so far." And yesterday I said it was hard to find a measure between the employer and the worker. Sometimes you have to protect the employer, and sometimes you have to protect the worker. But when you take these workers and those employers to the budget, you're ruthless, rigorous. You don't ask whether he'll be able to pay or not. The budget has to be filled. Now that you've come to other obligations that produce rights only for workers, then you've already become favored by employers, and you're saying that privatisation will be very painful and that many people will be out of a job. Mr. President, here's my chance to answer one question. It concerns the exclusion of Vojislav Seselj. Yesterday you told us we'd get an approved stenogram. Yesterday, all the media reported that at the proposal of one MP, Budimovic, not yours, was excluded Vojislav Seselj. I've read the voting list. You didn't vote for exclusion either, Mr. President of the National Assembly. That's why I'm asking you to correct the mistake. It's still possible. To put the motion to the vote now to cancel that decision. Because it was absolutely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the same Rules of Procedure by which we make commitments for the citizens, for the workers, for the employers, for the unemployed. People will tell us -- when you're so rigorously able to crush the Rules of Procedure, the question is, in general, how do you pass the laws, and I'm going to tell you how you bring them. You don't have a majority in this congregation. Use only the presence of opposition MPs to pass the laws with 176 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5108	And time, and theme, and agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5109	Here I am, at least you're obliged to always be 126 MPs for the bill so we know it was most. You are using the parliamentary majority that allows you both part of the SPS and Party of Serbian Unity to pass laws. And when an MP is to be disfellowshipped, you are gathered here 126. And when the law is to be passed, then you're gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5110	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5111	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I agree with the fact that we can mishear each other, but the state has no obligation to pay severance fees to workers, it's clear, unless it's state property, so state-run enterprises. I said that we as a state are obliged to create an environment in which the economy will be able, in a state in which it is, to realistically address the consequences of workers being left out of work. That's right. Nothing else. As for your observations that we have further protected the employer by not predicting situations where the employer does not pay the severance fee, so we punish him in cash, and let's just say we don't shut down his company, like in some other situations where the members of this law don't respect it, it's not the same. So it's very clear that it's a member of the 15th of this law that's practically changing Article 40. The 1996 law, which says the labour inspector will prohibit the employer's performance. Therefore, prohibit the employer's activity unless he has concluded a labour contract with an employee. Article 11, or the second contract of Article 129 of this Law, has very precisely defined the labour contract. It is known what is meant by the contract of employment that, by not respecting the labour contract, it is an obligation to pay the employee’s salary once a month, the employer will lose his job. The article you mentioned, Article 16 of this proposal, amended the amounts paid on behalf of the penalty. If the employee is not paid for the earnings within a fixed period, but is paid, therefore, if he does not pay after 30 days but after 35 he will pay instead of 1,000 dinars, as so far, 10,000 dinars, instead of 2,000 dinars. These are important differences. Therefore, wage payments are being sanctioned and labour contracts are roughly sanctioned, thus jeopardising the basic rights of workers by leaving the employer without a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5112	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I'm very interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5113	The MP is obliged to speak only of the agenda. Mr. Jovanovic did not talk about the agenda point. Maybe there's some bill that the inspector will be able to close...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5114	Mr. Nikolic, you are entering a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5115	Please, I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5116	It's very difficult in the replica, you well know, Mr. Jovanovic answered for a replica of your exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5117	And he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5118	And he couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because the replica says otherwise than when it comes to the amendment. You know that very well. Please do not enter the replication, but point out the argument in favour of violating the Rules of Procedure that you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5119	Will you let me say a few sentences or I'll go out again?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5120	Please don't throw it away, if that's in line with what you're reporting for, I'll allow it, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5121	I called to say that he hurt the Rules of Procedure by misleading the National Assembly, and to say that he was deceived.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5122	Which member, and we'll get that straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5123	Article 143(1), third subparagraph I'll go out again, President, don't... But you didn't answer my question why you didn't vote for the exclusion of Vojislav Seselj, and you allowed the vote to be cast on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5124	I'll answer your question if you want at the coffee shop, but it's not the subject of a debate at the assembly session. The reasons are clear enough. Anyone who is a Democrats knows how to plead when it comes to a plea. I don't know how you do it in your party, but when it comes to me, I'm sure I won't vote "yes" or "no". If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 16, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the amount of severance, and in the proposal, we have again received amendments to the Labour Relations Act, and we expected you to offer us a new law. Because if you're criticizing our laws and you're always saying that everything that's been done in the previous period wasn't good, why in 80% of the cases you're using our old laws and, with the addition of a few sentences, make a new law and offer it to us. Usually, changes in rates and criminal measures, and when it comes to contributions to the budget, it increases, and when it comes to giving equipment to citizens, it always decreases in practice. This applies to the amendment relating to the payment of compensation to employees whose work has ceased to be necessary. In a member of this law, in these cases, under the old law there were between 6 and 12 salaries, and you proposed, by your new law, two to five salaries. The Socialists suggest that it be more than you suggested, because we think it's more right and it doesn't make you uncomfortable. Whether you're right or you're right, the company workers will say when they lose their jobs on this basis, and that will happen very soon, when you propose a law on privatisation. You're asking-- would any of you agree to work 25 years in a company, lose a job and get five personal incomes? Five personal incomes, whether you count them, gross or net, or you give some new law, some new name, that's a little bit. In 25 or more years, the worker must have earned, investing in that company, so that if he loses his job, he gets those five salaries, even if it's gross, as you call them, it's never much. A package of tax laws will have an important impact on the proposal for this labour relationship law. What do workers with 30 years of internships do? Who's gonna take them back to work? Who's that who doesn't want to get a job? These are three issues that prevail, because at the age of 30, the worker loses his ability, he can no longer contribute to any company and it will be difficult for anyone to decide to take him back into work. Next, they say they're not interested workers, after this, for work. I don't see and I don't know if anyone wants to work if they're 25 years old and they don't want to have a working relationship until retirement. I just think, how does business and what tax laws are, that a lot of workers will be left without such a small amount of compensation. Not all businesses are in the same position, there are companies that will leave workers without this compensation. And finally, I think the labour law aims to free small-money workers in privatization of companies, because foreign bosses don't want to buy businesses with this number of workers, because they publicly say that when they go around companies that are going to buy. That's why I proposed to my amendment a number of salaries, if it comes to losing a job, and not as much as it was in the old law, not as minimally as you suggest. The proposed legal solution basically means pay the government, the employee and the worker, if you can. I suggest that in a situation where there is no means of profit and contribution, a reasonable solution should be found, to determine the percentage of the profits of the company and to set out the total amount of the company can make for wages and severances. These funds are lawfully allocated for salaries, both for workers' earnings and for contributions to the state. It's earned to share to be both a worker and a state. Since you have a majority in parliament, it is your responsibility, if in practice you prove that the law is not good, you will certainly be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5126	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should accept this amendment, and I am obliged to state my position and to warn the citizens in a certain way - why it is changing Article 1 to make it more unfavourable for the workers than it has ever been. It's only because of the announced privatisation. Now, there's a possibility that a social enterprise can fire a worker, say there's no need for him anymore, or whoever takes over and buys it. I am convinced that in all the companies that your strategic partners have thrown your eye at, during social property, you will reduce the number of workers, because your strategic partner does not want to burden you with a large number of workers. It is true that at least twice as many workers work in our factories as the number that would produce the same production. Now, ever since you came to power, there may be ten times as many workers as the production that's being made under your authority. But what about those workers? The severance -- since there are a lot of them, to reduce the severance, so we don't burden that new employer with even severance. Well, and if he has to fire, there are no penalties for him and it is not true, and we are deceived by the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority in this assembly, that there are any sanctions, other than a fine for an employer who does not pay for the asset (Article 14 does not mention it, Article 16 is clear, changes only amounts in Article 142.) and Article 142, point 11 of point 1 states: "The fines from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars will be fined for the offence of the employer if the employee is denied the right to severance". And another CEO of 10,000 dinars, and that's all, that's all fines, all the sanctions that the employer will be charged with unless he pays the severance payment. So, to have a small number of workers, he's willing to finance their salaries and he's willing to accept that you close him down for three months, he's going to pay such wages, and he's not going to get into that situation. But that the severances are as old as they are today, and that it has to pay them off, or that it doesn't produce three months, that's the condition he didn't want to accept, because people who don't care about our society's social problems are coming. Excess employees, unemployed people, they don't care at all. They're interested in factories where profits can be made and they're interested in factories that can buy and close, to sell their goods on our market.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5128	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5129	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, by all accounts, becoming a political debate on the law that will only be before Parliament. Of course, this is, in my opinion, an incorrect view of the opposition that, without a bill, counting on the fears that exist in society and which we are aware of, counting on the difficult situation in society, further makes it difficult for us, criticising us as an alleged authority that will make it all to make the difficult situation of workers even more difficult, reducing their rights. What is the solution for an established social enterprise that either does not produce or produce products that even workers themselves are not ready to spend? What is the solution to social property? Is there, apart from North Korea, Cuba or any other such interesting part of the Zamal Cup, a serious economy in which social property exists? You've been running privatisation processes for the last time in 1997. During the transitional period, Minister Kovac has just accelerated the privatisation process in accordance with the law, since changes in monetary policy have occurred in the meantime so that no more official, not a real state course of our national coin, but we have evened it out with the real one. It was a starting sign for fast privatisation in which companies, worth millions of marks, were bought for several hundred thousand marks. These were, as a rule, done by executives who, as a rule, encouraged the parties in power or were close to the parties in power. So this is the law on working relationships. If you criticise the labour law in that member of his who is said to be on the desk, or paid for the severance, it does not guarantee that the employer will be subject to sanctions unless the severance is paid to him, that is not true. The employer, by decision of the inspection authority, will lose his job, his company will be shut down unless there is an employment contract. This is Article 15, which is amended in Article 140. 1996 law. The labour inspector shall prohibit the exercise of the employer’s activity if he has not concluded a contract with an employee, or a second contract. The contract on work is all very precise. The labour contract shall specify the situations in which the severances are paid and the amounts of these severances. The statements weren't real, they weren't paid. It's true that you told the workers - take the severance money, but then you give up some rights. What rights do a worker give up when he raises his severance? Why is he even in a position to make such a choice? Why, according to this law, doesn't he just take severance and enjoy rights like all the other workers? (Glass from the O.R.: How long? Two years. That's the problem, a very serious problem. The workers will be paid, the economy can endure it, and we will force it to do so under this law. All those incorrect employers will be forced to comply with this law and have a correct relationship with employees for whom the need for employment ceases, and they will not only determine it, but the inspection bodies will also have to confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5130	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have no doubt that the DOS inspection is doing extraordinary work. They're doing so well that inspectors are always complaining that they need to find something because they have a directive to find something. Don't worry, we won't be like that when we get back to power. We're still one of the scheming teams that makes it different. The voice from the O.R., you were the one who killed the schnooker. (President: Mr. Ivkovic, please stick to the agenda, not to talk about science fiction today. If you think, dear gentlemen, that this is science fiction, then why are you angry if someone tells you to call the election if you are confident that the people support you? However, as soon as Bane Ivkovic speaks at a rally in Novi Sad on Saturday -- we are looking for an election, you will all be angry with Banet Ivkovic immediately. Come on, prove it, then call it off, and let's see where we are. (President: Please move to the agenda) I'm doing it for your science fiction, Mr. Martian. Therefore, I call on your president, who made the election on his cheek and on his congratulation, to just check the trust of the people. (President: It will be. I thought we absorbed the privatisation story yesterday. But obviously we didn't. I have an obligation, since the previous speaker spoke of it, to speak a few words too. Otherwise, it is on the agenda to amend the MPs, Hranislav Peric. The amendment of Ambassador Hranislav Peric corrects that injustice I was talking about here. Minister of Labour and Employment, I apologize for calling him Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which I was warned in the meantime, otherwise, the President of the Union of Free and Independent Trade Unions, has used the introduction of a warm meal, stamps, field allowance and regress to the taxation system to reduce the amount of funds that the employer is obliged to pay as a severance payment after 10 to 30 years of work experience. We showed after this pay phone yesterday that it's paying off, with new proposals, instead of six months' net earnings, two months' gross earnings, less than I said, about 12 or 13 thousand dinars, and so on. The deficit's getting bigger, which is years of working hours per employee. So, Hranislav Peric, with his amendment, essentially enables you to prevent what the minister has done in his proposal and to enable, by accepting that warm meal and everything else in the gross earnings system, to allow the severance that the employer must pay to the employee, to be equal in financial terms, even slightly greater than it was in the old solution. So the old solution was, for example, six net profits, a new solution is two gross profits. Franislav Peric suggested more that the amount of money in the severance would be equal to or greater than it has been so far. It's technology and you understand what it's all about. If we're talking about privatisation, first of all, I'd like you to tell me the name and name of the director who became the owner of the factory, according to the autonomous, as you call it, transformation, and we say labor transformation. So, according to that transformation that you've abolished. You won't be able to say the name and name of such a director, because there isn't one. It is true that Professor Oscar Kovac, thanks to the fact that the new leadership of the National Bank of Yugoslavia has led the course of stamps and dinars to a real relationship of 30 dinars for the mark, has practically accelerated the privatisation that then became correct. Because privatisation at the time of the six dinar mark was a robbery. (President: We will have the privatisation law on the agenda. Please stick to the topic). Mr. Chairman, it does matter, Mr. Jovanovic talked about it and you didn't interrupt him. (President: Ali, shorter. I'm a professor, and teachers always talk a little longer. Therefore, privatisation has been accelerated thanks to the fact that social property is truly valued. It wasn't possible before because there was no real evaluation of social property. This privatisation is a fair privatisation. This privatisation, if it had remained, would have allowed today a big swing of privatisation that you have abolished and prepared the law to suddenly offer 5,000 tons of chocolate to the one who needs two chocolates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5132	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5133	It is notable to call upon an MP who takes his word to speak, to speak of a subject that is on the agenda. Mr. Ivkovic now, of course, abused that right, told us what they would do once they came to power. Of course, it is in the way that the President of the Assembly commented on me, but Mr. Ivkovic put it in the context of some rally in Novi Sad from which we were sent clear messages. I asked about it yesterday, so if Mr. Ivkovic repeats the message that Mrs. Aregina sent us, then I warn him that it is neither smart nor responsible. Secondly, Mr. Ivkovic here asked us to name some kind of director, my God...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5134	Mr. Shabic, you're getting out of the agenda. Please speak of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5135	Normally, to applaud Mr. Ivkovic, it prevents me from saying the name, so I won't, I'll respect the Rules of Procedure, but I can say on another occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5136	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not mentioned the name of any MP, except Mr. Chad Jovanovic in the context of privatisation. You could hear it well. Secondly, everyone for what he says answers himself. In no way is it good to stick to the words that someone else has spoken for someone else, especially if there is some mutual, family prehistory that causes respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5138	If no one ever answers my word again, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 93, a abstentioned one, no 38, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic together submitted an amendment to Article 3 which essentially refers to Article 1. It's a bill of law. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. Not accepted. ) Do the applicants of the amendment appear for the word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word is by the MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind the Minister of Labour and Employment that the draft law on amendments to the Labour Relations Act is on the agenda. You weren't in the process, you were talking, so you'd know it was the law. (Dear Milovanovic, from the post: Thank you. ) We have just heard the official say that the fees paid to workers who are jobless will be somewhat less than they were in the previous period, but that they will certainly be paid. He says we can't pay six gross earnings, actually, five gross profits tops. I really don't understand that he suspects that the economy under DOS will flourish and that it will be able to pay off. If that's as much a burden as the worker will be fired, how many people will be out of a job. Proposer of the law in Article 1. The bill says that an employee whose work had ceased the need, who could not have obtained any of the rights under Article 26 of this Law, could stop working relationship on condition that his previous payment was made by a collective contract, with an employee of up to 10 years of internship, and at least at the level of double the amount of earnings, from 10 to 20 years of triple, from 20 to 30 years of quadruple and over 30 years of age, is employed by insurance at least at the rate of five times the amount of earnings. With our amendment, we have proposed the following changes: up to 10 years of playing field at least at triple the amount of earnings, instead of twice the amount proposed by the Government; from 10 to 20 years of the quadruple amount of earnings, instead of the triple that the Government proposes; from 20 to 30 years of employment, an insurance rate of at least five times the amount of earnings, instead of the quadruple proposed by the Government; over 30 years, it employs insurance at least at eight times the amount of earnings, instead of the five-fold proposed by the Government. Up to the height of 30 years of insurance, we only followed that amount that was in the previous Law. However, in workers who are jobless and have over 30 years of employment, we asked that it be an eightfold figure. It's about people who are older, between 52 and 58, and they'll be the hardest. Those new jobs won't work. After 24 months, the amount they receive on the labour market, which is minimal, they remain in one vacuum until the rights of the PIO are realised, means until they are 65 years old. This money, however small, will allow them to create some savings, that for at least one year, a year and a half after the end of that period, when they receive through the labour market the right to buy the most necessary and minimum needs of their lives. It's small amounts, relatively small amounts, because a small consumer basket today costs over 12,000 dinars, so this won't be big money for them either. What I have to say is that Serbian radicals do not agree with the bill, with amendments to the law, which we will see in the next law on the rights of unemployed persons, that workers of over 30 years of employment may lose their jobs without receiving compensation for the exercise of pension rights or for new employment. But if that happens, and I'm sure you'll adopt it, this way we can at least enable those most vulnerable people in the category with over 30 years of internships or over 50 years of life, that at least they have a slightly higher fee and that they have at least such a little more security.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5140	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5141	Article 114, it is not disputed that we have a quorum, but we have one 30 cards inside of us, of the MPs that are not there. There were 131 of us just now in the O.R. and 165 of us were in the O.R., and 165 of us were in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5142	We'll determine the quorum, please the MPs to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5143	It's not a disputed quorum, it's got 30 more cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5144	I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Here you are, by amendment, Mr. Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do have an understanding for the president of the Assembly who is unable to protect Serbian Radicals and our people who are arrested in Serbia, but indeed by saying that his party is democratic, because he knows best that especially in Majdanpek has been protested over dictatorship in his party and political centralism. He knows perfectly well that their activists and the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5146	Mr. Cvetanovic, I made a mistake, so I gave you my word to the Rules of Procedure and let you speak, but then at least stick to the amendment. You've submitted a joint amendment, and you don't actually have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5147	If so, I'll proceed later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5148	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 106, there were no abstentions, no vote of 8, a total of 152 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st position, the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a cut? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5149	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable members of the government, first of all, on my amendment, I would like to draw attention to the fact that he is now a member of 34. The labour law was provided for that the employee, whose job had ceased to work, could end the employment relationship in the end, and this was related to the following cases, to those workers where the employer could not offer a second job schedule; it could not ensure the establishment of a working relationship with another employer, professional training, retraining and prequalification. Only in such cases, if all the prior assumptions were exhausted and the worker had to stop working, then in those cases the employer was obliged to pay the severance payment to the worker who was left out of work. This severance would provide some material security for a shorter period. The government now proposes a significant reduction in that severance and the compensation it provided him for some period of this material existence. The government explains that this has been defined because of the transition to gross wages, even when it is recognised that it is now more gross earnings than it was before, it can be seen that this is nowhere near earlier amounts of severance. Let's take one guess, one hypothetical example based on the average of paid personal income, earnings in the past month. That's it, there's a 4200. It's very easy to calculate, let's take this category of workers up to 10 years. Six earnings at 4,200 is 25,200. Now two salaries are proposed, and if we take that 4,400 means we get 8,400, in two months we take a warm meal, and that's 25% of this quarter, or a quarter of the personal income and a quarter of 1,050 dinars, that's 2,100 and 2/12 of the regress for an annual holiday of 4,400, and that's 350 dinars per month and we get 700 dinars. That's 11200 instead of 25,200. It's said - both taxes and contributions. The law doesn't stand, at least at the level of double the amount of profit. At least it stands for gross earnings, so it doesn't happen after the ministry's interpretation -- gentlemen, the worker didn't receive taxes and contributions, but only received that amount and is now increased for taxes and contributions. I don't think this is right, because it can happen to take twice as much as it's ever received before. Furthermore, the government states that in a difficult economic situation, it is those employers who have workers whose work has stopped the need, which is mostly true, as well as that they do not have financial resources to pay for the severances. It is also said that employers should operate on market principles and retain the number of workers they really need. Employers, truth be told, should devote more time to business policy and these are the right market principles for employers. Now the question remains what about the workers who are out of work and so forth on the street. The government said it had been defined to help the socially endangered, to exclude the social burden from the company and to provide funds for social security and the care of the unemployed and those who remain unemployed. Does the government keep that promise? Based on this bill, it's obvious that she's not holding on to it. It significantly reduced the amount of compensation to workers who remain unemployed by their proposal. It does not provide any amount of funds to employers who fire workers without the possibility of payment to be provided to them in another way. Ambassador Jovanovic here spoke of a guarantee now being given. I don't see that guarantee being given right now. So, if the company can pay off, and if it doesn't, no one will be guaranteed that fee. There is no compensation through the labour market either, and we will see how the amount is reduced there today when we talk about the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, because there are also narrowing the rights to cash compensation, the parava on disability and pension and health insurance of the same workers who remain unemployed. For this reason, I think that the amendment that I have submitted should be accepted, to maintain that workers who remain unemployed are paid the fees, as was previously regulated while the SPS was in power or something more, and that would be if these amounts were retained without taxes and contributions, meaning, at least at the level of these amounts of earnings as it was made in the proposal. Perhaps there is still a need to define the criteria, that when the employer does not have the means to pay this fee, it is provided through the labour market. If we install it as a legal provision, then we will be sure of what MP Jovanovic, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, was saying that workers would be guaranteed. If you don't get it into the law, there's no guarantee. Finally, honourable Members, when we make a decision on this, let us consider the economic and social situation of the workers who are left without a job. Let's vote for one human decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5150	The word is Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5151	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to draw attention to one piece of information, one fact. So far, the severance bill has been defined through net earnings and their number has been 6, 8, 10, 12, and so on net earnings relative to the number of years of work. The government of the Republic of Serbia now proposes that gross earnings be the basis for collection and so forth, it also proposes that the severances be defined by the gross earnings system. Instead of six net earnings, he proposes two gross earnings, and we have already proven that two gross earnings are less than six net earnings. That's exactly what the SPS MP proved. But what's going on? If you actually adopt this law, now gross earnings are earned by the burden of net profit is 100%. You're saying that you're going to reduce the loads, so it's going to fall to 70%, to 50%, what's going on in gross amounts, so it's going to reduce the loads. What's going on is that the severances are being reduced, and you're introducing the severances in the form of gross earnings, you're basically telling the worker that his severances will be less if his burdens are lower. I mean, figure out how bad that's not a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5152	Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is a party that advocates privatisation. We will support any privatisation that corresponds to both the state and the people, and the employer and the employee. We're not going to support a privatisation that only corresponds to those who come here to tear our economy apart. These laws are the preparation for this privatisation law, so we read them in detail, so we're looking for the kind of repercussions that the law on privatisation will have on the worker. Obviously, we're absolutely right. He's wrong, Mr. Jovanovic, there's no obligation for an employer, so strict, to pay for the severance. The labor contract regulates and earns. With the labor contract, you're also making a profit, yet he had to predict that he would close the employer's company for three months, unless he was paying the profits. What kind of worker, when signing a labor contract, means severance? Whoever signs the labor contract, he thinks about how he's gonna do it and what he's gonna make. There's no contract of work to be said - as soon as you get a job, your severance will be so much and so much. The severance payment is not protected by anything except two fines. One, which will be paid by the employer and the other, which will be paid by the director or other responsible person. You're preparing the ground now, not thinking about what's going to happen. We'll have French, German, English, Dutch, and French people living under bridges. The Swiss have jammed traffic today, they're coming in, they can't get past the MPs. In France live under bridges, in Holland under bridges in pairs. You're not predicting that for our people. It all started out wrong with you. Here, for the first time, we didn't qualify for the World Cup because the baks had come. You should have told your president, Kostunica, if the cat crossed his path not to go to the game yesterday, because it would bring an accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5154	Minister Milovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5155	Mr. President, honourable MPs, if you please, I would just like to clarify a few of the questions Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Ivkovic have raised here and about the issue of severance. In Article 108. The labour law is very clear that - the employee stops working, regardless of his will, by canceling the employment contract by the employer and so on, and now there are these points. It is now said at point nine - when he is paid compensation within the meaning of Article 34 of this Law, it is mandatory to pay him compensation, and if he is not paid the severance fee, he remains employed, which means he will continue to receive the salary. Article 142, you don't want to read, it's a little bit of a problem, it says - criminal provisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5156	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5157	Penalties for the employer - in Article 142, paragraph 10, if the employee is denied the right to severance, fines from 2,000 to 200,000 will be fined. So that's regulated, too. The labour market issue, Article 35, says - employees, who have been cut off by a working relationship within the meaning of Article 34 of this Law, exercise the right to have temporary unemployment in accordance with employment regulations and are not said anywhere that the person who has received the severance has no right to compensation from the labour market. I think that's clear to everyone. This is where a cheap political demagogue is sold, about how wonderful you were, so you provided workers with one paradise, and we are now as worse, so we provide them with nothing: we provide them, dear gentlemen, with security. What you've never been able to do. I was in a meeting in the Chamber of Commerce this morning with the top 150 companies in this country, with the biggest debtors, and you need to know that the debts in this country are internal, and the amount is 835 billion. This government is trying to solve this issue. So these are the consequences of that policy you've been taking. Now you're talking about severances. No one paid off the workers. You know, they were forced to sign off on severance. Why? Because they didn't have the money to pay them off. It's a reality. What is now being offered to workers, it is one security by the government and it will be respected. Please don't take care of the workers who lose their jobs. The government will take care of that, and she made it very clear. The government will form a transition fund, which will be entered by all workers who lose their jobs. The government will take care of them and make regular payments while they are in the fund, until they are overqualified and found a new job. You know very well, gentlemen, that this economy needs to breathe, what you never wanted to do, we do now. The workers of this country need to know that this government will take real care of them. Thank you. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5158	What is it, Replica? Well, there's no replica. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the post: said Mr Nikolic and Mr Ivkovic, he mentioned. No, he didn't, he just said-- you--we did. There was no replica, Mr. Ivkovic. (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, from the post: I said Nikolic and Ivkovic. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5159	Mr. Chairman, I commended you yesterday, and today is the second time you've estimated my harm. I can't praise you anymore. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: "E, that's where you're wrong." I see. I spoke exclusively of severances for this speaker, and I specifically spoke of the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposing these changes to the Labour Relations Act, essentially damaged workers by translating payments and the number of payments on the basis of net earnings, to the number of gross earnings payments, in fact, to allow workers in the form of laws to receive less per new solution than they would have received from the old one. I was just saying that and nothing else. I was even talking about the principle of gross earnings that leads to a solution that's kind of pointless. If the government of the Republic of Serbia promises to reduce the current burden from 100% to 80% and 70%, and since the government is proposing redundancies in gross earnings, it limits their number and will eventually reduce severances. So, not only are they now in the proposal less than they were in the previous solution, but they will decrease how the burden on the profit account decreases. That's all I was saying, and you're all witnesses, and viewers, and the minister didn't deny it. The minister allowed himself, like all ministers in the DOS government, to deal with politics. I can only say that every company had a duty under the current law and the worker had the opportunity to even through the court, provide more severance than this new proposal guarantees. I can still say that after NATO aggression, even during NATO aggression, we have allowed workers 24 average personal incomes if they were published for small and medium-sized enterprises to return to agriculture, but we will talk about it when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5160	Here you go, replica, did you mention it? I didn't hear anything. There you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what Chamber of Commerce Mr. Minister was in when DOS in the election campaign said it would immediately lift all state chambers. Maybe you were at some private gathering that formed a chamber. Or you were in the state chamber, Mr. Minister. It's the same chamber that existed at the time of the previous government. It's the same chamber that's gonna lead you as she wants. This is about only one item of the agenda, not the dots, as you speak as an illiterate man, exclusively about the rights of workers whose work has stopped the need and you should have explained it here. But you explained it yesterday. You said it loud and clear -- it'll be less than it's ever been before. You have nothing more to explain to us. We warned you today that even less, the new employer would not have to pay. There's no prison. His company's not closing. He'll pay a fine if he doesn't pay less. You're still in opposition, Mr. Minister, you're still criticizing a previous government that hasn't paid anything, but has instructed workers to sign. You're in power. Now we ask you what this law will do. Your answer wasn't - e, it was like this when you were in power. That is not a satisfactory answer for us as Serbian radicals. If it wasn't good when we were in power, arrest us, and I'm not throwing it to you (to the minister) and don't throw it to me, Mr. Minister, when I'm behind this pay phone. Because it's a reflection of your unculture. The MPs can get me, and you have to keep quiet here and listen to what the Members of Parliament say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5163	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I don't know if any of the excessive concerns have been suffered, but I have reason to doubt that in such incorrect efforts for workers, we will be compromised as a parliament unless we speak solely on the basis of facts. You can assume, and we can give examples. And, this is not an opportunity, since it is not appropriate for DOS lawmakers to violate the Rules of Procedure and those provisions which define that the speaker can only speak of the agenda point, to cite all those harsh examples of social justice fighters who, during the period of time, mainly solved their own problems and by the rule, not always, at the expense of workers or if they were dealing with other people's problems, were then mostly ineffective. As for criticism that this law will not be sanctioned by an employer who does not pay for the severance payment - something like that is not true. It is very clear that the situation in which the employer who is late with the payment of the severance payment, or the payment of earnings, which is determined by the inspection body, will be sanctioned by fines. If he violates the labour contract, the inspection body will prohibit him from working. Is there more sanctions in the economy than that? Maybe some prison sentence, but it's not the subject of DOS or the inspection body, it's the judiciary that will then interpret his actions. I remind you to read Article 15. Proposal for a law calling for Article 140 and for amendments to be made. It also calls for a member of the 11th existing 1996 Law, which says that the employer is obliged to conclude with a person who has a working relationship a work contract before entering into work and to report it to the official insurance companies in accordance with the law. So every company worker has to be this way in a defined relationship with the employer. He must have a signed labor contract. If there is no signed labour contract, the employer will be prohibited from doing his job. He'll be prevented from doing that. It's very clear from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5164	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st point 2 of the amendment, MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5165	In Article 1(1), point 2 is replaced by the following: The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law replaces the word "threefold" in the word "six hundredfold". I've put this amendment on account of people who are categories 10 to 20. They should be the most damaged if the government, which proposes these laws, does not appear today, or does not appear for a long time at sessions of our sessions, and what they would do if they already knew everything in advance, and since we are imputed to comment in advance as Serbian radicals... The government has designed all of this in advance, and there is no need to attend these sessions. What would she attend when she sent her emissaries, who, for example, circle around Serbia and do the bonturing of all companies they consider and think they should in this next privatisation law bring them in to those they have been talking about for a long time. In order to protect employees from employers who are to appear in this space, I have proposed this amendment. These employers probably want to come to a safe competition and that there are no consequences that would be fatal to them. Therefore, this amendment should protect workers, i.e. the employer has an obligation to deliver - i.e. he acts by law, so it is regulated. The easiest thing would be to accept this triple amount proposed by the Government, i.e. that there is less expenditure under this law. The severance will be a drop in the sea of the economic impotence of workers, and if it is six times they will come at least, in fact, give some hope for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5166	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 106, there were no abstentions, no vote 21, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 1st point 3 of the amendment by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Since the applicant of the amendment isn't here, is anyone applying for a discussion? No, I don't. ) If no one is applying, I would like to put the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 39, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st point, paragraph 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is finally not disputed that a large number of workers will be out of work. Finally, let us conclude that it is a close link between the labour law and the law on the upcoming privatisation. It's all based on social property. Therefore, it is obvious that we will meet in a very difficult situation, especially workers who will lose their jobs. They'll be in the hardest position. In the most difficult position, in the structure of these workers, there will be workers over 20 or 30 years of employment. The question arises - what will the employer do, although a lot of reasons have been given so far in this direction, obligations stem from the employer's contract, but in practice it is difficult to achieve. And the question is, what happens when the employer gets to see his inspection shut down his company and won't let him work for three months? In three months, the question arises, what will happen to these workers? As a daunting circumstance at the moment we are in is the situation where our state, and many companies, stronger, which have also done business under some more normal conditions, have been exposed to bombings and enormous material damage has been done to these companies. A large number of workers were also on forced leave, due to numerous damages and hawari. I will only give you an example of Panchev, who died in aggression - "Azotara", "Petrochemia", "Utva", "Lola", "Rafineria" and others, where thousands and thousands of workers were out of work and were forced to be on forced vacations. To repeat, there will be workers in the most difficult position who have over 20 and 30 years of employment, so I was also motivated to propose, gentlemen Members of Parliament, a change in Article 1st point 4 to go, instead of double, to the tenfold payment of severance fees to workers who remain unemployed. It would be a period during which workers would be able to cope under new circumstances, and for them very difficult. Given that social property is still present, the Serbian Radical Party is in favour of privatisation, has always advocated, but for fair privatisation, in which no one will be able to damage the workers who have created goods that should be privatised. We have examples in neighbouring Romania, as Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary have passed through the transition. I'm afraid that we don't find ourselves in an even harder and worse position and that our workers really don't find themselves in a situation that they don't know what to do and that they won't be able to provide for their family. That is why I propose this amendment, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I believe that it is clear to you all that this is true and that this will happen to us and that we cannot avoid this without creating a very painful and difficult situation in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5168	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Alexander Vukic, as representative of the Parliamentary Group, on the basis of written authority, to which he is authorised.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to accept the amendment submitted by the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Petar Jojic, because we believe that this really ensures the fundamental rights of those who have over 30 years of internship, those who are already at the end of their working century, but who need to be provided with elementary social security and safe age. I'm saying this because you know, in these conditions, in transition countries, in Serbia as we are today, there's a hard time ahead for these people, for all these categories, mentioned in Articles 2, 3 and 4, because no one can, or anyone can stand the competition -- people who have over 30 years of internships, with those who are incomparably younger, if that's what anyone who took part in the privatisation of any company really doesn't want anything special. I can hardly measure myself with one who's ten years younger, not one who's 30 years old. In that sense, we think it would be very important to double the amount of this severance, we think it would be important because this cannot be in a special way to endanger the employer, thus creating a commitment to make it harder to free people, who are age older and life older, and we seem to be left here with an incomparably greater freedom for the employer to, no matter what he wants to do to the people he thinks are at the end of his working life. The payment of this, as provided for in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, means that compensation will be paid at least at the rate of five times the amount of earnings, is insufficient, because the question is asked - what can this man do now? Will he go to the employment office, will he expect to get something after all, and who will then, in such conditions, when the country is in transition, who will hire him afterwards? And what we've proposed to this amendment can't end up providing for his social security and material existence until we've acquired all the old retirement rights, but it's something that could make something more and more secure for the future than it's ever been before. I am especially telling you this because of the next draft law, which will be on the agenda, due to the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment Act, which no longer requires that an unemployed person, who has been insured for 30 or more years, is paid a fee to his employment, i.e. until the conditions for fulfilling the age pension rights are met, are now only being spoken about 24 months, if 25 and more years have been secured. So, these are still some restrictive changes, which are very significant, which are very close to what we talked about today, and it seems to me that it would be logical for you to accept this amendment, this amendment by MP Peter Jojic, because I don't think anyone is going to lose this one. The employer's gonna be a little harder, but he's gonna find it harder to get rid of those workers who've been doing their jobs fair and square for the rest of their lives. Of course it's going to be more difficult for him, but this way it's going to be simple, and they can even, if you want, and in a completely inappropriate and unspeakable way, free people who are guilty just because they're something older per year than everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5170	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No). I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic. For 41, against 107, the abstentioned, did not vote 16, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed by amendment to delete Article 2 of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, which would remain in force until further notice of Article 63. The reason lies in a simple fact, which is quite reasonable and logical, but depends on how much it will be accepted by DOS. The reasons are: the obligations paid by an employee on the basis of taxes and contributions cannot be considered as employee's earnings. In particular, the proposed Article 2(2) of point 3 is said to consist, among other things, in the obligations paid by an employee on the basis of taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and earnings under the law. This proposal by the Government presents an orthodox example of the applicant's nonsensum. Obligations paid by an employee on the basis of taxes and contributions cannot be considered an employee's salary, because they do not go in his pocket, but into funds. Profit can only be what an employee receives at the company’s cash register or at the business bank’s counters. The new method of calculating earnings increases - only the average of the employee's earnings, which is, and yet only relevant from the position of establishing a pension basis, when achieving the right of the insurance company to retire. Therefore, what an employee does not accept for the settlement of his obligations cannot be considered, and really cannot be considered, except, apparently, with you from DOS, by profit, so you called it net earnings, gross earnings or DOS profits. I believe that, once again, I will read this argument, that all obligations paid by employees on the basis of taxes and contributions cannot be considered as employees' earnings. I therefore propose that Article 2 of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act be deleted and that the existing Article 63 remain in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5172	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? He wants to. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5173	I think it would be good to accept the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Bozidar Vujic. This, as explained in the explanation, I think it speaks best of the necessity of accepting this amendment, an amount of 35%, which is paid as a minimum profit from the average income of the Republic's economy, and is too low to provide the employee's material and social security, above all, in view of the enormous increase in prices to a small one, something that no one expected and something that would be difficult to predict in the future, especially which is obviously much faster and much faster, even the geometric progression, will grow in relation to employee earnings. That is why we believe that it should accept his idea to increase it to 50% instead of 35%, which would protect the rights of employees, and at the same time, we believe that the obligations paid by the employee on the basis of taxes and contributions cannot be considered as what is earned by the employee. You know, it's like now that they've arrested members of security of the Serbian Radical Party, so they arrested a green hand saw. I guess that was their biggest, strongest and strongest weapon. It's a green little hand saw, and they arrested it, brought it to the police station. So that was the most powerful weapon possible, the strongest weapon. Of course, they let them all go. That's what it's like to include a worker as a profit. You count him as a profit something that has nothing to do with him, something he's never seen or won, and it has nothing to do with what he could use to eventually acquire material goods or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5174	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5175	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a proposal, that is, this amendment, not only is it contrary to the efforts that the Government makes through the bill, but it is contrary to the very life and logic of the time in which we live today. I am now not going to analyse here the formulation of the MP who proposed it, but I will ask you what I believe the citizens asked you during your meeting with them. When you're talking, someone must've asked you a question -- excuse me, what about those funds that we've been putting together and putting in, say, the Health Fund or the pension fund, when there's nothing in those funds today? It's not like we didn't do anything, we didn't create anything so that we could today, in accordance with the law that at that time bound us to respect, to have the resources allocated over 30 years of working for a quality denture at the dentist? Let's ask today who can get a quality prosthetic in the House of Health today, and where do pensioners spend 200 or 300 marks today, trying to solve this kind of health problem? So all a worker makes is his profits. He, through the reforms we are entering, will define the degree of separation from his salary on behalf of the pension fund or for the health fund. But it's not a fictitious asset, it's not a nonexistent profit. That's what he did with his efforts. He worked for five years and invested so much money he couldn't count on a peaceful future when he thought he was living on the pension he gained during his 5 years of work. He worked for 30 years and spent 30 years in health insurance funds from his profits. The state did not give funds to him, but instead created, singled out, invested in the fund, and now wants those funds to be available. It's part of his income, it's part of his salary. The reforms that are ahead of us, right in that theme, are going in that direction. He will be able to dispose of funds from his salary, to assess, counting on possible good health, poor health, knowing his nature. Whether he will allocate 10% of his salary or 30% of his salary to a health fund or to a pension fund, but he is responsible from that moment on for making his salary available. We have a duty to tell him - all you've accomplished is your profit [[Alexander Vukic, from the place: I have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5176	You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned at all. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: only two sentences.) Please, Mr. Wolfie, there's really no need to argue. See Article 96(2). Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments to the People's MP Bozidar Vujic to vote. For 45, against 103 abstentions, there were no votes, 17, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2nd, the second amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word of the People's MP is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be a match. I have submitted this amendment to Article 2. The labour law, the norm that is regulated in paragraph 2. I have suggested that item 3 be deleted, because I believe that gross earnings should not constitute the amount of the obligation paid by an employee on the basis of taxes and access to compulsory social playing from work in accordance with the law. So I've also been given this amendment because I'm afraid we're going into a period of inconceivable consequences. I believe that this amendment should be accepted and I suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, accept and adopt this amendment with this brief explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5178	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Aleksandar Vukic as representative of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only say this about this amendment since it partially refers to what you refused, which the parliamentary majority just earlier refused and what we partially explained, I only have to point to one difference, namely inaccuracy and inaccuracy in what Mr Jovanovic was saying. It is true that pension, health funds were supposed to be full, that there was supposed to be money, that there was supposed to be capital that could be rotated, but it wasn't even 1998, and I don't know if it was 1997, 1996 or 1995, there was nothing there, but not one single dinar was there in 1998, and as it wasn't in 2001. Whether it was 1990 or 1988 or 1985, that's the second question. In 1998, he was gone. Why are you telling us this, when you said in your proposal for a privatisation law that workers can have up to 30% share participation, in factories where they've worked for over 30 years, where all their work, their effort, all their knowledge, have made all their skills. Then what's the difference? Then it almost makes no difference. We were talking about something else here. We were talking about the fact here, the minimum profit, or what it used to be called guaranteed earnings. If 35%, not 50%, of what was just rejected and still included in the tax and contribution obligations, and then we talked about how much harder it would be for the worker and it was not by chance that I mentioned those saws that were arrested and detained and so on. That is why it seems to me that it would be good to accept this amendment at least because it would significantly mitigate the adverse consequences of this whole member, of course, and the particular attitude involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5180	I give the word to the MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5181	The Honorable Presidency, this is about practically the same effort to get out of pay, the definition of pay except for the allocation of funds employed on behalf of social security costs. That's not real. I don't know if 1998 was an empty fund more than 1996. I know what I believe you know, and that's that as politicians, as MPs, you talk to citizens and those who have a problem ask you what about the funds that I've allocated from my work in the name of health insurance. Why should we now continue to respect such an anomaly, which is formally before the law, the difference between the earnings made and the funds allocated from that earnings, which are not counted as workers' wages. We've moved on to the concept of gross pay, and that's part of the reform that we have to implement, to correct the consequences of the half-century wrong system that we or our parents have been living in. Anyway, it's not about accusing anyone, it's about respecting reality. As far as the privatisation law is concerned, it will be time to discuss the Privatisation Act. I will remind you of a major problem that has emerged in the privatisation process, which has been carried out in accordance with the existing Law. It's a problem of healthy money, of fresh capital. It is true that shares are shared among employees of the company, it is true that other citizens had rights in line with their work experience, 400 marks seem to me per year of work experience, to have company actions. It is true that the pensioners of the companies that entered the privatisation process also had those shares, but I believe that no one here can challenge me, that none of them had fresh capital, on which these companies could be launched. So as we get into such a situation, there's a notion of capitalization. Korz recapitalisation form, practically what will now be done through the proposed privatisation law, which is said to be true, the workers will have 30% of the stock, and 70% of the stock goes to the strategic investor, and becomes a strategic investor by bringing in capital and thus making the 30% shares significantly more valuable than it would be if the workers had 100% of the shares, but in a company that could not be launched. It is a very small number of companies that can practically use this privatisation law to launch the production process on their own. Everyone's looking for capital, and there's no capital in the country, because you know we owe the London Club 4.6 billion dollars, according to the Paris Club 2.4, that we owe each other in an internal debt of 830 billion dinars. There's no money. The money is on the side of a strategic investor, who, with 70% of the shares he has on the basis of fresh capital, will make 30% more valuable, and certainly significantly more valuable, than was the case with the shares that have been split, with actions of companies that have then failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5182	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, you didn't mention it at all. Please, I haven't really heard, but let me take your word for it that you've been mentioned. So, right on the line, MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was true that there was no problem in implementing the privatisation process, since there was no living money. That's right. It is forgotten that when the efforts and participation of workers are valorised in the creation of both core and trade capital, when privatisation is carried out, the basis for future economic efficiency is created. You're going to make me say something that maybe some of them will abuse after, even if not until the end of fair and fair privatisation, better and more successful than none, because at least in the future it'll be more effective work of that company, that factory, that production plant. That is why it was essential to implement it in the previous period, when there was not enough living money on the outside. When it comes to living money, and we have it, we've been frozen with significant financial resources, two billion were frozen with interest, and that comes to over three billion dollars, if I'm not mistaken. It's not much, and with everything that goes in, we've seen what's supposed to enter our country, so I'm talking about helping the state into budget reserves both at the federal and the republican level, and that's very little money. As for the entry of private capital outside, let it enter up to 5%, and it won't, we still have up to 95% where there will be no living money for the purchase of our social and state-owned enterprises and companies, at least that much. We've calculated earlier that it's possible somewhere barely 1% compared to 99%. Make it 5% to 95%, but it can't anymore, but what we're going to do with these 95% companies, businesses, factories and so on. Why no more rights are given to workers in accordance with the existing law, where we think they were incomparably better solutions, and then we would ensure a more incomparably efficient economic performance in the coming period. That seems very logical to us, not to mention other political demands that there can be even more money to collect war damage from NATO countries, not that George Robertson commands when a student group will be released, whether he'll give us a dinar or two to humiliate a little more land and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5184	Since no one has applied for this amendment anymore, I am putting the amendment of MP Petar Jojic to the vote. For 48, against 110, there were no abstentions, no nine votes, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3(3). The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law, so that the text is changed and the words are deleted: "and depends on the success of the employer's business". All of this because the labour price has so far been determined by the government and above all in agreement with the union and the Chamber of Commerce. Now all this is placed in the jurisdiction of the employer and depends on the success of the employer's business. For this reason, the words "and depend on the performance of the employer's business" should also be deleted, because I believe that the management body and the employer would act by covering up the profits made by the worker in the established employment relationship under the threat of criminal provisions. Penalties and institutions that monitor regularity, including the fairness of the realisation of the collective agreement, will not depend solely on the performance of the employer and should therefore be deleted above.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5186	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. For 50, against 104 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5187	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4 is in collegiate with Article 14. Law on income tax on citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5188	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. For 43, against 101, there were no abstentions, no vote of 19, a total of 163 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that in Section 2, Section 4, in the case of income on earnings, as provided for in Article 64. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act is deleted in full. I suggested this for the following reasons: the proposed norms of the said member are not stimulated to work longer than full-time, work on state holidays, work on religious holidays, night work, past work, work on shifts, regress for the use of annual holidays, work and stay on the ground, therefore field allowance. Because neither the employer nor the employees are interested in this kind of work because of the additional taxation of the fee for this work, and the employees would also be placed in an unequal position, as part of the earnings by these grounds would periodically be achieved only by the employee designated by the employer. I therefore submit this amendment and propose that this member be deleted and I ask the Members of Parliament to accept and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5190	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic. For 44, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, a total of 161 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. The amendment is accepted. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5191	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment refers to Article 5, where the term guaranteed earnings under the amendment and supplementation of this law is converted into a minimum profit, i.e. a termological change, and that would be quite understandable, as it goes on gross earnings as the basis and method for calculating earnings. However, the federal law that regulates the areas of work clearly states that the term is guaranteed and must be followed by the Republic government, if it respects this republican government of federal laws, and we have made sure during the meeting of this assembly that not only federal law, but also the federal constitution has no intention of respecting the government. This is not just about some legal norms that should be respected in order of force and strength of law, because federal law is above every republic as a legal act. It speaks of how much the DOS essentially cares about the federal state, respect for its laws, just as much as in daily - political talks, Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5192	Please, Mr. Mircic, don't disturb us with such a beautiful atmosphere, but stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5193	... attack or commendation. Mrs. Natasha, I understand that humor comes from education, from reading, but you have to understand that it takes a little talent. It's not just that, you're trying to imitate the president of this assembly. I'm telling you what it is. But in order not to enter into each other's relations, after all, there will be these praises and criticisms, daily by Milo Djukanovic, if he considers it necessary, but what is the point? The point is to see what the ultimate benefit and what effect do those covered by this law have? What's a worker interested in in this case? He's interested, regardless of how it's going to be formulated, whether it's guaranteed profits or minimum earnings, or gross, or net earnings, he's interested in that minimum that you say is minimum earnings, to provide him with some minimum existence. Whether this minimum, which you set on average, will be sufficient, best shows our daily life, market prices, shops, though you have some perks in Apple stores or whatever they're called, but come out a little bit and see what you can buy for 60 marks in the "C Market" that you advertise so much. The minister here, defending this amendment and supplementing the law, says that finally workers have been helped, paraphrased, apologized if I do not quote correctly -- "to finally help workers get rid of the payouts of their own incomes, or pay in half." Minister, you were the union president in the morning. You're not going to convince us Serbian radicals that you've been forced by the director or the leadership. You're not going to convince people here who know, who work in the economy, that directors, financial, general or commercial, went to the meat industry and bought half-breeds. You went from union management, they call you "the lamb brigades," so you introduced the ministers, as union presidents. It's the easiest thing to criticise. What was the point? That kind of help, that was part of the personal income that every worker was receiving. It wasn't the full amount of salary received by the worker, it was part of the salary in the months of the war. It provided you with a minimum for a man to survive. And you, what are you doing? It's simple, you could say, at first glance -- hairstyle or termological changes -- you're actually making fundamental changes. As for Mr. Jovanovic, your remarks yesterday that the payment is not determined by the director and the union, article 6 clearly states who determines the payment of minimum earnings. I can understand that you may have ended up in the middle economics, that direction touristly-vanturist, but you're written enough to read...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5194	Mr. Mircic, that's absolutely not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5195	... What does Article 6 say?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5196	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a folk MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5197	The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 72(1) point 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides a system in the field of working relations. Article 6, as regards the remark that I failed to correctly interpret this law as an alleged student of the tourist course, I will remind you that it uses 35% of the average income in the Republic's economy, so it defines a republican body responsible for statistics, which determines what the average income is at the level of the Republic, and the decision of the employer and trade unions, not one union, but trade unions. I believe there's been a lot of bile debates, so I think it makes sense that someone's misreading someone. It's about these possible misunderstandings of what I was saying. As far as guaranteed and minimum earnings are concerned, it's not a termological difference. It's not just a replacement form in which the essence remains the same, it's a fundamental difference. First of all, who guarantees that profit? Who prescribes the level of that guaranteed profit? The government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia thus assumes its obligation to assess how much it is guaranteed earnings based on which a worker can partially exercise his right to earn. That's deeply wrong. It's the principle of command economy. I believe there are no people here today in Parliament who think this is a good way to manage the economy. We are obliged to regulate the environment, that the environment may be the same for all. We are obliged to provide workers with those legal forms within which they will be able to satisfy minimum rights. So the minimum profit is the minimum right under this law and the minimum profit is certainly not earned by which the worker will still be able to live safely, as is not the average profit. As far as I'm concerned, I think we'll get along just fine. It is important to say that the minimum earnings of June 1st will be 60 German marks, in dinar equivalent, and that it is guaranteed for a long time for 210 dinars. (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, from the post: 280 dinars. Or 280 dinars, I apologize. So, it was nine German marks, according to 60 now, but with none of the other workers can live normally, but I don't think that they would accept without hesitation a minimum profit, instead of this guaranteed and prescribed decision by the government through the agreement with the trade unions, so in this sense, we haven't taken away the right of workers to still influence the making of that decision by the employer in the cost of minimum earnings and the circumstances under which that minimum profit is paid, in which case also the state, through inspection bodies, check whether there is a basis for paying minimum earnings, or that there may be no situation in which the employer pays minimum earnings, and argues with funds on a special account, from which he could also pay what is the average income at the level of the Republic. So the minimum profit is something that's different than guaranteed earnings, and it needs to be seen for sure, with a lot more aspects, than as a mere terminological change.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5198	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Here you go, MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5199	The amendment is fully in line with the legal system governing the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is true that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in general determines that it is possible to pass a labour law. It is true that the law must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is true that, on the basis of Article 115 of the Federal Constitution, Article 2 that the laws and other regulations and general acts in the Republic must be compatible with the federal law. It is the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Serbia. We have already missed one law during this session that was not in accordance with federal law. This was the Law on the Use, Wearing and Holding of Certain Goods, which introduced a tax which was the basis of the tax system, which is applicable in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and is not intended at all as a type of revenue for the republican budget. I understood then the expectations of the DOS that the elections in Montenegro will break up the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and that more, given the slow work of constitutional courts, this topic will not be current at all before the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that there will simply be no federal state, and then indeed the Republic of Serbia would have the right to introduce both taxes and terms, as decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But, please, I ask the majority in this assembly to understand that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia exists. That these elections, fortunately, have won Milo Djukanovic, but not that there is no Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And that the legislator or legislators should again behave in accordance with the Constitution of the SRJ, which is the framework for all our activities. We've got another one, even a tight frame. It's the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but when you come out of one framework that you can't get out of. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is within the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, not beyond it. It's all clear here. There's not even a difference in terminology. What is it - guaranteed, and what is it - minimum profit. Why did we introduce the term "guaranteed earnings"? Not only because he exists in federal law, but also because. Anyway, because these are the people whose work has stopped the need for sanctions, during the bombing, the blockade. The question is, will they ever be hired again? What we had to do was run them all out of the factory without any rights. There are people who have been under the impression of that guaranteed earnings, which is nothing but certain other rights in their factories, even social health and pension insurance, and all the benefits that you have now abolished, for which the employer did not pay taxes, which were warm meals, regresses and various other fees. This time you introduce a "minimum profit" that will be 60 marks, but it will refer to those for whose work there will be a need. It will no longer be on the payroll of workers whose work has ceased the need and which both the state and employer continued to care about. That's what we feel about the laws you're offering, and what we're trying to correct with the amendments. It's our right. This is an opportunity to tell Serbian citizens something that we will remind them of after a few months. And after a few months, when these laws are fulfilled, and many of you who don't deepen in this, or don't think about this, will understand how many devastating consequences are passed by the laws written by foreigners, and qualified translators translate them into the government building of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5200	I can't give you the right to a replica because that's how I'm going to break the Rules of Procedure, because you absolutely weren't mentioned in Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's debate. You didn't mention it at all. [[refers to the MP Mircic who seeks the word - replica]] The subject was your amendment and he had the right to discuss your amendment. Since no one is applying for a word anymore, please do not abuse the pay phone, you do not abuse the time of the MPs and the time of the Serbian state... The MP insists on getting a word all the time. You signed up for the line-up first, and now you want to do it by the Rules of Procedure. The emissary insists. ) Fine, but to specify a member and stick to the Rules of Procedure. The word is given to the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, who highlights the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5201	I would ask the chairperson to respect the members of the Rules of Procedure who clearly say that the right to the replica has an MP whose exposure is incorrectly interpreted. You understand that. You know, there's one category of people that's distinguished by memory of numbers, and there's no range outside of that. So that's what it stands for. There stands the secretary as an official of the Assembly. But I'd just like to explain a few things. I don't want to get into controversy. We want to protect those citizens who will be found after this adoption, these changes, in an unequal position as citizens of Serbia. What about those Serbian citizens who work in federal authorities? Under federal law, they're getting profits. They're guaranteed a profit. And the same citizens of Serbia who are receiving under this law will have minimal earnings. You know, that's the point. We simply deny someone rights. We're doing discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5202	Please, about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5203	It's hard for you, ma'am, to understand this. This is hard for you to understand. Believe me, these days I'm thinking, I would very much like to have your head to rest from all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5204	Mr. Mircic, I'm giving you a warning because you don't stick to the agenda and because you're insultingly expressing yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5205	First, you warn those who earn. The point is, I appeal to the legislator, while it's time for these corrections to be carried out. They mean nothing, but not to put an unfair position on the part of the Serbian citizen. I don't mind changing federal law and being consistent with the republican, but you can't force...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5206	Mr. Mircic, I give you a second warning under article 101. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Mr Dragan Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5207	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are told here to work in harmony, not to waste time and so forth. I tried to establish the degree of harmony that we have and look at Article 112. Rules of Procedure. I think we've entered a critical phase. The number 101, 102, 103, for, against 30 and something, and 145 of us are present. Obviously there are 88 of us here, we counted that there are 88 DOS deputies in the O.R. Obviously, we're at a critical point and I'm asking for a quorum to be determined at this point. I suggest that the quorum be determined, because I have the impression that, regardless of the amendments being rejected here, this law, which we are considering for the fourth day, will remain in the good part without the real support of the representatives of the people in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5208	Since MP Dragan Tomic has voiced doubts about the existence of the quorum, I ask the MPs to set a quorum, they insert their identification cards into MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Here you are, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5209	Dear colleagues, except that the Rules of Procedure have already been injured at point 96 and point 101, I am now advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure by this body, article 80 in several positions. Since the very beginning of this assembly session, the same thing has been happening. The lack of quorum is advertised, and then at the call of the chairman, whoever my colleagues are, those who sit in this room and participate in the debate, and seriously, at least that's how they want to make an impression, don't insert identification cards, and that shows on the screen that they're absent. I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the count be done by hand or by means of the service and determine the actual state of affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5210	I call on the service to count down the MPs, although if we have a quorum, I don't see why that would be done. (Glasses: What do you know about it? We have a quorum, so there's no need to count it. Please continue your work. Since there are no requests for discussion under the amendment of MP Milorad Mircic, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to declare themselves by voting. For 45, against 115, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Mr Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the amendments that we've been making on this bill these days are all about trying to increase giving. In Article 6 of this Act, which amends Article 65, the minimum profit is 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published data of the Republic Authority. I suggested that this amount be 50%. It's quite clear to me, and to you it's clear that neither 35 percent nor 50% can survive for a month, but I think it's a much smaller cost to the employer an extra 15%, and that 15% would make a little difference. I'm not an employee, I'm an employer. Here I come from the employer's position, I don't mind paying 50% instead of 35%. I don't think most employers mind. Because it does seem cynical -- to ensure the material and social security of the employee, 35% of the average personal income in the country, or, at least, to leave the possibility that you said -- is at least 35%, so that you've left the possibility of paying it the way that you can. The 35 percent limit doesn't make any sense to me. And I don't have to make myself clear. If the lawyers, if the professors of law school vote here to break federal law and federal constitution, then what else does it have to be clear to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5212	Is anyone else applying for a discussion on this amendment? The word has Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5213	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 6th member of the 65th is indeed completely different from the former member 65, not only because the term of the guaranteed earnings is replaced by the term of minimum earnings, but also because, by reading the law and the reasoning of the law, which is an integral part of the proposal that came out of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I did not know what the one who proposed the law wanted us to do, and did I not know whether the employees wanted to exercise the rights of the text of the bill, or the text of the reasoning of the law? In two very important things, the text of the bill and the text of the reasoning of the bill differs. The first is the figure - in the text is 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, and the explanation is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. First, 35 and 40 are not the same, and then, average earnings in the economy of the Republic and average earnings in the Republic are not the same terms at all. Now you should know, since, of course, what the bill says will apply, who wanted to deceive the MPs by explaining the bill? Whoever wanted us to look at the argument, let's say - 40% of the average income in the Republic, and to be satisfied with it, and in fact, it will be 35% of the economy of the Republic. That's much less because in the out-of-business, you're making a bigger profit average, you know that very well. Why is this done? Is it a question of deception, or is it a question of what I am incessantly pointing out, which is that the laws, not only do they not comply with the federal, federal constitution, with the Republic, the laws themselves do not comply. The one who does the final review of the law, the Legislative Secretariat, is not at all professional, is not capable at all. Perhaps the secretary of the Republic legislation can take care of his workers who are on sick leave, so that he sends them flowers, oranges and other shipments, but that's not enough for someone who has taken over the role of telling the government - this law can go before the MPs, or, this law cannot go before the MPs. It's the last filter. This bill didn't pass a good last filter. You can see that in article 19. - in the last member of the law. I don't think it's right for you, MPs, to expose us here to interpret what the billmaker was going to say. We're interpreting the consequences of the law, and what you're about to say, it has to be clearly written here -- whether 35% of the economy of the Republic, or 40% in the Republic, but if it's both, it's a little bit because there's no guaranteed profits anymore. This is it now. After this, you go to the street. Did the legislator mean whether or not the legislator meant it, he'll probably explain it to us when he's explaining the amendments? We tried to protect the employees, and now you've kicked out of article 65. (ex) the obligation to consult unions. The unions have been consulted on guaranteed earnings, and with their consent the board of directors went, or if there is no board of directors, the other competent authority, and determined that. I don't usually respond to incursions, but when someone who's a union man waves at me with his head and says I'm wrong, and he won't read Article 65 and Article 2 and Article 3 of the law, which mentions trade unions, then it's clear that our unions are completely, these unions today, completely in the hands of the government. That's what you've been trying for 10 years and finally done it. It's not a union fight. It's not a fight for who's gonna be in power. It's a battle for working conditions, working hours, wages and other receipts. But as soon as the minister sits in the chair as a unionist, he forgets what a union man's duty is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5214	The People's MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5215	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, may I have your attention, as I would like to rephrase. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: "What did he answer for?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5216	I said, follow the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5217	For the replica. On the basis of Article 96(2), which states that a representative or president of a parliamentary group shall have the right to, on behalf of the parliamentary group... Sir, as far as amendments and discussions on amendments are concerned, please also study the Rules of Procedure. I suggest you deal with this instead of the threats you pose to your colleagues in Parliament. Mr. Nikolic, I don't want to interpret anything more than what you said about this pay phone, but I think every single one of them is talking about himself. You quoted the bill and you talked about the existing Labour Relations Act and said that we completely took away the right of unions to participate in the process of making a decision to pay minimum earnings, not to be active, as was the case in the previous Law, and that they participate in making a decision on guaranteed earnings. I will ask you to listen carefully, I will read the position of this law, and I will read the position of the bill with which we went before Parliament. Item 2 of Article 65. The labour law says: "The decision to pay the net earnings guaranteed shall be taken by the Management Board to the employer on a proposal from the Director, i.e. the employer, according to the previously obtained opinion of the trade union". The bill states: "The decision to pay minimum earnings is taken by the employer's board on a proposal from the director according to the previously obtained opinion of the union". Where's the disrespect of the union, where's the cartooning of the union's role, where's the demeaning of workers' rights? Mr. Nikolic, who knows what time you told the lie? You don't have a single fact, not a single argument I'm going out with for this pay phone. You use roughly the position of MPs that allows you to speak even falsely without conditioning the elemental responsibility for something like that other than moral, and we have spoken of your morality many times before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5218	The word has a folk MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5219	Let's get one thing straight when you give the right to a replica, when you give the right to a word. Why don't you, Mr. Jovanovic, ask for the right to speak, as you have, to challenge a replica so that a man can answer you, but you constantly invent to go out on the line... (Kedomir Jovanovic from the scene: I cannot listen to you. The fact that you can't listen to me, you can get out of the O.R. The other thing is, I don't need any attention to hear what you're saying. What kind of attention is that, what are very difficult words that I can't figure out when you guys go out and talk? Don't talk about my morale. I told you all about it yesterday, but there was no transmission. You don't say anything to me. I got an apartment from the state. I'm an immoral man for you. Your day, the day of your security and your activities as head of the parliamentary group, the state costs 3,000 marks. You personally drive an Audi S-8, completely blinded, followed by 8-10 people, uninterrupted, in three cars. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5220	Mr. Nikolic, you've come forward to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5221	I'm going out on the street alone, I'm going down the street alone, I'm not afraid of anyone. What are you afraid of as the head of the DOS parliamentary group? Are you the Prime Minister, so your life is in danger? Who are you in conflict with, Mr. Jovanovic, so you're afraid, so the state gives you security?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5222	Mr. Nikolic, I'm really forced to give you a warning. You reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5223	You should respect both the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition. He says I'm an immoral man, and it doesn't mean anything to you. You follow the session when I say something to Mr. Jovanovic. I never said you were an immoral man. I don't have any data on that, just data on how much you're costing the state. In two months, my apartment goes to support Ceda Jovanovic. I'll pay the taxes for the apartment, and what will Ceda Jovanovic do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5224	Mr. Nikolic, I beg you to return to your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5225	I didn't hear you. You're doing something behind my back, and I don't know what you're doing to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5226	I'm not doing anything behind your back, but I'm publicly giving you a second warning because you're not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5227	Don't warn me. Whenever you warn Mr. Jovanovic, when he breaks the Rules of Procedure, I will respect the Rules of Procedure. When you don't warn him, you have nothing to talk to me about, Mrs. Micic. You can take away any word you want. What that MP with Vojislav Seselj did was planned for a day earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5228	Mr. Nikolic, I'm taking your word and asking you to step away from the pay phone. I'm setting a break until 3:30. [[After a break.]] I realize we don't have a quorum, so I'm taking a break until 4:00. [[Continuing after the break.]] I figure we have a quorum, so we can keep working. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? ( He is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 118, there were no abstentions, no vote of 8, a total of 141 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, the second amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I want to tell you that with some discomfort I have been going out for this pay phone, from the moment the President of the Assembly threatened me personally, from the position of the chairman and the MPs of the SRS, and we heard him cursing our mother for not having a quorum in the O.R. I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 101, on the basis of which the warning was made to Tomislav Nikolic, after the second warning of the measures taken. Haranga, led against the SRS, began the arrest of Mark Krajisnik and the entire security of the Serbian Radical Party, the chairman of the Serbian Radical Party's city board and many activists, who only because they glued stickers - DOS is the worst, and the fact is, they were subjected to studies, their apartments were searched and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5230	I'd like to ask you to discuss these topics at press conferences, not the Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5231	As Marko Krajisnik was released from prison today, we've been taking off these yellow strips we've been wearing for 10 days, ready to put them back on, as soon as you arrest a single representative of the Serbian Radical Party in this way. He's taking off the yellow tape. ) All this harangus, gentlemen, you have also transferred to the Assembly with the exclusion of Natasha Jovanovic, party president Dr Vojislav Seselj, and today you are making it impossible for Tomislav Nikolic to take part in the debate on this agenda point. Of course, all of this will neither scare us nor make it impossible for us to continue doing what we've done so far, constructively, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5232	In addition to my best wishes, I can't determine what you suggested. I don't see a lady with whom I'm communicating. Despite my best wishes, I couldn't determine what your proposal was. Are you just going out for a pay phone and saying that I, as president of the Assembly and your MP group, am harassing you, and that, like you said, you're using a pay phone to give political speeches, not what you're reporting for? It is to point out a concrete violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're picking up persistently and not the first time you've objected to something that's happened in the past. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, is given to the People's Messenger and gives the word as soon as he asks for it, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure stands out at the moment when it came to him. We can't point out here a breach of the Rules of Procedure for something that happened two days ago, two weeks ago, or maybe at a time when you were unspeakablely uniting the state, since you did most of the socialists here. I didn't mention you. [[Applause]] I gave a reply to Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic by appeal, please, I did not mention you or Mr. Vukic. [[Tomislav Nikolic from the post: I have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure.]] It's just her, please. You do not have the right to reply, not because I am not giving it to you because you are a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. Let's get this straight. You have no right, no mention of your party, no mention of you. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Who were you thinking of, Mr. President? [[Tomislav Nikolic from the post: I have the right to replica.]] That's what you think - I was talking to Gordani Pop - Lazic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf. So he doesn't give you the right to a replica, because it suits me like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, for who knows which time brutally violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and has given himself the right to what he does not have the right to do and do, but according to this, (speaks from the Hall: which member? ) you who are illiterate or who have not learned to speak, go out for this pay phone, and say a word, do not torture and make noise from your places. Now, come here, and say what you think, not pretend to be smart, in your house and in your neighborhood, and you can't go out here for a pay phone. So you, Mr. President, have spoken here about the destruction of the state and thus injured Article 99(1), and now I'm going to tell you, you are, not by cursing your mother to the MPs, and that is what you are doing, Mr. President, not by destroying (loud voices: theme), the state. You destroyed the country by letting your president, Kostunica, release a student group, destroying the state for letting all the Shiparians...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5234	If I warn you, you will say that I am brutally campaigning against the Serbian Radical Party, and you do not keep talking about what is on the agenda. Mr. Wolfie, please stick to the subject. I remind you to stick to the subject. (The President and MP Vukic speak at the same time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5235	But you won't interrupt me before I'm done. You are the one who destroyed and destroyed the country in every way. You're pulling an army from southern Serbia, telling the people that it's a shift of NATO forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5236	Mr. Vukic, we can do this at a special session, and I remind you another time to stick to the topic you've come up with. (Employee Vukic still talks to the president at the same time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5237	You are Mr. President, who destroys the country in economic and social terms. You're the one who destroys her in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5238	Mr. Wolf, whatever your opinions are, because you're not sticking to the subject of the agenda, I'm taking your word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5239	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I have advertised a violation of Rule 96. "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, that is, a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group." In response to the assembly's question, Parliament's president made an offensive expression for the Socialist Party of Serbia. I don't think we as a parliamentary group have given cause for such a reaction. The least I expect is for the president to apologize, because what the Socialists did and what our contribution to creating and maintaining this country is the best indicator of time, as well as of citizens who bring their own judgment on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5240	Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5241	Mr. President, you weren't in the O.R. before the break, obviously, and you probably don't know that Tomislav Nikolic was taken a word after a second warning from the chairman, who replaced you in your absence. That doesn't mean Mr. Nikolic doesn't have the right to a replica. On the same basis that you gave the right to a replica to a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, you are obliged to give the right to a replica and to Tomislav Nikolic. See Article 102(3). "The measure of confiscation does not apply to the right of the MP to a replica in the course of the session." I ask you to apply this Rules of Procedure, to get to know him well, and not to make any more of these incident situations using your chairmanship, to flaunt with the MPs, and to challenge your own replica. If you wish to replicate, come down for this pay phone, and argue with all of us as a people's messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5242	Of course, I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to answer you. You have called to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I really don't know how many times I have to say what you know, that I am obliged to respond to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure and I'm doing it now, so I'm going to interpret it now. I did not say that I am not giving the right to a replica to Mr Nikolic because he does not have the right, because his word has been taken from him, but because neither the party nor him nor his function I said - looking at you and speaking about you, and you interpret it as you will. I'm careful enough that when I speak, I don't give a chance for a replica, and you can't take that right away from me. I won't speak so you have the right to reply. I was looking at you, I was talking to you, and I said -- you were in a coalition with the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I kept saying what I was saying. I mentioned the Socialist Party of Serbia and Mr. Obradovic gained the right to replicate and has the right to replicate. I will not apologize to him, though, because I have spoken my political stance, not anything offensive, and I have not given Mr. Nikolic a replica because neither he nor the party are mentioned, nor his words are misread, which are the basis for gaining the right to replication. Nothing more Mrs. Pop-Lazic than that and don't convince anyone that I'm unfairly interpreting what Mrs. Pop-Lazic said. If he won't get an answer, don't ask a question. If he won't get an answer, in other words, simpler, don't mess with it. Nothing offensive is said. The Rules of Procedure clearly state, I cannot give you a replica, nothing offensive is said, you are not misread in the performance. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5243	Mr. President, for you as well as for all the people's messengers that the messengers of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. What am I getting at? You want to explain it to me. I understand your aggression. I've studied the aggression of Erih Fromm and I know when one group or individual is aggressive, when he feels threatened. The fact that you feel threatened, it's quite clear to me that it's causing the aggression that you're manifesting like this. Imagine how aggressive individuals are and how aggressive the people of Serbia are and how aggressive they will become when this aggression from his stomach starts, and then it is a conditional reflex. Listen and learn something. If you continue this way, you will cause aggression with the people, and your aggression is the one that causes that other aggression.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5244	What you're objecting to now, I don't understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5245	Article 100 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If an MP says something offensive to someone, even if it is the president of the National Assembly, there are sanctions in the Rules of Procedure. The secretary of the National Assembly was not elected face, not chosen by the people. He's constantly showing us some rude signs from there, like a middle finger, and then with his hand, he's causing the wrath of the MPs. I'm asking you to warn the secretary, and I'm really telling you that he's exaggerating in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5246	On Article 6th, the second amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5247	The Rules of Procedure got hurt before I started discussing it. I'd like security to leave the O.R. because Article 222 says they can't be in the O.R. Have them come out first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5248	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5249	Security needs to get out of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5250	Where does that say?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5251	Read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5252	That's what you should have read. Can you read?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5253	I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5254	"Keeping order in the building of the National Assembly and in other rooms where the National Assembly works." Is this maybe the room?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5256	"It provides a special service, and its organisation and order are determined by a special act by the President of the National Assembly." What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5257	"Keeping order in the building of the National Assembly and in other rooms where the National Assembly works, provides special service, and its organisation and work are determined by a special act by the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, who is responsible for the work of the National Assembly, manages this ministry. The authorised officials of the state authorities cannot have access to the premises referred to in Article 1 or take any measures without the approval of the President of the National Assembly." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6(2) of the Amendment Law and amendments to the Labour Relations Act of 35%, it has changed to 60%. The employer is obliged to pay the employee an adequate salary, in accordance with the law, or collective agreement. Where an employer is unable to provide funds for the payment of an employee, in accordance with collective agreements, or at a level higher than the means necessary for the payment of guaranteed net earnings, he shall be obliged to pay the employee the net earnings guaranteed, in order to ensure his material and social security. The employer is obliged, under the condition that an individual collective contract is established, to pay the employee the difference between the guaranteed net earnings he has received and which he has made in accordance with the collective contract. The decision to pay the net earnings guaranteed, within the meaning of Article 2, shall be taken by the Management Board, with the employer, on a proposal from the Director, i.e. the employer, according to the previously obtained opinion of the trade union. What DOS government has promised in the election campaign should be fully respected. I would ask the President of the Assembly to grant me, if possible, out of the agenda, to say something very important here. If you can let me, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5258	Here, a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5259	It's a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5260	That's how much I approve of everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5261	First, the emergency exit of representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture to flooded areas and results from the field, to be delivered to the Assembly. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, in the middle where I live, we're all almost the same nationalities where people share in good and bad. I spent several years in Kosovo, where nationality stood out with words -- it's easy to be a Serb in Serbia, but it's hard to be a Serb in Kosovo. That's what I saw and survived. We Serbian radicals advocate the equality of all citizens, but not at my own expense, that I cannot say in my country who I am and what nationality I am. My name says who I am and what I am, and probably this lady who's here, Miss Jelica probably says her name is who she is and what she is. Yesterday, dear gentlemen, a group of Shipatarian terrorists was released. (President: Time. I felt like a second-class man in my country. Just one more sentence, with this procedure, you have confessed to the Republic of Kosovo, you have given them the greatest criminals because they return to the scene, by raising their hands, have shown on the bus that they will continue their fight. You forgot about the crimes they committed. They raped our mothers and sisters, killed our children, and you trampled your democracy. We, Serbian radicals, are humiliated as citizens of this country by your democracy. The statement by Mr Batic, Minister of Justice... (President: This is three minutes off topic. )......................................................................................................... That we should go through moral catharsis. Which is a lot, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5262	Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5263	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(2), I would like to ask that you allow me to use the right to reply, as a representative, or president of the DOS parliamentary group, since, in my opinion, our parliamentary group is offended by the appearance of the predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5264	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5265	Thank you. Deme and gentlemen, MPs, there may be boundaries between us, those political and programming. I don't think there should be any boundaries between us that have led to such a rough division in our society. Divisions, which are finally in my opinion, and the essence of the tragedy we've been through, which we're going through today. The DOS is often criticised for, in my opinion, being unfounded that we have taken justice into our own hands. That's not true. The performance of my fellow MP, my predecessor, showed the desire to keep this right, however, to define justice, in the hands of politicians, which certainly should not be a rule and should not be left without comment in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Justice does not recognise the national principle. If someone thought that such an attitude would come to life in our society over time, he was wrong and he was wrong. Even those who occasionally performed such an attitude eventually gave up on the rhetoric. Yesterday, the Supreme Court did not annul the verdict of the so-called student group because DOS felt some kind of political obligation towards those who all the time believed that around 150 Serbian citizens, Albanian nationality, were wrongly convicted. Yesterday, the Supreme Court, acting in accordance with the law, made certain decisions that had deeply compromised us, not as a government, but as our predecessors who in one famous way tried to replace with a shortcut what had certainly been a bad consequence, among other things, and their authority, but also the relationship between the work of the Albanian national being to their own state. The people who were released yesterday were the people who were convicted of the law and who spent their days in the prisons of Serbia against the laws. If someone wronged the law, then sanctions must be imposed on him, not on anyone else in his name. We would not have the moral right to seek the release of abducted Serbs, nor to seek the fate of 1,300 missing Serbs without doing what we did yesterday. Yesterday, Serbia confirmed that it was civilised and decent, so Parliament is not the place to be tried by those whose name is the Supreme Court reached a verdict. When the court estimated that Mr Vojislav Seselj was relieved of his teaching duties at the Faculty of Law, contrary to the law, we were obliged to receive that information and not comment as politicians. When Dragoljub Milanovic was released by the District Court, on the day of the two-year bombing of RTS, we as politicians were obliged to receive that information and not to comment on it. In Serbia today, the judiciary... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Separated from the legislative, executive, and on the subject of the student group, I ask you to act as responsible people, as politicians, that we leave this kind of work to the Supreme Court and agree with it, and that as citizens we can have an attitude towards it, which we should certainly contribute to what we have said, because justice does not recognise national borders, nor would we have the moral right to seek justice for our countrymen, if we are not prepared to give it to others around us. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5266	You'd like it if I never had the right to a replica, it might suit you the most. There's got to be another side here. You can tell who's estimating whether he's right or wrong. I would trust you, Mr. Jovanovic, if 146 or how many of them are there really respond to a retrial, which counts to be before the Djakovica Municipal Court, which is now sitting somewhere outside Kosovo and Metohija. I'd believe you if all those terrorists checked in on the day of the new trial and I'd go out for this pay phone and I'd say, "I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic." But since I fought against them, since I know them almost as well as you do, I guarantee you, they will neither appear nor expect you to appear. You let them go, you have arrangements. This is one composition, this is one train, and everybody in it is the so-called international community, and terrorists and the new DOS government. This is all synchronised. These are the actions that take place to break our country. Time will show if you let them go just because it was a condition to release our two soldiers and several civilians. Time will also show whether it's true that five terrorists were released before that, according to the list of terrorists. Time will show whether the Deputy Prime Minister, who calls all the terrorists south of Serbia, will answer, will call the disgruntled citizens of Serbia. I'd like it to stop the terror, to stop your, what you call, extremism. I'd like the rule of law to take over Serbia's leadership, but I don't believe that. You're arresting people in the streets, who are pretty stickers, you're arresting people of people who have licenses to carry guns just to take away those guns and those permits. And these are not -- in order of Serbian citizens, but -- selectively, exclusively the security of the Serbian Radical Party, exclusively members of the Serbian Radical Party. It comes to my head as something that makes me doubt. You, Mr. Jovanovic, should have heard the remarks about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Zivanovic. You're being followed here in the Assembly by a security guard who's coming into the building with you and coming to the entrance to this room. It is not possible for you to expect that someone will attack you in the building of the National Assembly itself. (The President - Time) I don't know if it's DOS. I guarantee you no one from the Serbian Radical Party will attack you. But you're introducing a manner that has never existed in this National Assembly before. That individuals come in with security to the very hall where the sessions are held. Then he says a lot more about the new government. Then it says there's no democracy. And here I am, Mr. Jovanovic, before... On February 20th, you made an accident, you and your security detail, where five cars were killed, on a payment ramp in Shid. The damage is 70,000 marks, Mr. Jovanovic. You're the one who caused the incident. You flew into a column at the ramp. (The President - please finish, the fourth minute is for replication. Here, I'm done. Don't ask your Mr. Jovanovic to talk about anything more, especially you, Mr. President. As far as the previous government is concerned, which there is no evidence, the easiest thing to say is that you destroyed the state. And I'm proving to you that here you are destroying the state day and day. And what are you destroying if we've already destroyed everything before? Turn a little bit to what's on the agenda. You challenge replicas to convince Serbian citizens that we do not care about the agenda. We care about the agenda and how much we care, but we care that this law is passed later on, so that Serbia's citizens will have a bad time later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5267	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 134, a abstentioned one, not voting four, a total of 178 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, in which I propose to increase the minimum profit amount from 35% to 50% in Section 2. The first reason lies in the very position of this third member of the Law that you propose and say - the minimum wage is paid by the employer to ensure the material and social security of employees. I think it's the shortest and most effective explanation, that minimum earnings should serve as an employee to meet his basic needs and family. You put it on, but did you put it just for the sake of order or really want social justice to be served in this case. Why increase from 35% to 50%? First of all, a certain doubt can also create your argument that the average is 40% of the average in Serbia, and here you suggest that there be 35% of the average profit in the economy of the Republic. What I'm motivated to suggest is that the 15% increase lies in the next -- the fact is that with the net going to gross, the fact is that the gross earnings go into all the other additions that haven't been treated as net earnings so far, there's thinking of regression, warm meals, travel expenses and all the other fees that the employees have received. As you say that the total tax policy you are now implementing in Serbia will suffer new and new ones, root changes, other than those they are, you said that fiscal redundancies will be less than those that are in the future. And if we take this to what it's going to be, then the gross profit is going to be less and less because of everything it is. And what are we going to get? We will come to the fact that many employers, many economic operators, and we know what the situation is in the economy, after deducting everything that the tax makes her do, after deducting everything that is contributed to pension and disability insurance, for health insurance, anything else can be treated as a profit, that she will not be able to pay for it. It's not a net profit anymore. That's gross profit now. The question is what conditions and what ambience, which you keep mentioning, if you didn't create it, the economy works and exists. In these conditions, the fact is that the rest of the income in that work organisation will be such that the newly created gross earnings, because you don't treat net earnings anymore, will be extremely small. In many businesses, the profits may be so high that businesses will be forced to pay minimum profits. If we know that this is a situation, if we know you didn't even create an environment for social justice, if we know all that, then that amount of 35% with a future gross profit that will slowly get closer to the old net profit, will be the miserable and miserable amount that the employee gets. In such a miserable and miserable amount, employees will not in any event be able to bring to their family such privileges as to ensure that this family and the biological survival and to meet all the essential needs of a citizen's life worth living. That motivated me to suggest these 50%. What's happening, and what you're slowly not going to admit, the price rise, the cost of living, the inflation that you're slowly installing through a variety of taxes, taxes, through taxes and haraks, will lead to the fact that maybe this 50% proposal won't be enough either. What's a fact is that companies, because of their insolvency, will more frequently be forced to pay minimum earnings in this manner than before, which again forces workers to meet their needs through the gray economy, which you're supposed to be fighting, or to turn into naked poverty, and since you seem to be the communists from... The eighth session in the new... Proleter, which makes it impossible for these same employees to provide simple reproduction and basic living conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5269	Anyone else want a word? You do not have the right to make an amendment (receives to a member of the Parliament who asks for a word). Power cannot be transmitted to the agenda. (Employer Vukic insists. ) In the course of the agenda, power cannot be transferred. As long as it's a part of the agenda, you can't transfer authority to anyone. Don't look at me and say I'm unfair to anyone, look at the Rules of Procedure, please. (Employee Vukic from the post: You have allowed this to other parliamentary groups, for example the SPS. When? (Employee Vukic from place: Branislav Ivković. Not during the agenda, Mr. Wolf. (Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word. I really have to answer here, even though you're reading what I'm about to read to you right now, but because it's such an objection that I'm very much affected personally. You actually want to find out all the time that I don't behave in accordance with basic democratic principles. Now, that, wave, you're not gonna prove it to me. I've been trying for ten years to handle it. You're one of the ones that's disturbed me and everyone else who's stood up for it, and I'm just going to read you what you know very well - Article 38(3). "in the course of the National Assembly session, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group at a certain point in the agenda, which the president of the parliamentary group has writtenly informed the president of the National Assembly, no later than the opening of the debate on that agenda." What is not clear here, Mr. Nikolic, and which right do I, as an MP, take away from you? Shame on you. Are you looking for a replica? (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Yes. You're looking for a replica of the Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Why do you mention me when you interpret the Rules of Procedure? So who am I going to mention, if not you, who pointed that out? I didn't give you my word, Mr. Nikolic. I didn't give you my word, because you have no right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the word. You came to me and I explained why you were wrong, in accordance with my obligations under the Rules of Procedure, to give you this explanation. Please get off the phone, I didn't give you my word. I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'm not giving a word at all, according to the Rules of Procedure, I beg your pardon, and you object to whoever you want. Do you want me to apply the Rules of Procedure? Have you spoken here for three minutes, I haven't given you my word at all, do you want to read what follows as a sanction for the conduct of the MP? What violation of the Rules of Procedure are you talking about, Mr. Nikolic? Well, I won't give you that pleasure, but you have to piss me off a little bit more, and then I will, but when I do, not when you want. So give them a minute, let them blow. Alexander Vukitch is looking for a word. ) There is a word from MP Alexander Vukic. According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly first cursed our mother, and now he insults us by saying that we should all, as you said, blow ourselves away? Well, I don't know what you're talking about, I don't even know what it means to you, to tell you the truth, but I'm going to read you something else that's written in the Rules of Procedure, because you can't leave a parliamentary group without its president, or without her representative. I will read to you, for you illiterate, exactly that you can take the book, open it and find where it is - Article 134 paragraph 2 is said to "debate in particular" (especially as this is the part which is specific and applies to this part of the debate, and therefore it is legally stronger, if you would compromise the legal importance of any part of this act) "is done by the members to whom the amendments are submitted and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions, and can participate": among others, (so it is stated) "the president", or representative of the parliamentary group. "Is that true? Are you going to tell us who's going to be a representative of the parliamentary group at all? If you do not give us the right to determine who is representative of the parliamentary group in particular, then tell us who it is, and tell us that any of us is 23, how many of us are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that this representative can come out and address the MPs when it comes to amendments. It's a fundamental difference and I ask you to try to express yourself in such a way that you don't insult us. I don't seem to have told you anything, except for those who are rude and very rude, never to you, nor to anyone else, inappropriate or offensive, or I don't know what he said or said, but I ask you also not to do it with the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, especially if you let us just be equal, just like everyone else and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5271	I can only tell you again, I can't argue that it says what you read, but it doesn't say that it has to participate. You had two representatives, the president of the parliamentary group and the deputy president of the parliamentary group at the beginning of this agenda. (Employee Vukic, from the post: We also have a deputy deputy. It is not the fault of the writer of the Rules of Procedure, nor of me as the speaker of the Assembly, which they, because of their conduct, by the decisions of the National Assembly, cannot participate in further work, in the way envisaged by the Rules of Procedure. Let's not lead the controversy, let's sit on a committee that you don't participate in, change the Rules of Procedure. That's what this is about. And as for the insult, I told Mr. Nikolic what this is about -- the worst insult you can tell me is not that vulgarity, lies, falseness and so on that you have referred to me, but rather the seemingly culturally stated remark that I treat the MPs of this room unfairly. A worse insult than that, you cannot direct me, for it is also the greatest falsehood you can give.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5272	I would just point out to you the fact that when you talk about it, Mr. President, you didn't make any insults, because I didn't curse your mother, nor did we say anything similar to what you said to the MPs. You'll never find me in such a state to get something like that out of my mouth or to be able to say something like that. As for this second part, you, Mr. President, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, in violation of that sublegal legal act, excluded Vojislav Seselj, took the right to the word of Tomislav Nikolic and now you say - it is their fault and therefore I no longer give you my word, to anyone from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You could have done it right away. Then we would no longer have the right to amendments, we have no right to even speak in the principle debate three times, because you can't understand that we have both the third and the fourth and the fifteenth members of our parliamentary group who can be our representative. It's our internal matter, not yours to decide. If we decide to be Zlatan Jovanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic will be. If it's Alexander Wolf, it'll be Alexander Wolfie, not you decide to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5273	I object, and this is the answer to your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But I will give you one suggestion, as well-intentioned to your MP group. The only id you can find without forcing me to break the Rules of Procedure, because it is quite clear, is to hold a session of the parliamentary group and inform me that someone else is president of the parliamentary group. I'm offering you a solution. That's the way out of your situation. Let anyone you want to be president and vice president of the parliamentary group. That's what you can do. Don't ask me to solve your problems against the Rules of Procedure. If you didn't think of it yourself, I'll tell you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Janjic. [[Laughter in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5274	Mr. Chairman, could you calm down the laughing MP group so they don't turn out to be a little... Do I have to show them a finger so they have a reason to laugh, tell them something funny? Take some steps, create conditions that I, as a worker of the National Assembly, constantly employed, consider labour law, can fight, among other things, and for my rights. Or, apply the Rules of Procedure. For every rude door they're here, up here, you've got security, on each of us four.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5275	Mr. Workers of the National Assembly, please move on to the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5276	Mr. Chairman, you can't ask the MPs to behave here as you please. The morning I turned on the TV in the room... Just laugh. [[Laughter in O.R.]] At the Faculty of Applied Arts, ten young people sit outside the door crying because Gašo Knezevic kicked them out of college. They have an orderly verdict to study there, and he says no matter what court. They still call their parents -- what kind of parents they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5277	Please begin, after two minutes, to talk about the amendment you called in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5278	These are all the problems that plague this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5279	Yes, but you can suggest these problems as a special item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5280	I guess your parents are workers and they pay for it. When ministers don't respect your court rulings to get your students back to college, you're both miserable by law and interpretation of the law. I thought I was the least educated here and the worst student, but when you gave Chaddy the rules, I could write a little better law than this, so Chad would interpret it. You'd only have three members and the session would take 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5281	Mr. Janjic, I warn you to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5282	I received a warning of knowledge. Mr. Chairman, in all today's newspapers... This all applies to workers, so you have no right to disturb me. [[Laughter in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5283	Mr. Janjic, no matter what you make all the MPs happy, I still have to remind you for the second time that you haven't even started talking about what the subject of the agenda is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5284	What's funny to you, the Serbian people are sad, and so am I. In all the newspapers today, you have announced that two or three parties, but reading, I did not have glasses, there may have been sects, I apologize in advance, will file criminal charges against workers of the Serbian Parliament, Slobodan Janjic, for spreading religious and racial hatred. Since I am accused, and this is an ordinary misinformation that has been denied here in 15 minutes, you have prepared the script in advance and on this basis excluded the president of the Serbian Radical Party who has not participated in anything. You've got a stenogram, and then you've haired it, so it didn't pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5285	Mr. Janjic, I already warned you twice. I will be forced to take your word. Please move to the agenda. (Glass from the O.R.: let him go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5286	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5287	Mr. Janjic, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5288	Will you calm this down? Of course, you stop this time until you create conditions. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Gentlemen, in article 6, amending Article 65, employees are entitled to minimum earnings under this law. What does that mean? An employee has a right? He's right, and who obliges him to do it? In my amendment, I suggested that it be said, "The employer is obliged to pay the employee a minimum wage." It's the only way to protect the worker. Gentlemen, don't arrest Serbian radicals because pretty stickers - DOS is the worst. Arrest all citizens now because under the stickers - whoever's guilty, it says - DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5289	Mr. Janjic, for six minutes, you've been making this assembly happy and embarrassing Parliament. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5290	Sir, I haven't run out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5291	I'm taking your word. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5292	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. President, have the same arches for all MPs. MPs in benches can react to the presentation of any MP in one way or another. You have the same criteria for all MPs. While SRS MP Janjic expressed or specifically explained the amendment, they threw him out of the DOS ranks. You kept warning the Messenger Janjic. Maybe it's funny to you, I don't want to get involved in it, of course, you have the right to react one way or another, but you're trying to at least take those criteria in the next period. Don't let what happened to you happen again the other day. You know very well, just to remind you, when a DOS MP from Nis insulted members of the Serbian Radical Party, who are not Serbian nationalities, Ceda Jovanovic came out and apologized and it ended. You had that scene day, to get Vojislav Seselj out of here, so this doesn't look like what happened the other day...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5293	Mr. Mircic, you've stayed in history, Mr. Mircic. We're talking about breaking the Rules of Procedure at today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5294	I still respect article 99. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5295	You will receive an answer, you have pointed out your objection, and I ask you to leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5296	One more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5297	There's nothing else, Mr. Mircic. You've pointed out your objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5298	An injured member of the 99th President is missing. That's Article 99, and this was Article 98.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5299	We'll decide that, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5300	In attitude 2, the Messengers of the people are obliged to address one another with respect. You sometimes lose sight of yourself as a people's messenger. You know, I understand your comments at the expense of the presentation of certain MPs, but make sure you respect them. Don't qualify someone in advance or qualify as a laughing clown. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. ) Everyone has the right to explain the amendment in their own way, and ultimately, it is the right of every MP to lobby the majority. Do you like it, if you're what you say you're an economics expert, so you know in advance that they won't accept most of it, it has nothing to do with this Rules of Procedure. Please tell you again, this looks like something that happened the other day. He just doesn't know who he is who he's going to run out, who he is, or what they call this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5301	For 48, against 102 abstentions, there were no, no 25 votes, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic to Article 6th. The government, the Labour Approval, the Boring and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 111, a abstentioned one, not voted 21, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, the second amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government, the Labour Approval, the Boring and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5302	I have submitted an amendment to the Bill's proposal, in Article 6 of Section 2, where it stands, that minimum earnings are paid at 35% in one part of the Republic's economy, and in the other part it says that the minimum earnings of Article 1 of this article are 40% of the average earnings in the Republic, I understood as a dilemma of the union minister that he can't determine what figure that figure, which percentage will be for the minimum wage of employees. I tried to help with this amendment, which reads that the minimum profit of Article 1 is 60% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published data of the Republic of Authority in charge of statistics affairs. What did I want with the team? I wanted first to point out that one difference is on average compared to the economy of the Republic, and another with respect to salaries throughout the Republic. With this, I would even and at least improve the difficult conditions of our employees. Since most workers will go to this very minimum profit, the cost of the profits, until his company is privatized and he gets this famous severance. Since this time period is going to be very low, I suggest that this member is 60%, because this will not damage the employer so much, but we will make a concession to workers who will most likely after a few minimum-timers - his company will go bankrupt, and he will also get severance and lose his job. Otherwise, I wanted more, if you would allow me, Mr. President, to say that Ceda Jovanovic cannot equalise the terrorist organisation that is being released with these Serbs who have been kidnapped and killed by these terrorists. They went out yesterday and were very well-dressed and very well-dressed and they looked very nice, Mr. Chad, which is proof that this country is a civilization state. But we don't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5303	Mr. Ambassador, please do not open new themes, but rather stick to the agenda theme. Why do you need to constantly disrupt the work of the congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5304	I'm not interrupting, I'm referring a question to Mr. Cedi Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5305	You have a special agenda item, and we're going to open a debate about it. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5306	I'm not talking about the parliamentary group, sir. I'm talking about the people's Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5307	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5308	President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs are not required to defend themselves against personal criticism. So, you can tell the truth about my education, you can name the alleged car accidents I've caused in cities I've never been to. You can tell lies about my security. You can't misread what I said about this speaker, when I tried to defend and believe, justice in this society. We're all the same before the law. Whether we are from Mitrovica, Peci, Pristina or Belgrade, because for us, both Pec and Pristina and Mitrovica and citizens of Albanian nationality from that part of our country are citizens of Serbia who enjoy all the Constitution-guaranteed rights. You cannot fill prisons in Serbia, innocents, innocents, in order to justify your impotence, to defend the state against those who really put it at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5309	Don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5310	Accidents and happiness do not recognise national boundaries. Although their families are happy today, we have opened at least a small door for tomorrow to cheer up some of the Serb families, who, for a year or a half or two, are missing, disappeared, among other things, and the victims of your failed policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5311	This was a replica to Mr Kragovic. (Tomislav Nikolic: He mentioned me and my discussion. He didn't speak to you at all, by name, by function, by party. He's denying you the Rules of Procedure, not me. [[Tomislav Nikolic: You cannot deny me a replica.]] That's what you have to explain to yourself. I don't give you my word. The Rules of Procedure give you their word. (Tomislav Nikolic: I was talking about a car accident caused by Cedomir Jovanovic. ) Read the Rules of Procedure. You know very well you have no right to replicate. When do you have the right to a replica? (Tomislav Nikolic: Article 96(1)) "If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressing himself about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and last name or function, that is to say, misread his presentation." Where were you mentioned? (Tomislav Nikolic: He misread my presentation, I don't have to be mentioned. You're interpreting that this applies to you? (Tomislav Nikolic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5312	Why don't you let me explain to you how I'm misread? On February 22nd, at 14.20 p.m. on the Shid-Belgrade highway in front of Gazela, the driver Cedomir Jovanovic drove an "audi" A-8 BG 471-649 ownership of Serbia's MUP. Unadjusted driving struck ahead of him the vehicle of the owner of Mladenovic "pezo" 405 foreign registration, German registration. Mladenovic's vehicle was hit in front of him by the owner of Parajin Luka's "pel" corsa. "Opel" corsa hit vehicle "flag" south-tempo. On the vehicle "aud" A-8, the property of Serbia's MUP, driven by Cedomir Jovanovic, ran into a 300-E Mercedes vehicle owned by Serbia's MUP, accompanied by Mr Jovanovic. The damage is 70,000 marks. Some of the participants complain of physical injuries. You didn't read me well, Mr. Jovanovic. This is a police report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5313	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5314	Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 105. "The measures put forward by the president of the National Assembly are applied as a search takes place on the agenda." I think Mr. Tommy Nikolic has been given a measure, and the agenda point is point 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5315	Mr. Nikolic, don't swear from the seat and throw the MP away. You were cursing, but Mr. Messenger is mistaken, for the messenger of the people to whom the word has been taken has the right to reply. There's no record of him being entitled to the Rules of Procedure, but I suppose he does. It wasn't established by the Rules of Procedure, but it's logical that it does. That doesn't change the fact that you've been cursing. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5316	I answered the amendment to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5317	You're wrong about the amendment. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5318	I can get the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure, and you'll see that I can do it by the Rules of Procedure. I really don't know why these ladies are as bloodthirsty as they say. I would never say that. They didn't look like that, but it's really amazing how they behave and what they get. It's amazing you can't tell them. I must tell you, Mr. President, that I understand your anger and pain over what you have cursed your mother to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I know that now you have to tell everyone else that they swear and when they don't, but let's keep it on you to explain, to the people and to the citizens and to all the MPs why you did it. There's something else I need to point out to you. There is no interpretation of the Rules of Procedure here, nor of any interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I had enough time after our last conversation to sit down and read all the business norms relating to representing the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have no right and no opportunity to take away the right of the parliamentary group to have a representative. You can't possibly be right. And to rule out three, four, there's a fifth, or there's a sixth that's going to appeal to that. It's about Article 134(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. One more thing, Mr. President, your predecessor at the presidency's post gave respect to the Rules of Procedure the right to allow and allow a representative of the Serbian Radical Party. I, according to that right, had obtained the right, which therefore accepted and understood your predecessor, chairing from this pay phone, had already spoken in the People's Custodial of the Republic of Serbia in the morning part of the session when you were not present. You can't remember and say, "Now I've been warned by someone from the parliamentary group and I'm no longer giving you the right to speak." You can't because whoever warned you about it didn't have any right, because you can't deny the possibility of our MP group having a representative, no matter what his name is. You can't erase us, you can't say we're gone. Maybe some people on the street can kill us, shoot us, you can arrest us all, but while we're in this assembly, you can't say that our parliamentary group doesn't exist and that it can't have a representative. Otherwise, there are neither sessions nor anything else, nor there are any equalitys, nor there are parliamentary groups, nor there are parliaments and congregations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5319	I'd like to put this to a vote, but please tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure it is. (Alexander Vukic: I said Article 134. paragraph 2.) What's broken? I'll read the article and what it says here. That is what the congregation will declare, and then we will never talk about it again. (Tomislav Nikolic: There is nothing to talk to you about. ) There will be no discussion at the assembly session when we discuss the Labour Law. We can talk at a board meeting that's written by the Rules of Procedure. We can talk anywhere else, but this isn't a conversation hall. This is a law-making hall, to consider the proposal of acts proposed by the MPs. Suggest amendments to the Rules of Procedure. It'll be put on the agenda. Don't look here on the spot for the writing of Rules of Procedure. You are asking me to give the Rules of Procedure the authority of the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic to replace me at the session when I am not in the O.R., that I give you my word. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5320	We have been discussing it for an hour and a half, and every time after each amendment, we return to the violation of Rule 102 of our Rules of Procedure, that is, its position 3. "The measure of confiscation does not apply to the right of the MP to a replica in the course of the session." So, the only one who's been taken from is the MP who can speak, that's to answer for the line. He can't break the Rules of Procedure, he can't discuss it by amendment. As for Article 38, which is also being broken all the time, and this Rules of Procedure has also arranged for these members to be their members during the session. This session should look like something. That's why these solutions are foreseen. When word is taken from the president of the parliamentary group, he is replaced by the vice president or vice president. If taken away from him, he had the opportunity to report his deputy before the start of the agenda. However, who will take care of the conduct in the Assembly and its parliamentary groups, if not the president. That's why you take away his word. When he gets... Before taking away the words of the president, the vice president or deputy parliamentary group and before misbehaving, he should take care of it, of his behaviour, and of his deputy. We can't worry about whether they're represented by a parliamentary group. They are obliged to worry about it on their own and make sure that the course of the session is at least decent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5321	I'm not giving you my word on the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5322	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work today's session. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs before moving to the agenda to determine the quorum. I find that the electronic counting system shows we don't have a quorum. I suggest that the Assembly Department, by counting the MPs, determine if we have a quorum. It takes the count of the Messengers of the people. ) I find that counting the MPs by the Assembly in the hall is 120 MPs present. That means we don't have a quorum. (Glasses -- here, there's 122, count again, let's wait. A number of MPs enters the O.R. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I myself expressed my doubts about the electronic counting system that showed that we lack two or three MPs to have a quorum, and by asking for another solution and by counting the MPs by the Office of the Assembly, we have found that we do not have a quorum in the hall. That's why I'm asking you to give us another break of 10 minutes, after which we'll continue to work. [[After break - 18,20]] I ask the MPs to take their seats. Before we move to the agenda, please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I understand we have a quorum to work with. Before we started this exhausting parliamentary debate, we treated the amendment to Article 6(2), which was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The applicant for the amendment spoke about the amendment. Any of the other authorised representatives in the debate come forward for a word? He's not answering. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 6, against 117, there were no abstentions, no 11 votes, a total of 134 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On Article 6th, the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 119, there were no abstentions, no 9 votes, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On Article 6(2), the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Does any of the other authorised representatives appear in the debate? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 125, there were no abstentions, no five votes, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5324	First, I would ask the chairman if we really knew the status of representative of the Serbian Radical Party, is he able to come out, respond to the amendments, or is he not? Because, after all, the chairman, you are not in office at all. I understand the President of the Assembly, who is not a lawyer by profession, is an engineer, but because of this there are vice-presidents of the Assembly, who really need to coordinate work and know, not that one vice-president of the Assembly allows the word to Alexander Vukic, then Mr. Marsican comes and says - no longer has the right to discuss this point of the agenda. Since I see that a compromise solution has obviously been found to leave Parliament and to do some other work, I would now ask you to say whether we have a representative, as we have officially delivered to you, means that we have provided documentation that Aleksandar Vukic has the right to speak, because, since when there has been a parliamentary assembly, these 10 years, it has never happened that both the head of the parliamentary group and the deputy parliamentary group, they have no right to discuss at all in Parliament. So I'd like to ask you first, and then let's talk about the amendment afterwards, if the answer is positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5325	Mr Cvetanovic, of course I will answer your question, although I warn you that you have not called for a discussion in the Rules of Procedure, you are not opening a business debate, but have come forward as an amendment promoter, but once you have opened that question, I will answer that question. So, Mr. Vukic, whom I think I have personally tried to express my opinion of this position, called for the provision of Article 134. The Rules of Procedure, which indeed states that a parliamentary group may, in addition to the heads of the group and deputies, have representatives. It is not a question for me, but the status of representatives is obtained under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr Nikolic has given one power of attorney, which is only about the situation where Mr Nikolic is not in the O.R., and this was written by Mr Nikolic himself. By the way, Mr. Vukic would be disabled to exercise those powers. But it's not the only problem. The problem is that Mr. Vukic, in any case, would, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, that the power of attorney was handed over to the presidency before the debate opened. Mr. Nikolic, no one knew anyone was going to push you out, but you've been carrying the consequences yourself. I think I gave the answer. For every other position, ask colleague Micic, who is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5326	How can you say that someone from the Serbian Radical Party can be disabled because it should represent the party?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5327	Please return to the topic. I won't count on you this time, but please continue on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5328	Perhaps from my point of view I can propose amendments, and the head of the parliamentary group, or the deputy, or whatever you want, the representative of the parliamentary group, has the opportunity to supplement me, that maybe he says the amendment isn't quality. So you don't allow a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group to have the same conditions as other parliamentary groups at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5329	The only thing I can say is to ask you again to move on to the amendment. If I chair the assembly, then Mr. Jovanovic and his deputy happen to be taken away from them, and the power of power that this one, handed over to the presidency, will not be the same, nor will the DOS have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5330	I'm sure that's the case, but I'm not sure you're the one who's going to be the chairman all the time. This is a game of the case, only that those who cooked all this have withdrawn from the National Assembly, and you are currently running the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5331	Once again, I ask you, Mr. Cvetanovic, to explain to us the amendment, which is why you went to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5332	When you provide us with equal work, I will be happy to explain the amendment. I don't know if you're a representative of the government, who are you communicating with?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5333	Mr. Cvetanović, I once again ask you to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5334	Will you allow us to be equal with all other parliamentary groups, we will do indeed, no problem, but only at the moment when we have a representative of our parliamentary group, what all parties really need to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5335	Mr. Cvetanovic, I warn you that there is no time at your disposal and that I have promised you that I will tolerate two minutes of speech on the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to ask you one more time to explain the amendment you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5336	It's not hard for me at all, please. Please allow Aleksandar Vukic to be a representative of the Serbian Radical Party and we will be happy to move on to do what we should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5337	I cannot allow anyone, who is sitting in this assembly, to not represent the Serbian Radical Party, nor the DOS representative, nor the Serb Unity Party, nor the Socialist Party of Serbia, to speak contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5338	You have a request on your desk and this request gives the authority to Alexander Vukic to represent us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5339	Time, Mr. Cvetanovic. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5340	I thank you for your efforts, but I'm telling you, the moment you make it possible to work, we can work. We can't do this. What do you think you have is the power to make it impossible for only the Serbian Radical Party to have a representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5341	Mr. Cvetanović, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You'll force me to give you a warning. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5342	Do I violate the Rules of Procedure, okay, but you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, because just because not every one of us can be competent for all matters, we have the right to have a representative who is competent to talk about it and represent our party for every law. At this point, we have estimated that Aleksandar Vukic is the most competent of all of us to represent the interests of citizens from the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5343	I give you a warning, Mr. Cvetanovic. Mr. Cvetanović, I'm really asking you to leave the pay phone. You're making me do something I really don't want to do. I've given you a warning about a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you're putting me in a position to tell you one more right after that, because you're abusing the National Assembly's pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5344	Feel free to do what you feel is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-26-0.u5345	I remind you twice, Mr. Cvetanovic. Once again, I ask you to leave the pay phone. Mr. Cvetanović, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. You've had enough time to do that. What you didn't want to do yourself, it's a matter of your decision and I have no right to interfere. It seems to me that I've been tolerable, and it seems to me that I've given you the opportunity to speak in the Rules of Procedure, even though you haven't called on him. You forced me to give you two warnings and take away your word. Please leave the pay phone. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: We are asking that our parliamentary group have a representative. ) Mr Cvetanović, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure for no reason whatsoever. You put me in a position to give you two notices and take away my word. You're gonna make me interrupt the session. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: We are not equal. Mr. Nikolic, you are not equal because you chose it yourself. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[Resume session after break - 18.45]] We're continuing our work. Please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The assembly is continuing its work. Mr. Cvetanović, please leave the pay phone. Mr. Cvetanović, I warn you that he is a member of 103. Rules of Procedure provided for sanctions for your conduct. I regret to say that you're forcing me to take that measure and suggest it. I warn you that in several different ways you have violated the provisions of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, and even though I took away your word, you stand by the pay phone and refuse to move away on my request. I am currently chairing the Assembly. So, for the last time, I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. (Employer Cvetanovic still stands behind the pay phone. I regret to suggest to the National Assembly that I place a measure of distance from the session to the MP Goran Cvetanovic. I'm putting a motion to vote. I agree that it voted in favour of the proposal, that Mr. Goran Cvetanovic's MP was given a distance from the session, 120, against four, the abstentions were not voted 19, a total of 143 MPs were present. I find that most of the votes the National Assembly adopted the proposal and (of distance) made a decision on the distance of MP Goran Cvetanovic from the session. (Employer Cvetanovic came down from the pay phone and returned to the parliamentary bench. ) Mr. Cvetanović, I am really trying in every way to understand your behavior and once again I ask you to do what the National Assembly has said. So, not my smallness, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe you're capable of respecting that. Please leave the session. I'm sorry you don't understand me. In this situation, I'm forced to interrupt the National Assembly session. (Employer Gordana Pop - Lazic asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. We'll work... You'll get the word, ma'am, you'll get the word. I suppose the MPs are also interested in continuing the work of this assembly, since the holiday is tomorrow, and after that is the first day of the festival, we will continue our work on May 3rd at 10.00 p.m. on Thursday.
