ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5759	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the matter is very clear. A harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure is the consequences of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group being left without its president who has no right to participate in the session by the end of the session. I believe that very quickly, not thinking very much, you have made a decision that is precedentd in the history of parliamentaryism, a decision that deserves to be reconsidered on your part in this matter, so that you can make one more statement about whether the decision to exclude Vojislav Seselj, on the proposal of one MP from the hall, has been broken by the Rules of Procedure or not. Mr. President, you were right to report this request to the National Assembly. I have nothing more to add, you've got everything in writing. You were all witnesses that the Rules of Procedure had been violated. To prevent this from happening to anyone in the future, without warning, without a proposal from the President of the Assembly, someone will be expelled from the National Assembly session, please just reconsider the decision of the National Assembly. We've already done that in the election of judges. So, today, by voting on whether you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you will reconsider the decision you have made and which has not been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5760	I am putting the motion to vote, i.e. the request of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to establish that a violation of Rules 100 of Rule 3 and 103 of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has occurred when speaking from the session of the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's Messengers to make this known. For 52, against 108, the abstention of three, did not vote 7, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly found that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in the adoption of the exclusion measure of the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group from the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2001. We move to item 14 of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Pensions and INVALID Security (in principle). The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić has the word, and after him, the National Messenger Hranisav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5761	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have seen, DOS's majority can do anything. He can say today it's Sunday, it's night. And also for the law that's on the agenda, which is the law on pension and disability insurance, you say it's good, and we say it's not. Opposition MPs, and above all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, presenting here everything that we have seen is wrong, are proposing to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS majority to change their minds, to bring good laws and good laws to the Assembly. But it seems that you don't want it to go right and you always want it to be as bad and worse. May God be of help to you. What does the pension and disability insurance law say? It's nothing new, it's all old, and so far proposed laws, the legal projects of the DOS government that are confusing and scrawny. It's just these patches that talk about experts sitting in government. When Serbian Radical Party MPs are pressured by reasoned facts and prove that the changes are not good, then the justifications are sought in some European standards, in laws that should lead us to Europe, etc. I don't think this applause you've just heard has interfered with Serbian Radical Party MPs, but has given support to the new DOS sexual affair. (A voice from the O.R.: You've been through this a long time. ) Since you have a female network, you can try what you have stated. Mr. President of the Assembly, you didn't have an electronic scaler yesterday, and today the brains of the majority of the brain don't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5762	Gentlemen, please continue your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5763	Please let me talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5764	Please don't throw it away, and you can move on to the amendment, so let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5765	It's not about the amendment, it's about the law in principle, and most people don't even know what this is about. New laws are being promised. When something doesn't seem to be right here, that's supposed to scream at the proposed legal changes, then it's said that the new laws are being prepared, and here they're about to arrive, but they're prepared, and when they arrive, it can be illustrated by the people -- when the tail heals. It is similar with this law on pension and disability insurance, which defends Minister Mrs Matkovic. Minister Matkovic says there's nothing to say about this law and it's really a little said on her part. However, Serbian Radical Party MPs have already been told enough, and I will only try to say part of what I consider to be most important in amending this law. The minister says the law stems from a change in tax regulations and an affirmation of gross earnings as a unique basis for the calculation and payment of taxes. As a result, adjustments must be made to the contribution and social security obligations, thus providing funding for pension and disability insurance funds. We can agree that all the laws that were previously passed were good, that they were not such incentives that the economy can endure, that the economy has such potentials, we could agree that this base would correspond to one developed European and economically strong country. Here, almost condescendingly, Minister Matkovic, justifying himself by passing labour law, justified changes in the basis on which the employer is obliged to pay the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and there is a fundamental change, and that is a bad one. It was probably the telegraph presentation of Mrs. Minister because she herself is aware that the economy will not bear this burden imposed by this law. Material security for pensioners and people with disabilities is becoming even more difficult by this law. Amendments and additions to this law also bring to an unequal position of a particular category of users because of the lack of compliance between the Republic and the federal law, and a question can also be raised under which law will exercise its rights and obligations for workers working in federal authorities and being on the budget of the Republic. Or maybe you're making something here as followers of Mesic's politics, so you've already written off Yugoslavia. So, the economics have brought me into difficulties, which NATO bombed, which has been the DOS crisis headquarters since October 5th, of course, with earlier failures and sanctions. It is true that the economy does not have such strong shoulders to bear such burdens that all these laws, including this law on pension and disability insurance, impose on employers. The DOS government should know that. If it is not understood by students and ministers, poor students, ministers catapulted from Liliputia, then at least I hope that the charming Minister of Pension and Disabilities should accept the suggestions of opposition MPs and withdraw the bill from the procedure, not only for the sake of a people's saying - who you are with, but also for practical reasons. For reasons that the Fund of Pension and Disabilities Insurance with such high bases will not be filled without the economy experiencing complete destruction. The law stipulates that the employer is obliged to pay contributions to the state, even if he is unable to pay wages to workers. This will achieve a negative trend in production, workers will remain not only without pay, but also without a job. This will cause a huge number of workers to become social cases. Maybe a few months and they'll be able to supplement the funds, and when the production stops, there won't be any factories, but no funds, of course, no pensions. This kind of non-domestic business is similar to the story of a host who set the house on fire by chasing a mouse. So it would be much better to focus this base that corresponds to the real potential of the economy and, of course, to keep the DOS promise on the direction (as it was in the pre-election campaign) of strengthening the economy and production and, of course, to keep the promises made to the pensioners, but from real sources, until you create real resources from those donors you promised in the pre-election campaign, from those six billion dinars. Six billion dollars, excuse the lapus. You see how these DOS people help me, because they certainly expect help and dream of it, so they can't make a mistake like me. If you're not able to pay your pensions from real sources, and of course you can't now...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5766	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5767	Just for a little while, since I was distracted by those who got ovations from this affair. Then you must openly tell the workers, the people that the Americans have lied to you, so you too have to lie to the people and - be patient, wait. How long do we wait and live off those promises? The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act you propose is not even constitutional, nor is it compatible with the federal law, and yet many other laws have been passed, and not only have they not been constitutional, but they have not been human. With this law you want to show, for God's sake, care for the pensioners by creating funds on paper, and I suppose you're aware that by looking at the money of the budget and the economy, you can only see the mirage. With this law, you want to buy time, you're right, to welcome the promised donations, and by that time, "Death marvo, until the grass grows." This law is a hell of a plan for the adoption of new laws, which is intended to sell unsuspected economic and natural resources to non-priced strategic partners. That is why you have delayed privatisation until you have prepared the law field, which is why you are harassing and taking away Serbian property and the Serb soul you are tearing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5768	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, followed by the MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5769	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on pension and disability insurance is on the agenda, the law that is most important for all citizens in Serbia, as this law will depend on what pensions the current workers and farmers will have when they get a condition for going to a well-deserved pension. The additions and amendments to the law are very short, the predecessors have made everything that is not good in the proposed law, so I will try not to repeat the predecessors, if possible. This law, like all previous ones, provides that the company must first pay pension and disability insurance, based on a given basis, and for workers if there are and how many. Why does the state not have the solidarity to take risks with workers, and to make a profit split, a pay worker, and a country for contributions and in that part to find a mechanism where both funds and states would be satisfied, as well as a worker. I believe that such contributions will be lost by someone, i.e. He'll be unhappy. In translation, the worker has to work to fill the pension fund and the state register, regardless of what he will receive, and he will receive a small salary and wait for a promised pension that many do not experience to receive. In this law, as with others, it goes in reverse order, because what is the situation in the economy, we will find it difficult to apply tax laws in practice. First, should we have done everything possible to help us put the economy on healthy feet, increase production and export and create conditions and an environment for tax and contribution, as we propose in the law? Secondly, whether there is definitely none of the promised help on the side, which was promised to the citizens when the elections were held. Thirdly, have we definitely given up the damage to the companies done to us by NATO states and which, by all international rights, are obliged to make up for it? Fourthly, since we cannot realise any aid, have we decided to put all the burden on the back of Serbian citizens through increased pay for all taxes, taxes and contributions? You, as legislators, had to take a good look at it from all sides, because I believe that this law would do the most damage to workers who would lose their jobs because of the basis for calculating their contributions. In the last few years, about 200 or 300 thousand small private companies have been formed and it is enough for each of them to fire just one worker, which is the price we have to pay, and on this basis we get 200 thousand unemployed, 200 thousand workers who would lose their jobs because of a high foundation. Furthermore, no one will continue to hire workers under these conditions, so we'll get more unemployed. The worst will be those with high gear, because the employer will not decide for them, precisely because of paying taxes on these basiss that are given in law. Several amendments were made when the law was changed, and then the government prescribed law enforcement, where many things are not seen now, but when a solution is obtained. I'll give you just one example, we passed the company's profit tax law. For the last year who made the profit, he got the solution to pay the profit tax and that's fine. The companies that made the profit, they got it, and I got it in my company, and it was paid. Then, we get a second solution, there's a profit tax fee for this year, which you also have to pay, whether you're doing business with a profit or a loss this year. What does that mean? That means that we, in advance, divided into 12 months, have to pay the profits, the advances this year, and whether we're doing business with profit or loss, that doesn't matter at all. So you're paying for something that's unknown at the end of the year. Did it have to be like this? Maybe this is why someone at the end of the year is showing a loss, and without this, they could be winning. What does that mean? It means that at the beginning when you pay all the taxes, you pay the profits for last year, you pay the fee, you win for this year, even though you don't know if you're gonna make it. You probably won't have the money for business and everything, and eventually you can probably prove from a positive, negative state. I am afraid that many companies will not be able to pay all taxes, and that this year we will apply the most member standing in each law: "If the employer does not pay taxes and contributions for the previous month, the inspector will make a solution to the ban until 90 days". We are afraid that in this year, there will be no more such solutions, that many businesses will be shut down, and many workers will lose their jobs. And finally, just to remind you, today is May 9th, the Day of Victory over Fascism, and I am taking the opportunity to honor all victims of fascist terror on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5770	Third time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one in a series of laws that came out of that terrible budget law, and this is one in a series of laws that won't produce the consequences that are envisaged, or you may have produced them, or the consequences I'm going to point out, but you didn't mention them in the explanation. You tried to cover up a lot of negative things in the light of the law that this law causes. The bill's proposal had little to do with reality and did not bother to check back several years what it looked like, what the situation in Serbia's economy was, in which ways the government of the Republic of Serbia had to resort to provide such payments to an Infalid and Pension Insurance Fund. If the promoter had made an effort, he would not have prescribed the basics of the Employment Act, because it is absolutely impossible for the employer to meet. You see, so far they've been the basis of the net profit; when we translate it into gross, we'd get some other basics, but for me it was... 470 dinars for expertise acquired with a doctorate of 2,300 new dinars. We were constantly exposed to the demands of employers, trade unions, chambers of commerce, which represented certain employers, certain groups of employers, to reduce such foundations. The government had the right to do so under Article 149 of the Law, up to 50%. You know, it's nice to write that a textile factory will have to pay for the lowest labour price based on several thousand dinars. But that textile factory won't be able to, it won't have anywhere to pay you for those contributions. It is nice to write in an explanation that in this way, the legislator wants all receipts of the employee to enter his pension base, to have a higher pension, but you avoid saying that it has been a legal obligation so far, because Article 157 of Article 2 of the Fund was intended to make contributions for pension and disability insurance to all staff, so this famous warm meal and regress and all other personal incomes are being paid. I must warn you, because I witnessed that people who run large factories, who care about thousands of people, come and provide us with information that the salaries in their factories are below 50% of the average earnings in the Republic and that they can no longer create. The Earth was under a great block back then. Our textile industry is focused on "break" jobs, on finishing, on making patterns, even with the end delivered by a foreign partner. When it stopped, and now it's still standing, then they had nothing left to do. And who in Serbia will buy a new coat or a new suit every year, so that textile factories, which have export capacities and a lot of outdated technology, can work so well to pay off profits and provide what the state requires of them. Where good luck all employers can pay off such basics as you predict and taxes, and contributions, and contributions to disability and pension insurance. We were forced to provide for it by law and to provide for almost all employers because the economy came before bankruptcy. You now predict that bankruptcy, plan, and you will behave rigorously. The tax authority will be obliged to determine whether the salary has been paid and whether the contributions have been paid. If the salary is not paid, there are no sanctions, there are no penalties, and you won't make a record of it, but if no contributions are paid, the fines begin. So you forget one very big obligation, that people in this country work and get paid. As one authority that has received these proposals from the EU, you are not interested in it at all. You're only interested in the other part -- not only did he pay his contributions, shut down his shop for up to 90 days, shut down the companies for up to 90 days, and then in those 90 days, he'll earn, not only for those contributions he owed, but also for the salaries for those three months and for the contributions for those three months. The one who doesn't work -- how-- to sell or not to open up anymore, not to take the lock off that factory? I don't know why, I don't know how, I don't know what the motive is, except that the motives aren't honorable, except that the motives are someone else's and that we're just doing it. How do we interpret the argument that there is an increase in the base, so I guess it is clear to all, that there is a drastic increase in the basis of the contribution for pension and disability insurance, and then the legislator tells us - there will be a reduction in the current rate of contributions for pension and disability insurance. When? What is not foreseen by the bill can only be promises in the reasoning of the law, but the reduction of the rate is done by law, not by promise. It even envisions such a huge reduction in the rate that the fund's revenues will be reduced, so the fund will even have to settle from the budget. These are stories for little children. First you increase our basics, and then you say -- we're going to cut our rates so much that there's going to be even less income in the fund, so we're going to be out of the budget. So why are you increasing the basics? Why increase the basics if it does not bring the necessary revenue to the Trust Fund for Disability, Pension and Social Insurance? I don't know why the bill promoter does what can't work out. The fact that you, for God's sake, are worried that when he retires, he's going to have all the contributions he's made to all the receipts he's made during his work, they're just stories. You don't care if he gets paid next month, you don't find that interesting. Making the law justify the great, high goal that when he turns 35 - 40 years old, the internship has in these paid contributions everything he received while working, and whether he will receive his salary next month, this law does not regulate it at all. He doesn't say this law what happens if people stop getting paid, what happens if they stop paying contributions? We'll close down the company by 90 days, what's 91 days, what's it gonna be, ma'am, on the 91st day, if he can't make peace in 120 days? For those 30 he owed and for those 90 that were created in the meantime? What does the law say, will it extend to another three months, will it extend to another six months, if the employer goes into bankruptcy? How many companies will go bankrupt within four months, from the day this law enters into force, and who is in the interest of the companies going bankrupt? The Privatisation Act - why don't you deliver this Privatisation Act to us once? You're already affirming it in many means of information. You're already talking about the provisions, and we, the MPs, haven't seen that bill at all. If we had that bill, maybe we could even argue even more against the adoption of these laws. This is what we're suggesting, and we're just talking about our hunches, we're convinced that you're doing this all because of the privatisation that's being prepared for the fall, because of the privatisation of companies that are certainly capable of privatization. You won't be interested in companies that no one will be interested in. What you're talking about in the means of public information - cements, electricity. Well, it's easy to find buyers, there were lobbys in the government of the Republic of Serbia who, for a percentage, brought various buyers into cement stores. And what about the Car Factory in Kralje, Magnochrom, October 14th, what about the Kragujevac car factory? What about Sartida, the Gossa, what about the great giants (who neither you nor we created), were created by our fathers) in which tens of thousands of employees work. What if no one wants them? The easiest thing to do is to throw me out of the O.R. and tell them to go bankrupt. I don't think that's the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5772	Here you go. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5773	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the debate and this bill have turned into a contradiction. The debate should not be a debate on the Privatisation Act. We can talk, I often say that, about assumptions, about what today's government and the parliamentary majority will do in parliament, and we can talk about what you, as today's opposition and the previous government, have done. Rest assured, no one from the government will compensate the companies for their outstanding contribution by taking their apartment and saying, "Never mind, we forgot the debt." Be safe. So much for facts. The practical basis is our endeavor to provide workers with elementary security. It's only increased by what's changed by what we've introduced into the economic environment for workers earning his salary. Nothing more and nothing less, because they're also a regress, and a warm meal, a fee for field work -- his profits. And he has the right to have that kind of profit, and certainly we are not the Government who will treat him the way governments have treated him over the last 10 years. The unemployed are 730,000, 770,000 fictitious employees, 1,600,000 pensioners, 800,000 refugees, 2,100,000 formal employees -- that's the situation we found in this society and that's what we're trying to solve today. There is no room for that kind of political criticism that we are facing in the debate on this law. What is the subject of this criticism - the basis? The base has been changed and it is not 470 dinars, the net base, but 1,700. It was 470 dinars in 1998 and we changed it because it was humiliatingly small, miserable. It was an insult to the workers. It was the ministry that came out with this bill that did -- from 470 dinars to 1,700. We only increase those 1,700 for this gross principle by 1,400 dinars, which represents a collection of both regressions and a warm meal, a fee for field work. It's facts and nothing else. Don't talk about the privatisation law, because when we talk about the privatisation law again, we can only talk about it on the basis of arguments, and these arguments don't go in favour of those who are criticising us as power today. They don't go because this country hasn't done anything about solving a number of problems that have arisen as a result of a partial transformation of ownership, and they certainly don't contribute to us trying to solve this difficult situation without serious social earthquakes. For in social unrest, no one can be satisfied, nor can those who can build their political future in such a relationship. So, back to the debate on the draft law on the agenda, let's talk about arguments, let's not talk about assumptions because the privatisation law today is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5774	Did we agree 15 days ago that there was no replica to the mention of the former government and the current government? It wasn't. [[In the meantime, MP Tomislav Nikolic is looking for a replica.]] We agreed that the -- the former regime, the current regime, the former government, the current government -- there is no replica. Here, and the second part of the former government comes in. And where are we going to put the dot, just to get someone from JUL to show up and then we're... [[Comments from the hall are not heard]] The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5775	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reviewed this bill with people who are strictly bound by this law. So, with experts working at the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund in the city I come from, in Smederevo, and with them I prepared what I'm about to tell you. The current situation in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund is primarily a constant lack of money that must be compensated by the budget, and the ratio of active insurance and pensioners who are one to one. Analysing the bill could conclude that this is one of the first measures for trying to reform the system, which means breaking up with the old state, or bringing the Fund to a state that it can function without loss, based on the collection of contributions, and at the same time implies in the further phase of the privatisation and market restructuring process of the economy. The proposed changes introduce a more financial discipline regime for the employer. And according to the current law, as Mr Nikolic said, according to pension insurance, the employer was obliged to pay contributions to other personal incomes, but it did not enter the pension base. The current employee had a personal income payment, a warm meal, a regression, so he believed that it was a profit that entered his retirement base. However, dissatisfaction was created at the end of the working century when the obvious disagreement of the payroll and the calculation of the pension base was apparent. The accounting system could thus be used for various types of employer malversions. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund has the power to control and collect contributions, but the controls mainly concerned other personal incomes that did not enter the pension base. The amendment of Article 125(6) has well-regulated that the employer is obliged to pay the contribution on the lowest basis. It's a provision that protects workers, because, regardless of their payout, they'll be paid a contribution, so they won't have any problem achieving their pension rights. By applying this article, everyone will have a minimum pension base, which contributes to the thinking of compulsory and voluntary pension insurance in some future times. Article 10(4) provides for the possibility of prohibiting the exercise of activity for a period of 30 to 90 days to an employer who does not act on the orders of the competent authority, in accordance with this law. It is true that employers will have problems because of this provision, but they should know that the problems will only be for companies that do not have positive business results, since we must make sure that we need healthy companies that have a perspective in the future, not fictitious businesses without a future. Article 11, Article 149a is deleted, thus repealing provisions which have been laid down by the government so far as reduced bases which did not give the expected results in the economy, since a large number of enterprises did not even take advantage of the possibility to pay their profits and to pay contributions on a reduced basis due to poor business, and neither the Fund nor the insurance companies were able to exercise their rights either in health or pension insurance. It's simple, like all the other laws we've passed so far and that we're going to bring into the future, this law, of course, isn't perfect, but we don't live in some perfect society. We know what we inherited from the previous government, and that's why this law is good because one step ahead, one step towards the changes we promised voters, and that's why we won the elections, and of course the voters expect us to do something like this because they chose us for it. In addition, the current opposition would not have lost the election if everything had been right in previous laws of pension and disability insurance and in all other laws. It is clear to us why the opposition gentlemen are fighting the application, i.e. The adoption of a law like this, but that's, of course, their thing. We do not need much to eat for this, but we should simply adopt this proposal on amendments and additions to this law and I will vote for this bill, as well as all other DSS MPs in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5776	The word is made by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5777	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is another law that is in line with so-called "the Retirement and Disabilities Act". The gross principle. The reasons against the introduction of gross principles have already been a great deal of talk. This was also discussed at previous sessions when some other laws were passed. I don't want to talk about it, but I'm only going to stick to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Article 2 paragraph 1 states that the basis on which the contribution is calculated and paid for insurance workers makes a profit, in accordance with the law, or collective agreement, on the basis of which the pension base is established. The proposed law lays down a minimum basis at which contributions are paid at the rate set by the Fund. There's nowhere to be determined in the law what that rate is. If you look at, in Article 2 of the Law, how much amounts are defined as the basis for payment of PIO, you will see, according to the current state of our economy, that the foundations are inappropriately high. For example, for jobs that require a master’s degree of expertise or specialization based on college or higher education, which is the seventh degree, where I belong, the basis for payment of PIO is 10,510 dinars. Currently, my receipts amount to 7,400 dinars, and when 14% of taxes are added with a warm meal and regress, this is 9,836 dinars, and the proposer has set a figure of 10,510 dinars. Therefore, we believe that the basics are inappropriately high, and when it is added that the employer must necessarily pay the fund a salary contribution, if there is, it clearly says that employees are placed in an unfavourable position rather than before. It is a more unfavourable position, because such high bases are a great burden only to an employer who will hardly be able to pay contributions to the fund, and if he pays them to earn employees he will remain little or no, in these conditions when our economy works very badly. When we add taxes to the profit fund, where they include wages, a warm meal, a regression -- they'll see how many citizens they'll have left in their pocket. The second serious objection concerns criminal provisions in Article 10 of this Act. These criminal provisions, which the predecessors also spoke of, in our opinion, very rigorous and can make the economy even more reversible anyway. So, the predecessor, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said what would happen if the facility didn't have enough money to pay for the contributions, didn't have enough money to pay for the salaries -- it would stop working for three months, and after three months, what would happen in those three months so that the company could even start working. With these and other legal solutions, the government's intentions are obvious. First, to get employers to fire extra workers and others, to have companies that are otherwise difficult to deal with eventually stop working. What happens to such a legal solution is not in the interest of employers, and especially not employees. For these reasons, I will repeat what has already been heard of this speaker several times, which is that the first thing to do is to restore the economy that we have, and only then to pass laws and regulations that will improve the economy and allow these legal proposals to be applied with ease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5778	The word is given by MP Branislav Blazic, and then by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we've heard that these amendments and additions to the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance are actually all the same, just a little different. It's a little different, because it introduces a new principle, meaning a unique base on gross personal income. That's where everything changes essentially. What's that supposed to provide? It's been said more than once here. It is not disputed that it is also a good variant, but in some other time and elsewhere. Surely, if it weren't for the economy as it is, if it weren't for the ten-year sanctions, the blockades, the bombings, the miracles, everything that happened in this country, that the economy had some basis to answer to, this principle would also have results when it comes to the PIO fund. However, this will lead to a vicious circle where we will now have the layoff of workers, because the employer will not be able to pay the contributions, to pay both personal income and anything else that is able to pay the workers. It will inevitably lead to the layoff of workers, the fall of production, and a vicious circle will be created that no one lives in this country will benefit. When it comes to the amount of money in the fund to be collected, there we have an estimate of the amount of financial resources needed to implement the law, which is given in this law, where it says - the transition from a net to a gross basis involving some other personal income, is an increase in the basis for paying contributions to PIO. For the same reasons, there will be a reduction in the current rate of contribution for PIO. It is estimated that the proposed bases and rates of the Republic Fund for PIO employees will generate a slightly smaller income that will be compensated from the Republic's budget. So now we have a situation that we'll have less income for retirement. Maybe it won't be less income if one mathematical estimate is made. We had inflation as said in April 9%, we had an inflation of the New Year quite: an increase in the price of drugs over 100%, milk over 100%, bread over 100%, electricity 60 percent and some percent, and we had, on the other hand, a decrease in the price of ball bearings, turbines for ocean ships, caviar and whiskey, so now that that comes plus 10. But what do pensioners have out of it? With this price increase, the number of pensioners will be reduced, so when a reduction in the number of pensioners is taken into account and an inflow of funds in the pension fund is reduced, it will sort of compensate. Therefore, we have one variant that DOS government now in one game with pensioners, whether there will be fewer pensioners, whether there will be less money in the PIO fund, leads to a serious struggle. Now the pensioners in this situation are in advantage, because now it's spring, so there's a little bit of this greenery, vegetables, vitamins. There may be fewer medicines to take, less money to allocate for that purpose. There's a chance, so the DOS government will have problems there. Otherwise, if it were winter, then it would simply be, the electricity, the heating, the drugs jump over 100%, and they automatically reduce the number of pensioners and thus have a better situation, when it comes to inflows of funds and opportunities for pension funds. Here we have, in practice, a kind of population policy that the DOS Government is implementing towards the pensioners and in general to the population. There are also positive options when it comes to population policy, because the DOS government is considering, in addition to reducing the number of pensioners, and increasing the birth rate and implementing it in the government's highest circles, and it should be welcomed, because however, the white plague has done us a lot of evil, and this increase in the birth rate that is currently in the DOS government itself, is likely to give us very positive results in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5780	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, followed by MP Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5781	Ladies and gentlemen, the pre-election or election coalition DOS was in that period when we competed to win voter confidence, promising that there were 200 or 300 new laws that represent new system solutions, where the root will change the system and the tax collection, and distortions, and the political system, etc. Now we're getting some laws that are supposed to be temporary, which are some transitional period, so it's going to be solved again later. So first of all, it's not true that you had your laws saved, you only had a desire to show voters how to earn their trust. With every new law you say - you'll be better, you just don't tell us when we'll be better, because you probably want it to be a surprise. But we survived somehow this up here. This better be yours, if you keep this up, we'll have a hard time surviving. It is already said that all these laws come from the Budget Law and now it is necessary to raise those planned funds. This does not include the choice of funds, and it does not take into account whether those who are to give these funds will be able to withstand what you are now imposing on them. The high basics on which the contribution is calculated and paid for insurance, i.e. employees, shall bear a special AKM marking - if possible. But the question is, how much will the obligor be able to pay contributions to such high-level foundations? The state has put itself above the employee. She has to settle her needs, her income, and her salary doesn't have to be paid. We're coming up with that maybe we'll get bigger pensions, but we need to live until we retire, so that's when we need to get paid. If the employer is unable to pay both wages and contributions, he will have to pay the contributions, and the salary can wait. We also tried to draw attention to some unrealities in the bill, or to a representative of the government, the Minister of Labour and Employment, but he was not worth saying because he was not really interested in it. He's not in the O.R., though, but there's a close relative of his, as a folk ambassador sitting here among us. In DOS it's somehow all connected, husband and wife, lover, friend, etc., so that his cousin will definitely pass it on to him. To those who earn, I say that Miroslav Ilic sings much better than his son-in-law, so let his father-in-law do it. You have cut even that option provided for by an earlier member of 149a, so that the employer can reduce the payment of the contribution by 50%, if justified and if under certain conditions the government finds it appropriate to reduce it. At least you could have kept it during this transitional period. It's strange in article 10 that you're constantly threatening to ban your performance, whether 30 or 90 days. It's gonna be hard for someone to put up with 90 days without working, and at that time they have to pay off all government obligations, taxes and contributions. As has already been said, this is a lot of preparation for the adoption of privatisation laws. I'm sorry to have to say this, although the head of the DOS parliamentary group is angry about it, but we didn't get it. We should get a proposal for a privatisation law, so we can talk about it more objectively. The head of the DOS parliamentary group says the government will not compensate the debts of companies by obtaining apartments from them, someone from the government, probably. He's asking us to take his word for it. They said it would be honorable, that it would be moral, that it would be something like superhumans, probably, that it would take care of its behavior, that nothing would defile the cheek of DOS, or government, and here's what we're seeing ministers, officials, maltenes running around our offices naked. So we can't believe it, because you broke that first promise. Minister, we can't ask you to withdraw this law, given that previous laws have been passed and that it's only about harmonising the basics. It would be desirable for the government to reconsider this whole package of laws and, before being published in the Official Messenger, and before the President of the Republic signs these laws, make another effort, think about it a little bit. Maybe this is an opportunity for some future time, to pass laws like this with a base like this and such rigidity, but at this point, it's certainly not. At least a few companies in Nis, large enterprises, will not be able to meet the requirements of these laws, not only of this law that we are challenging today, but of the previous laws as well. Take the example of Nitex, there was a privatisation minister, he visited the company, as well as the minister of work. It's a company that has a chance to survive, but this is going to get hit hard, and a lot of things are going to go down from before, and it wasn't great before. If this law gets green light today, and if the MPs in this assembly, the parliamentary majority, adopt this law, once again you will provide evidence for our claim that DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5782	The word has the People's MP Miomir Ilic, followed by Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected presidency, in yesterday's opening statement, the minister said in three minutes, how much she said, that a legal solution that is very important for those people who are now retired, and for those of us who are preparing for retirement, perspective, and that in those moments there is nothing more to say than to agree with existing legal regulations and to adapt to the transition of all the regulations that are brought here in parliament in the previous days, net on gross earnings. If it wasn't that simple, I'd tell you a few indicators in my presentation. First of all, a dramatic increase in the basis for contributions to PIO, and without accurate knowledge of the way the contribution rates will be reduced, for the economy of Serbia that has had a lot of problems in recent years, and that is evident. Is it only the blame of the majority who ruled in this republic, it certainly is, but we need to know that it was also the difficult factors that suggested that the economy would work in these difficult conditions. So said the president of the DOS parliamentary group that 730,000 workers do not work, that 770,000 workers work, said temporarily yesterday, and now fictitiously. That information is correct, and I as a businessman can confirm it. But surely these 700 and slightly more thousands of temporary and fictitious workers worked in these conditions as they allowed, or made it impossible. Our economy is its stability and its survival here and all the social upgrades, education and health care, as it was, must have done well and contributed as much as it could, for that moment as it was. I'm sure it wasn't easy and it wasn't safe in perspective. That this is so, that the existing legal regulations that spoke about ownership transformation have already done something that many small and medium-sized enterprises were carriers of such economic flows, the government which gave its programme a concept of economic development in small and medium-sized enterprises, confirms this because in previous legal solutions it was made. But the promises the government made on January 25th, when the prime minister here, together with ministers, gave one perspective -- an increase in industrial production of 5%, an inflation of 30%, the donation of known and famous NATO aggressors to our country -- now, after 100 days of government work, we can realise that this is not true, and Prime Minister Djindjic said in his final statement that this is the government of speed and expeditionivity, that this is a government that will not lie and will not steal. I can say after 100 days, as a businessman and as a participant in this debate, that the hard word is a lie, but that this is a lie. The truth stems from the fact, above all: inflation for the first four months of this year has gone beyond 15%, the rise in prices of various products and life supplies says that in the coming period this inflation will be drastically higher, since the increase in industrial production of 5% there is nothing, these economic operators who work like this do nothing at all, nothing is done in infrastructure, not in any production, but just as much as they can survive and as much as they can by October 5th to collect something from that 5th of October. Therefore, I can't say that these small and medium-sized enterprises were not the bearers of such economic development, but, on the contrary, I can argue that they paid and settled contributions to pension, disability and health insurance neatly, and that they may not have paid the contributions of some other entities, such as public enterprises. I cite an example of the electricity industry, the ZTP and others, who are now not paying these contributions, because from the data I have -- for the month of April, the electricity industry did not pay pension, disability, health and social insurance. He wanted me to know that information, so let's talk. It's not stability and instability in small and medium-sized enterprises that perspective, but it's our job here to stabilise the public interest, to bring into the routine economic flows of general interest, and the perspective is not to shut down small and medium-sized enterprises. This legal solution, or Article 125, tells what the Government wants, and what I advocate, that this financial discipline is primarily respected, because if everyone respected that financial discipline, then no law would be unrealistic. Every law is good as soon as it's passed, and it's brought in the way it's now being passed, with the conclusion that the amendments that the opposition is proposing here, you need to listen a little bit, listen and see that they're not malicious, but they're well-intentioned. If we apply this article in the same way that within 30 days, unless a contribution is paid for pension, disability, health and social, it will be approached by drastic penalties of the employer and the punishment of those operators who are now doing what they do. It ends 61 years after the declaration of fascist aggression in Europe, and on 9 May, we won Germany, together, and we didn't get a single dinar, not a single cent, not a single mark. If we'd gotten those stamps, we'd have restored that economy. Whether it's private or social, I'm sure it'd do us good, but at this point, we don't have it and let's not get carried away with it. I think we need our perspective to look into some other things, especially our resources and our subjects, our citizens and our workers. If we shut down this entity that exists, and certainly in these legal solutions that were before, and even now with this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on invalidity and pension insurance, we are not only protecting workers, but we are making it impossible for the employer to apply what is applicable at this time. These are rigorous measures, with rigorous deadlines, which obviously won't be realistic. You can bring whatever you want, but I as a businessman and as an employer can freely say that this will be difficult to implement, although it is my desire to implement it, because I would also be a good director, I would be a good worker, a good citizen and a good MP. So I think that you should have a little reason, take that we're at the moment we're in, that our economy can't be restored in two or three days by making a legal solution. Therefore, Madam Minister, I believe that this proposal should be withdrawn, that this law should be adapted to reality and that you, as a legislator of that law, come out and withdraw the proposal, even within the deadlines that you have given. The deadlines of June 1st, that's impossible. First of all, the other legal acts we passed, or laws, we said we had to do collective agreements, general collective agreements, individual collective agreements, border collective agreements. This should all be applicable in order for businesses to bring it and implement it, and legal solutions - drastic penalties per employer and by economic operators, banning business entities - that is really impossible, unrealistic and not right. Pull it, at least within the deadlines you've given. You have not passed any laws, but you have just passed the amendments and amendments to the law that should be applied and therefore, you are criticising some solutions, and it would be best if you had passed the laws completely. This is how you adopted our law that exists, you only corrected it in that section that talks about taxation and budgeting, which in any case has a imbalance of 22 billion dinars. Since today, on May 9th of this year, it ends not alone, but it ends with some anniversary in Pozharevc, the minister who was invited to come to Požarevac, and, as the means of information say, that with priests, he smokes this city that needs to be opened, I feel free to say, as a fireman, that it is a revolutionary city and that it is the one who smokes it best to come here to stake out this government and to lay down your laws and your proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5784	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Just to let the MPs who come here get these cards -- they'll be able to pick them up at the counter office in the lobby. I ask that future cards, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, be carried with them. There's about 25 of them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5785	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is turning into a debate about individual members. If you, as representatives of the opposition, are prepared for such a thing, then we are obliged to respond occasionally to your criticisms, which are also unargumented this time and perhaps the point was to mention the Fireman and some anniversary. In any case, what happened in that town a year ago and what preceded that event is something that as citizens of this Serbia we must be ashamed of and that we will never again experience these events. As far as these sanctions are concerned, it is not true that those sanctions are applied brutally and without prior warning. It is very clear in this proposal for a law that the competent tax authority will, no later than eight days after receiving the notice, establish the employer's obligations to pay a contribution within a certain period, in accordance with Article 125 of this Act. It is not specified within what time the employer must settle those obligations, because there are different circumstances under which the employer brings himself into such status. Of course, a fine has been defined for those who are found to be in possession of funds and are not doing something like that, and only after that fine has not been settled is this sanction that we are talking about today. It has to be so, so that in this country, no longer repeats the images that we are facing today, images that speak of a country that owes 460 million marks to pensioners. Where did that debt come from? Who made it? And did that have to be the way it had to be? It didn't have to be, there were funds, and it could've been smarter with those resources, but it wasn't working. Why didn't you do something like that? I think you have a duty to answer that question, not us. As for international aid and the world's relations with us, this is often mentioned here, I would just like to introduce you to a few facts, with one piece of information -- that our country has been admitted to the World Bank and that this reception has been sent through a billion-dollar and 700-million-dollar loan with a grace period of 10 years and an annual interest rate of 1%. I think it's something that goes in favor of everyone, especially the citizens. As for the donations we've used so far, we're marking 100 days of government. It's not a secret, and I'll remind you that in agriculture, we've received an amount of 11 million marks, in an electricity economy of 45 million marks, in a health care facility of 25 million marks, for social purposes, we've spent 46 million marks. At this point, we are starting to use international aid of 330 million marks and will be spent in the following way: 5 million marks will be allocated to agriculture, 185 million marks will be allocated to the electricity industry, 45 million marks will be spent to protect the environment, 11 million marks will be spent for health care, five million marks will be spent for social purposes, and for all other purposes we have allocated 85 million marks. These are the facts that we're talking about today, and I don't think we're happy in society when we depend on the world to that extent. The relations that have been established at this time contribute to the citizens of Serbia, regardless of political orientation, party membership, the programmes they are following; it is not correct for them to bypass these facts and I think that we are, in any case, obliged to pass this account on to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5786	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5787	Since I don't know what part of the agenda is, I've been away, maybe we've moved on to another part of the agenda. I'm only interested in one thing, how much help does it take to get into the Republic of Serbia to have citizens living as well as they did before October 5th? What's this number you need to secure charity?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5788	Mr. Nikolic, which member of the Rules of Procedure do you consider injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5789	Why don't you ask the predecessor by which member he speaks?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5790	You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure and you have a duty to say which member was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5791	Why don't you ask, my dear lady, the predecessor by which member he spoke. How come you're asking the opposition what member he's talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5792	The previous speaker did not report to the Rules of Procedure, you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5793	How much money, help, charity, how many Serbian souls to sell, how many cities and municipalities to lose, that at least the people live the way they lived until you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5794	This was another abuse, actually, reporting to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pavlovic, and the next reported for discussion is Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5795	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, we are today holding a principle debate on the law delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, and the law is on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, and is in the adoption procedure. So, I will at the warning of Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, that I should talk about the law, really talk about the law and really talk about it in principle. In particular and details, we will discuss when we treat, discuss amendments submitted by SPS MPs and other MPs in this assembly. Of course, Mr Ceda Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary majority's parliamentary group, has the right and obligation to defend and support the proposals made by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the government is, in fact, the ruling DOS government. There's nothing controversial about it, but I'd also like to ask it not to be disputed, and for the fifth time, I do the same thing whenever I go out for this pay phone, I'm forced to question our right to talk to legal projects, to criticise what's critical. To propose what could contribute to the improvement of the text and not to declare it a story story, but that we, too, are in the service of what we are sitting here as MPs, in the service of the people and those who voted for our programme and for our party. Since Mr Ceda provided certain information regarding what was done within 100 days of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he mentioned the figures, I couldn't, of course, remember how much we received from the donation, so I just want to remind myself that I was looking for this speaker on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group at the time when our Prime Minister Djindjic presented his government's work programme, he proposed the composition of the ministries and spoke what their programme was. I recall, he showed a book signed by both Dr Labus and Dr Dinkic and a large set of current DOS officials, and I'll bring it for the next session, and it's called the NATO Aggression Final Account, which they signed and declared to be $36 billion only direct damages, and a total of around 100 billion. To know what this is about, I suggested then, and now I ask Mr. Jovanovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to provide the National Assembly with written information, it is no secret, about what we really were talking about, what I just talked about, what we got from the donors, what we got from these conferences, what we got from helping, in any way, and how much money it is, to put it in the context of the story about NATO damage, and to see what we got, and what we lost. What is particularly important is that we see what these funds have been spent on. I think this Parliament deserves it and that this way there would be no reason for us not to understand each other or to accuse ourselves needlessly. I hope the Assembly has the right to ask for such information. As for the principled debate concerning the concrete text of the law, the reasons for its adoption are given, and he has only 14 members. The reasons and reasons for its adoption are given on almost four sides. Among other things, I'm just going to remind you of three that are important. The topic is a principle debate on the pension and disability insurance law, and the topic is the reason for its adoption, proposed by the government. Systemic changes in tax laws are the reason for the change in the financing of compulsory social insurance, including the financing of pension and disability insurance. Secondly, the assumption of these changes and additions are, above all, changes in labour legislation, which go parallel to amendments to the rules in the area of financing mandatory social security. In addition, by establishing a unique basis, i.e. Gross earnings, the aim is to simplify the system of accounting and tax and contribution payments, which aims to overcome the current complicated system. The pension and disability insurance financing system continues to retain the principle of paid earnings, as well as the lowest basis for payment of contributions, at the level of expertise. On the fourth page, it is written that the transition from a net to a gross basis, including some other personal incomes, is an increase in the basis for paying contributions to pension and disability insurance. For these reasons, it is said, futuristic or hypothetically, there will be a reduction in the current rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance. The evaluation that the proposed bases and rates of the Republic Fund for PIO employees will generate a slightly smaller income, which will be compensated from the Republic's budget, which some MPs have already spoken of. On two or three occasions, Ms. Minister, when she went out for this pay phone, in the middle with MPs and their presentations, had just repeated and claimed that this was not a reform law, that it was not a system law, that he did not bring anything radically, new, that he was in fact only amending and supplementing the existing law that was passed in the second place. Secondly, that all the arguments related to the bill that the Government has written in the document, which you have made for this speaker, that everything is said here, that there is nothing new to take away, and to add, other than to adopt the law in the text proposed by E, now, is that exactly why I don't think so, not entering into details and amendments, I will point to three things. First, the basic thing and it cannot be bypassed, because Article 2 of the Law, it is also a principle debate, it is also an individual debate. This sets out the bases on which insurance contributions are calculated and paid, which include the transition from net to gross earnings, as explained. Two things are indisputable here, and it is indisputable from my point of view that they should enter into the retirement base, and other personal receipts of a warm meal, a regress, a field supplement, if a contribution is paid for them. The second is undeniable, the base is increased by two to six times, according to how we calculated it. You have no reason to be angry that we're saying that the nominal base is increased, which is correct. There are three things that can be set up about this, in principle. First, as these amounts have just come to light, since no one knows exactly and no one has specifically calculated the degree of individual contribution in this matter, given that the rates of contributions are yet to be established and that we do not know anything about them yet, they are given in the jurisdiction of someone else. Secondly, it will certainly be controversial, whether we are willing to admit it or not, how to pay such contributions on such a basis and such income, in such an economic situation, in such an economic inactivity, no matter how much you, as a Government or MPs of the DOS, could give criticism to those who had previously exercised power, that they have brought their actions or inaction into such a situation as it is. And that can be said, but we are now talking about a concrete law and text that should actually be applied and implemented to this economic situation, that is, this environment. I'm saying this because it won't be possible to realize what is proposed, unless the conditions of engagement and economy are significantly changed. Thirdly, as in previous law, the obligation of employers has been established, and some MPs have already spoken about it, and it cannot be avoided either. Whether the criminal measures proposed are appropriate, or not, it is obvious that in this part the law is also regimeal. So it's not reform, it's regimeal. In what sense - in the sense that the employer has an obligation to contribute the bill based on the basis that you said and the rates to be determined, and is obliged to pay it, whether it has the means to pay the workers. And last time I spoke to the previous law, and now we have an amendment to this law; they should consider Mrs. Minister and Government as a pronoun, not to insist on whether it is rigorous or not, but for the employer, it is certainly a difficult pain and a problem. We have also proposed this in the past law, and we are now proposing: in a situation where the employer does not have enough conditions and resources to pay for contributions and profits etc. that the contributions are calculated at 1,800 dinars and that the rest is paid partly to workers, with the obligation of the employer to make the necessary material terms and conditions, and to make additional contributions to the accounts he had under this law that he was in a normal material situation. Article 4 - the law and obligations of ministers to enforce the agreement. And last time I asked, in the previous law, and now I'm asking -- I don't see any guarantee, I don't see any criminal provisions for ministers and you, and social security, and health care, etc., which are defined here in Article 4, when you're going to agree, what are you going to agree on, in what way are you going to agree, how will it be applied to what you agree, and what if you don't agree at all, in the sense of applying the law? In that case, the law will not be applied in the term that you have proposed, and I think it is more realistic, and I suggest that you (if you cannot withdraw the law, I understand that), to postpone its application by the end of the year and that it enters into force from 1 January 2002. And let me say one more thing - now pensions to our voters and citizens are in line with the increase in earnings, right? You are now announcing that, when this law is applied, the alignment will be to the growth of net earnings, which will be completely unfavourable for pensioners, and for the present, and us future. I apologize to my colleagues and to you for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5796	The word is Mr. Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5797	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the MPs, were violated by the provisions of Article 93. Please establish the quorum by counting, or any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5798	On the proposal of the People's MP, Mr Baralic, I ask the MPs to establish the quorum. I ask the National Assembly's service to count the MPs present, so that we know if we have a quorum, since it is obvious that some MPs do not respect the Rules of Procedure and do not insert identification cards, while sitting in the O.R. (The Serbian Radical Party's emissaries are leaving the O.R.). )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5799	According to the Service, 128 MPs are present in the O.R. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic (not in the Hall) has the word. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Invalidity Insurance Act is on the agenda. The reason I'm reporting for the word is that again those who have ruined everything that could have been ruined in this country, even a little more, are reporting for word and criticizing the laws of this government. The new government should fill the funds that the old government, which had ruled for 12 - 13 years, in an easy - to - change system. They left us empty tills and a lot of problems, and now they're top critics of the new government. They spent pension funds, and then they started spending pensioners. The pensioners died rarely of hunger, the disease not to mention, so the pensioner was getting smaller and smaller. They stole their pensions, stole their dignity, there's nothing they couldn't steal for the little pensions they paid after they emptied pensions and disability funds, they realized they were printing money, so pensioners didn't cost them anything. When they needed the pension money, they printed it, then no cover, no merchandise, that fake pension money. So pensions fell from 500 to 350, then to 300, then to 250, then to 100, then to 50, so they weren't even paid to the end. Now, the new government has to fill pension funds and in this sense is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The reason I'm reporting is to warn the government that she'll be responsible for all the laws she's passed. The people are the ultimate judge, and if the government doesn't deliver results, the people will say theirs and we won't defend power at all costs. The power is changed, the power is given by the people, not by God, and when the people come to think that this authority should be removed, the people will do so. Also, I would like to warn the government that it is necessary to consider and pass a new law on pension and disability insurance for farmers. All old people have the right to a dignified age, including peasants. The peasants don't know what vacation is, what summer is, what winter is. Most people don't know what pensions are. The former government provided them with pensions that were two years late, so they did not receive them, as the citizens did not receive child benefits, i.e. they received papers. The villagers didn't even get the papers. They got a lousy 190 dinar pension in half a month, so 380 dinars maximum in a month, and those pensions were two years late. Now that delay is a little reduced. So, the government must consider a new law on pension and disability insurance of landowners, because farmers also have the right to a dignified age, a team before considering that, in the last 12 years, in their coat of arms and age, the peasant backs have borne the main burden of this, so to speak, the criminal authorities, which we have replaced and which today criticises everything, and what's right, and perhaps it's not the best solution, but it's far better than their solution. I can say that good critics have no shame or shame. They were the bravest government in the world, not because they were not afraid of anything, but because they were not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5801	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5802	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this much desire to fill the budget by this authority is present in all the laws that have been passed and discussed these days. From the legislators, including some MPs of the ruling majority in this assembly, I have heard great lies. These laws are always played with two things, at least when it comes to pay laws. We play with gross wages, net wages, amounts, all of us, as the ruling majority says, repacked, but basically it's the same. However, I must say, it has nothing to do with the truth. First, by over a hundred percent, you have increased the basics on which the contribution is paid. You promised to reduce the rates at which the contributions were paid. That I trust you on my promise a little harder, and even those cuts you promise are moving around around 30%. So 70% of the contributions are getting bigger. Someone else said companies that can't pay their salaries and contribute to workers should be shut down. Well, if it were another country and another economy, it might pass, but it can't, because it's over 70% of the company. So over 70% of the workers will be fired one way or another or they'll be out of a job. It's a little strange for members of the ruling coalition, because they are constantly criticising previous laws and previous authorities, as she is responsible for all of this and these tax regulations are allegedly seeking to remove these shortcomings. However, I must tell you that so far, no single rule of law has been passed by the ruling coalition, which would improve the Yugoslav and Serbian economies in the conditions in which it works. The conditions remain as they were inherited, and the contributions that should follow the state and the budget are even higher. What the gentleman who will vote for this law will say is from the Democratic Party of Serbia from Smederev, because according to him, a pensioner is coming to the municipality of Smederjevo in the town of Smederjevo. Once this law is applied, it will probably be a lot more pensioners than employees. Then who's gonna fill out the pension funds? Who's gonna pay the wages to the workers who are out of a job? And there's something else I need to tell you. This is particularly true for Mr. Head of the DOS Parliamentary Group - if the previous salary account had been harmful to workers - it might well go away if the gentleman knew how to calculate the basics for pension and disability insurance and basics that will be retired by the worker. The pension base is taken for the 10 most fertile years of work, which means that people who are now due to retire, that they founded a working relationship in 1970 will probably have a higher pension than wages in the economy. So, gentlemen of the DOS, you're 10 years old -- when those who founded the employment relationship in 1980, are going to retire, to enable them to make a proper reckoning. You're 10 years old, a time period of 10 years, to create an economy of conditions for this law to come into effect. I don't think it takes any less, but if necessary, I don't understand why such a rigorous law, which is likely to cause serious damage to the Serbian and Yugoslav economies, is today being passed. You can't convince me it has nothing to do with the privatisation law. And as you started, you won't even have to pass that law, because Serbian companies will be privatized in another way. This already occurs in my municipality, Pogorec, where various social enterprises are placed in bankruptcy and liquidation, there is an education of bankruptcy that is far less than the real value of the company itself, where one bid is scheduled, then another auction, then the third. Each next auction draws 30% of the value of the company, and the fourth includes only one participant in the bidding that gives as much. Currently in Požarevec is the most present owner of the "Bird Product", otherwise the godfather of Zoran Djindjic, who is used in such tactics. I believe that the privatisation law is also delayed until it achieves its economic and economic objectives throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5803	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5804	Mr. President, the Service of the National Assembly is required to count the MPs correctly if it determines the quorum by counting. There were 117 MPs, and 128 were reported. I ask that the quorum be established with a pronunciation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5805	Do you know what the Rules of Procedure predicts? You know? And what do you suggest? (Glass from the O.R.: Yes, he counts.) He didn't say, did you say roll call? Well, then with a roll call. Here you go. I didn't hear, so I'm asking him to repeat, if he did, we'll go after the Rules of Procedure with a roll call. We'll do business when he's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5806	Alexic Bojana - present, Andric Vladimir - present, Andric Ivan - present, Andric Dr Milena - not present, Angelkovic Dušica - present, Angelkovic Zoran - present.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5807	Don't frown on me there, read the Rules of Procedure and pay attention to Rule 95. Don't throw it at me and interrupt the secretary while he does what you asked him to do, and that's to call to determine whether the number of MPs in the O.R. is enough. Please, you asked to establish the quorum by counting. There's a very high suspicion of who was looking for it, and that's the one who's right about the Rules of Procedure. Sir, take the Rules of Procedure into your hands, drum him up a little bit, and then let's get this assembly in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5808	Antonijević Dr Vuko - present, Arnerić Neda - not present, Arsic Veroljub - not present, Arsic Joca - present, Adžić Slobodan - present, Babić Dragoš - present, Bajić Rade - not present, Bajčetić prof. Predrag - present, Baralić Rajko - present, Beretić Anita - present, Bešević Branko - present, Biači Anton - present, Binić Dragisa - not present, Blažić Dr Branislav - not present, Bogdanović Mr Nenad - present, Boštanković Miroljub - not present, Budimović Jasimir - present, Budišin Dusan - not present, Bušetić Toma - not present, Vatović Dragoljub - present, Vojtanković Miroljub - not present, Vekšić Dragan - present, Vesić Goran - not present, Vlahović Teodora - not present, Vlažanović Dragoljužan - present, Vojić Bozidar - not present, Vekšić Dragan - present, Vjekšić Dragan - is not present, Vesić Goran Gorandar - not present, Všić - not present, Vrsadar - Not present, Vrsačić Dosunjan, Vrhić - Not present, Vlažan, Vlažan Žurć - not present, Vlažar, Vlažan Žurć - not present, Vladimir Žurć - Not present, Vladimir Žović - Noković is not present, V. Borislav - present, Perić Hranislav - not present, Petković pristupan Dr Dusan - present, Petković Milisav - present, Petrović Mr Radojko - not present, Petrović Marko - present, Petrović Mr Mirko - present, Petrović Petar - not present, Petrović Srdjan - not present, Pljužarević Vitomir - not present, Pomoričko Mr Branislav - not present, Pop - Lazić Gordana - not present, Popatan Dr Sava - not present, Popović Mr Aleksandar - present, Popović Dragisa - present, Popović Srđa - not present, Popović Srđa - not present, Radović Živić Živić Živić - not present, Predoev Živić Živić - not present, Proroković Dusan - not present, Proroković Dusan - is not present, Radivojčević Milosu - present, Radivojčić Milosu - present, Radović Milosa - is not present, Radović Drag, Radović - not present, Radović - not present, Radović - not present - not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5809	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, first of all, I would like to apologize for the violation of Rule 95's Rules of Procedure, for which the chairman gave me a reasonable criticism. This was not intentional, nor malicious, but was the result of unsuccessful and unjust communication, from me as an MP, from the post and the chairman, as he also came forward with a proposal from the MPs for this loss of time of almost 40 minutes. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 80, the final position, i.e. the third and sixth position. The third position -- "The quorum is determined by applying the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting a card into the parliamentary unit. "I don't think it should be explained that we are witnesses, not to say hostages, of that time spent here, in the frequent abuse of this attitude by many MPs who constantly insist on determining the quorum. The sixth position of the same member, Article 80. "If the MP raises doubts about the quorum established by the count of the MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by the call of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search. "In this case, the National Assembly has not been asked, and we have spent enough time, so let me just let me not break the Rules of Procedure myself as far as time goes, to advertise and injure a member of the 101st who foresees a situation of warning. Of course, in all paragraphs 1 to 7, countless times the Rules of Procedure have been broken, countless insults, and all that is prescribed in this Rules of Procedure are spoken from this pay phone and not just from this pay phone. I just want to call on the last indent that says that "the warning is given to the People's MP, if other procedures violate the order of the session, or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure". If normal conditions are viewed as orderly in the National Assembly, I believe that in an incomparably larger number of cases many MPs here could have been warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5810	First, let's see with this objection to the violation of Rule 80 Rules of Procedure, the final position. You're absolutely right about that. The National Assembly did not decide this, but it pointed out that there is no quorum and it is very difficult to apply this inaccurate provision of the Rules of Procedure. I thought it was very important, and you're otherwise right, it took the National Assembly to come forward. I think this is the time we have spent, not with our will, very precious, that we will once and for all remove suspicion and objections (and such objections we have had before and at today's session) that the National Assembly is working without a quorum. We've established no quorum, but a large quorum, and we interrupt the session when I realize the quorum is gone. This basically removed suspicion was thrown into the service that she unwittingly counted those present in the O.R. Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Nikolic. Anyway, it doesn't matter, one by one. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I was the first to ask for the word, it is very important. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5811	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Nikolic, you are not in the room, in accordance with Article 204 which defines the obligation of the People's Parliament to participate in the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to make a statement about the motion concerning Article 101 and the attitude in which the reminders are given to those MPs who violate the order at the session. I will also present to the Secretary of the Assembly a list of MPs who have verified their presence at today's session, a list of MPs who have thus acquired the legal acquisition of the ambassador's journal. I will ask the secretary to conduct an analysis between those MPs who have verified their presence at the session and those MPs who participated in the session, that those MPs who were not there should be given a warning measure and that we do something like that again, if this situation is repeated, Which is why MPs will lose their right to speak according to the current agenda. [[Applause]] I think that, and this current Rules of Procedure, it allows us to address the situation that we travel countless times and that we have lost 40 minutes, which is valuable, both because of the dilemma that has been removed, and because of the consequences that MPs who have been acting like this will be dealing with. (Kedomir Jovanovic teaches the list to Georgi Maric, the secretary. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5812	Mr. Nikolic, come in. Please, we've had a normal session for two days. What's gotten into you guys?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5813	For this pay phone, anyone can come out and suggest, but at least that makes sense. That means whenever an MP leaves the O.R., a reminder is given to him because he's out of the O.R. What gives you the right to ask at the moment when the quorum is determined the MPs are in the O.R. What does that look like? Whenever Mr. Jovanovic comes out of the O.R., we need to give him a warning -- where you're going, now we're going to determine the quorum. You are the hostages of the fact that your majority does not respect the sessions of the National Assembly. At any moment... This is already going beyond measure. I understand you're being irritated. It's my job. Try to control your nerves a little bit. At any time when it says 126, no one's looking for a quorum. When you're not in the O.R., then we're looking for a quorum. Mr. President, you did hurt the Rules of Procedure, but we don't need to be accused by the MPs of the DOS. You consciously did it to secure the quorum. I knew about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I saw Mr. Jovanovic's haste, who ran to prove everyone's injury to the Rules of Procedure, because the Parliament did not decide whether there would be a call vote. However, if the Assembly of that class had decided whether to call, you did not have a quorum at that time. Am I asking you something? It doesn't really make sense. You can stare all you want, but I'm at the pay phone. Okay, don't stare, you're torturing. I'm at the pay phone because I got my word. You're using unarticulated screams to stop me from speaking. So, while the quorum was being determined, the quorum gathered. The MPs came in and asked what name is on the agenda -- yeah, it's good, it'll have places for me too. Furthermore, you later circled some MPs, who entered the O.R. after calling. The presence in the hall shall be determined at the time when the name of the Members is read. I have information, people have watched television, they say that Mr. Secretary, who runs away, has circled my name as if I were present. The moment my name was read, I was out of the O.R. Of course I'm going in after that, but I'm not the one who's going to do the quorum. To be clear with that quorum, most people can't punish the minority because there's no quorum. Secure 126 MPs in the O.R., the entire opposition will be there. It's our responsibility for the session to run, not not to run. You wonder why it suits you not to let the session run.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5814	Mr Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5815	The 100th is injured. We've been here "bleeding and torturing" at the presentation of the previous speaker. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: That's true. I hear he made that statement, and I ask that his warning be given. It's clear to me that Mr. Nikolic is nervous, because their little game of quorum failed, as it usually does not work. They were running away from the O.R., they were coming back from the O.R., they were probably at the cash register to raise the log, I don't know, and that's not the subject of this Rules of Procedure. I ask that we be determined according to what MP Cedomir Jovanovic has demanded, which is to compare the documents and determine who is playing with this assembly and that some measures are being taken towards it. So you must know the order. If someone's looking for a quorum, it's okay, if someone's looking at the quorum site, and we still decide to call him by calling and say that almost 150 MPs are present in the O.R., then the consequences of wasting time should be borne by those who signed up here for the diaries, and then run away when the quorum is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5816	The word is Mr Branislav Ivković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5817	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think we have entered a game that is slowly becoming a political game and primarily aimed at declaring one or another group of MPs guilty of not holding a session. I don't want this to happen any further, and that's why I called. I think that any further decisions would not be good if they were made in the Rules of Procedure, as Mr Jovanovic said, because it is a public secret, and that is indeed true, that DOS has 176 MPs. Don't let 50 of your MPs be, you have 126, you have a quorum. The fact is, the citizens you're talking to are familiar with pictures of television cameras, half-empty halls when it comes to amendments, they're familiar with pictures of MPs reading newspapers with interesting pictures. Let's not deal with this, let's move to the agenda, but the moral responsibility for the quorum lies with the DOS, which has 176 MPs, and it is the right of the opposition to prove to the citizens of Serbia that whoever has so many can't raise 126 MPs. And don't let us go to warnings and things like that, this just happened to be a moment, because surely the opposition's answer will be - as soon as the amendments start, as soon as you all line up next to the bar - we're looking for a quorum. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5818	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5819	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Rules of Procedure defines the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament. And when I claimed to define and measures to sanction irresponsible behaviour, I did not say that these measures would apply to the MPs of the opposition without applying to MPs of the position. Those measures should apply to all those people who have verified their presence and who do not participate in the work of the congregation. I don't care if it's the MPs of my parliamentary group, or the MPs of the opposition. We will determine the moment when the secretary informs them who these people are, and these people need to be given a warning, and if something like that happens again, they will be taken away from them on the agenda points. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5820	The word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5821	Ladies and gentlemen, what is the quorum of this National Assembly, this is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall be responsible for the interpretation and application of the Rules of Procedure. We just had two presidents here in a failed attempt, or in the shadows, from opposition parties, because the fact, in Article 80(3), is that the quorum is determined by the application of an electronic voting system, by the way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card. Either you will respect the Rules of Procedure, as well as any other law, and so it will be the order in Serbia, or you will produce political debates, self-evaluating what the quorum is. The quorum is what we are commanded by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as interpreted by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Dragan Marsicanin, not the shadow president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5822	Since we are no longer registered with respect to the Rules of Procedure, we do not have any more reports on the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. (Employer Srboljub Zivanovic asks for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, the very serious point we are discussing today is the pensioners. But you see how we all behave here. I'm not going to talk about whether it's the opposition or the position, but there's a lot of inconclusion between us all. Please, I truly ask you, here, in this room, in this House, on these problems, on these laws, we speak humanly, truly and without being thrown away. Everyone came out here to make their own contribution, as much as they could and as much as his will. That's why I think, you see, right now, the point of throwing is, so you don't care about this. If I'm not gonna talk, if you want to finish it, I'm gonna pull out of this pay phone, but I think it's a big shame not to discuss this, if there's a little bit of my stake that I can help solve this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable President, the basis on which the contribution is calculated and paid for insurance workers, makes a profit, in accordance with the law or collective agreement, on the basis of which the pension basis is established. This law regulates that personal incomes paid by employers to employees every month are included in gross earnings and form the basis for paying taxes and contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the following other personal receipts are thought of here: compensation for a warm meal, regression and field allowance, while other personal incomes (data, solidarity aid and others) would remain outside gross earnings, i.e. would not be included in the single basis for paying taxes and contributions. Much in the previous period has been said about the additions that employers pay to employees, and there has been a conclusion that this would be a disaster for workers and employers. First, by obtaining these funds from the employer, the worker manages to survive somehow, as well as his family. As far as the employer is concerned, he now has to stand out more at the PIF, thus reducing the payoff on the hands of employees and making it even more difficult to deal with the difficult situation of employees. The pension and disability insurance financing system continues to retain the principle of paid earnings, as well as the lowest basis for paying contributions according to the degree of expertise, which are mandatory if earnings are paid in less than the prescribed basis. This is because the lowest base in the current application in 1.1.1999 proved to be a good solution, thus reducing the ability for employers to avoid payments and to contribute to real earnings. In addition, the lowest basics represent labour prices established by border collective agreements. The newspaper of these changes and the addition is that they are now limited by the highest basis for payment of contributions, which has not been the case so far. I don't think this is real or real. The Retirement and Disability Insurance Act stipulates that the highest pension base is 3.8 average monthly net earnings per employee in the Republic of the previous year. This means that in this way it is brought into line with the level of payment of contributions for compulsory pension and disability insurance with the level of rights, because this is precisely about the achievement, or the personal investment of insurance undertakings, of the right to exercise in the event of the risks prescribed by law. By proposing that the limit be five average earnings, the principle of solidarity is accepted, which I don't think is good. The economic situation in the country is very difficult, especially after the Friday-October revolution, when no business branch works or works at a showdown capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that regular pensions would be paid -- it's necessary for the economy to work, so companies have to pay into that fund, but I don't know what to pay, when they don't have to pay themselves, and you still want gross earnings. I again point out that this law has not been consulted with socially-oriented interest organisations of the citizens of the unions. Ladies and gentlemen, with his proposal, the government wants to tax the regress, a warm meal, a field supplement, a travel allowance, allegedly to increase the base for pension and disability insurance. The basis under the proposed law must not be lower than: 1. And the rate before was 470 dinars now 3,033 dinars. 2. II degree - 800 dinars, now 4.427" 3. III degree - 950 dinars, now it's 5. 262" 4. To grade 6.635 "5. You're 1,300 dinars, and now it's 7. 145" 6. VII degree 1,700 dinars, and now it's 9,409" 7. VII 2 degrees 1,900 dinars, and now it's 10. 510" 8. The VIII rate is 2,300 dinars, and now it's 12. 724." So now you see for yourself how much that difference is. We heard from Minister Djelic that we'd ruined the future, I'd ask him what's wrong with the present. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking about a pension and a disability fund, for now and pensioners in the future, and what about pensioners in the present? Large collection: electricity, utility, taxes, etc. - so there's nothing left for them to maintain living standards (food, clothing, heating, etc.).). Prime Minister, Mr. Jovanovic, don't read the paper. However, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, in his exposé, promised a million and 300,000 pensioners to stabilise pensions, regular payouts and a better life for those who are physically and healthlessly unable to support themselves through additional jobs. Also, they are not able to buy from their pensions medicines whose price is high and what they need in this lifetime. Peasants' pensions are so small that it's a shame for every pensioner -- peasants to say their worth. Now you pay them off through German donations. And this time, pensioners have been cheated as in the previous period: when they have to vote, when their voice is to be used, then their pensions are increased, they get humanitarian packages, health services by local communities are controlling their blood pressure; they all make them get their vote, but then they forget them. That's why many pensioners live, as in the previous period, from containers, and it's called DOS democracy. That's why I think the government should withdraw this law from the procedure because it's unrealistic, restrictive, unusable and should give it to re-processing and processing. Only when there's a recovery of the economy can this law work. I am sorry that many discussions on this matter are given by those who have not worked in the area, and much of this matter is discussed and spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5824	The word has a People's MP Gordana Comic, then Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5825	Ladies and gentlemen, the people who listen to and watch us on these TV broadcasts should come from the argument that we exchange in the assessment of the proposed acts, whatever they are, that they can assess the intentions, the quality of the promoters and the consequences that these acts will produce for their daily lives. From these discussions, the only intention that can be assessed, which concerns the law on pension and disability insurance, is that MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, DOS in general, abstain from discussions, not because they have no argument, but because they know that everything is there and everything is going to be in Serbia, but time is gone, too. The argument we have heard from other MPs about this law shows the intention and the atmosphere of our lives for 10 years. It's just a story of rights. So, talk about rights, all rights, and these are demagogue empty rights, rights that are considered as such, regardless of whether they concern pension and disability insurance, political rights, media rights, rights on any segment of life. Talk about rights, let the rights go like honey for the ears of the people, and forget everything else. If anyone complains, shut up. That was the intention that was accomplished. What needs to be heard, too, about the Pension and Disability Insurance Act now is something that should be heard every time we propose any law, which is that there are rights, that there are obligations and that there is also a responsibility for the execution or failure of those obligations. That it's not on paper, that it's not just the demagogy of politicians who don't have better jobs, but that they're singing to each other, but that it's everyday life, that it's something that happens every day in each other's lives. In addition, "also, also" we have concepts with which MPs come out here to argue what they think is a huge grudge and do one classic, very skilled argument, which is - say the information half, or - replace the thesis. For example, the information up to half is that everyone is well-guarded to say what a gross salary is, what a net salary is and what it actually means for the everyday life of each of us, what it meant before, and what it will not mean in the future. What it meant before is that I'm only talking about rights and telling the worker -- here's your net salary, here's something in the halves, in the oil and sugar, and don't ask me for contributions because that's not your concern, because this is the burazer economy, because I asked the minister and he told me -- you can't pay the contributions, it doesn't matter. It is something that will never happen in Serbia again. What are obligations and employers and workers... You can see how MPs understand themselves in the burazer economy and the burazer phonery, there is an immediate comment. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] So that kind of economy will never exist in Serbia again. There is a group of MPs who understand the economy better, and they listen with silence. That, unfortunately, is true. And they know what it's about. What will it look like and what will it mean about new provisions under the pension and disability insurance law? It will mean the employer's obligation to meet his obligations in this area. Yes, it will mean that commitment. What was the argument? If he meets those obligations, he can't pay his salary -- it's not information, it's not an argument, it's a spread of fear. There is a growing fear here that Serbia's modernisation project will not succeed, that the reform law project cannot succeed, that the economy in Serbia cannot be modernised and that the whole project must certainly fail, because this is "Serbia". It's about an argument that ultimately remains out of all these problems, not only about the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which concerns the future of employees in Serbia, but also everything else. Why can Serbia's modernisation succeed and why must law, obligation and responsibility be introduced? Because the obligation of the employer, when the sum of the contributions to be paid to workers is expressed, also implies his obligation to keep an eye on how he manages the entrusted public goods, if he is the director of a public or public undertaking, to the trustee of the stockholder, if he is the director of AD or the trustee of social well-being, if he is the Director of the PDP or of the DP. The only difference in what modern Europe knows about governance is that it is standardised in (ISO) 9,000 and 14,000 etc. The only thing Serbia lacks is to manage, that all those with whom something is entrusted with governance are managed as if they were born. When you start managing cases like that and there are as many Serbia as you want, then your argument, when you pay your contributions, you won't have to pay for it - falls into the water. So it's just that this is the way the employer's obligation to end the burazer economy and the burazer phonery. The problem -- the companies will go bankrupt, they'll be unemployed. Any failure will go bankrupt, as any failure by us will lose the election, with the right. And so every failure in the economy will go bankrupt. There will be neither theft nor corruption, nor burasser telephony about who will be the forced manager or president of a bankruptcy council to infinity, as it has happened in companies. The bankruptcy process is clearly defined by this law. It is not mentioned here because we know in advance the number of failed enterprises in Serbia, but because of the fear of firing. In Serbia, 730,000 people are not employed. Anything that could have been fired in Serbia for the last 10 years has already been fired. For 700,000 seemingly employees, the problem mentioned here is that this number will be increased. The thesis serving the PIO law is the tendency to spread fear of privatisation, to instrumentise a law that is not yet in the assembly procedure. In advance, the field is being prepared to discuss our intentions, evaluate our determination, and assess the consequences of their daily lives, to prepare that privatisation is not good. When it comes to the agenda, and it will come to the meetings of this assembly as soon as possible, to justify the already used replacement of thesis, the argument from the tax laws package, from the social protection, health or PIO laws. A curious man here asked - when to live in Serbia as it was before the September and December elections. It will never live like that in Serbia again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5826	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 98, paragraph 1, has been injured. We only have one minister here to sublime some previous debates, to respond to our fears, to our fears, and it is not the work of some MPs. I think, Mr. President, you should have mentioned in the course of exposition of the predecessors, that he should have talked about the law, not about what the MPs of the opposition said and what is true and what is not. Speaking of which, why am I afraid of the consequences of your laws? Because I always have a program in front of me that won the election. It says that in the first 100 days of the new government you will pass a law on social custody and help the poor, anti-corruption law, the law on the military and police, the law on courts and judges, the law on the public prosecutor's office, the criminal laws, the law on criminal proceedings and the law on...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5828	Mr. Nikolic, you've entered the line, and you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5829	The law on the university, the law on local self-government, the package of election laws. You didn't make any of that happen. I'm beginning to suspect that you've lied a lot to us in the election campaign. The one who lies once lies, the one who lies forever. And whoever's lying, he's stealing. Whoever steals is going to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5830	According to the Rules of Procedure, please, just a second to answer. We have a replica, we have Mr. Ivkovic, then Mrs. Matkovic, then a break. The remark was, of course, inappropriate, and you didn't answer because of that remark, but to replicate. The point is, in my opinion, inappropriate. There were no violations of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs. Komic. She, like any MP of the people, has the right to conjecture her exposure as she sees it. She didn't come out of the agenda, unless all the speakers whose exposure she looked back on didn't come out of the agenda. You've determined that she's responded to opposition MPs' remarks. That left it in the agenda, unless all MPs of the opposition parties came out of it. So I think everything was fine. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic, then the second announcement, Mr. Ivkovic Mr. Nikolic. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: To whom replica?]] (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: How, Mr. President, when I am looking for a replica then set all the conditions, did I mention Jovanovic? It won't take long.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5831	Mr. President, I can only explain. Can I call a member of the Rules of Procedure first...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5832	Let's go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5833	Therefore, Article 96 paragraph 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, namely a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply." Please, in accordance with this article, I am entitled to a replica. Maybe for someone qualified to lie, steal, rob, cheat is not an insult. Allow me to use the right of this member on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group, the MPs representing the citizens of Serbia who have chosen them, and I say that you have offended us and that they are false. Let me remind you that as a representative of the SRS, you have the least moral right to something like that. I don't want to speak personally of you or any SRS MP, I'm talking about the idea you're defending here. You here, Mr. Nikolic, accuse DOS of cheating on Serbian citizens, of stealing Serbian citizens (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: What did I lie? ) to rob Serbia's economy, to run a treasonous policy. You think that you will be able to put aside the harmful consequences of the government that you have done and in which you have participated, and which we are removing today. There are 700 thousand people on the Bureau, 700 thousand people without pay, 1,600,000 pensioners without pensions, 800,000 refugees, businesses on their knees. I am merely responding to the hypocrisy with which you are performing here, here, delivering the decision of the flag group of 19 May last year, which is intended for the implementation of the programme of reconstruction and development of the flag group, which has been bombed, in which 35 000 employees work only in the flag of cars approve funds in the name of donation to the SRS. That's true, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5834	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5835	That's what it says about the moral dimensions of the policy you've been leading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5836	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5837	Your Honor, Mr. President, as far as I can tell, a lot of warning candidates are now out of the O.R. It's not easy for you, Mr. President, but it's your own fault. You let Madam Vice President give a political lecture, take a field trip to the privatisation law, act here as a teacher, and you never once warned her. The result is that I'm behind the pay phone too, but let's move on a little bit. I'll try to help you. We had a direct teacher's lecture on the system - but the opposition, I caught you in a bad way, and we didn't get any arguments about what was said for this speaker. Since she's allowed to talk for 10 minutes, she's going on a field trip, I'm going to try to help you out, make less out of it, but first of all I'm going to tell the facts. First fact: the government of the Republic of Serbia made a 3.5-fold budget higher than last year. Another fact: this Government of the Republic of Serbia has rightly gone to abolish different taxes, taxes, contributions, but has additionally burdened the economy in the battery, but much more citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the budget it has made has the least resources to boost the economy. This government of the Republic of Serbia has since September taken over an economy that has a 26% increase in production on 24 September, and now has only 25% of production processes under way. Dear Mrs Comic, 52,000 workers lost their jobs in December and January. They joined them on Friday alone over 400 workers of the National Bank of Yugoslavia who failed to pass the test of Mr Dinkic, where is the main issue - what is a cloned sheep? And they turned out to be sheep. Dear Mrs. Komic, this speaker here asked your colleague (Mrs. Matkovic, step out for the pay phone and tell me I'm not telling the truth) if you have reduced the rights of employees. He looked at me and didn't come out. Of course, "Politics" today says he went out and answered, because "Politics" has to write like that. It has been called to say whether the rights of workers are reduced, or to say that I lie when I say that the rights of workers are reduced. He didn't come out for a pay phone. Dear Mrs. Komic, we did have a pension-involved insurance law under the net personal income system. Mrs. Matkovic here suggests gross personal income. The logical consequence of earlier laws is that gross personal income is proposed. It is a good system of gross personal incomes and we socialists do not oppose it. We just oppose the date when it is proposed to start accounting by gross personal income, because we know that workers with reduced rights under the new Labour and Employment Act, on the one hand and employers, with this law by Mrs Matkovic and the laws that follow in the next two points of the agenda, are in a much worse position in an economy that has no incentive, in an economy that suffers the terrible consequences not only of the embargo and bombing, but also now the lack of fresh capital flow in the economy. Earlier, the governments of the Republic of Serbia pushed a huge part of the capital into the economy and subsidized the economy to increase production. We had a decision that the Minister of Labour could use individual branches, such as the textile industry, a metal complex to forgive 50% of the donations for PIO, precisely because we understood social tensions. This proposal here doesn't understand social tensions. With this proposal, which Mrs Matkovic rightly has to push because a gross income system was introduced immediately, not on July 1, 2002, and not on 31 December 2002, she makes the employer pay the contributions at the lowest (which is now in place of 1,600, how much should be, 3,000 and some dinars) even if he does not pay his personal income. How do you think one who has to fulfill all this and has no mechanisms and this regression and that warm meal and field supplements in construction, how do you think it starts the economy and why do we stop it so much and make it poor? It's normal to say then - what about this Privatization Act? Because if there was a system of autonomous transformation at the real rate of 1 mark of 30 dinars, at this point we would have at least 400 or 500 seats in Serbia that the management of individual companies with their workers, aware that this is their factory, talk to their suppliers, talk to their product customers and at 400-500 places at the same time in Serbia, discuss capital investment. What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia come up with? The narrow throat of production, itself, is the worst possible position for the government of the Republic of Serbia. If there was an old solution to the autonomous transformation that you have abolished, Mrs. Komic, then workers would become factory owners in 60% of capital and now they would negotiate with possible foreign investors. The government of the Republic of Serbia would have what belongs to it, which is to control there from corruption, malfeasance, theft. What's the answer? The answer is - autonomous transformation has been abolished, the answer is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia sells 70% of social and state property once on the market. You know what it means when 5,000 tons of chocolate pops up, the kid's gonna say he doesn't need it after the second chocolate. The price will drop, that's what it's all about. Instead of talking in this assembly about giving a boost to the economy, not burdening it, giving the employer a chance to pay off that warm meal, if it's up to 3,000 dinars, to catch the momentum of production, six months if needed, and then give him a gross personal income, we're now making that employer pay his contributions on an increased basis and we're telling him - you don't have to pay the wages. Who's going to work after that? These are facts and facts need to be discussed. Speaking of facts, today we have advertising material from the government of the Republic of Serbia on four sides. Only three things are missing in this advertising material, which is: prices, production and standard of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5838	Mrs. Comic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5839	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't find it an insult that Mr. Ivkovic saw this as a lecture. Says the theory-- anyone who's eager to know, something he likes to see as a lecture. So it's not an insult. But Mr. Ivkovic paid tribute to what I've been saying for almost 10 minutes. It's my right to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to interpret whether we all have equal rights in the Rules of Procedure and not to interpret the Rules of Procedure all. It says in the Rules of Procedure what our rights are, what our obligations are, what our responsibility is. We have the President of the Assembly who takes care of this Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, as for the abolition of the autonomous transformation, we were happy to participate in this so as not to have speculative, third-rate money robbed by Serbian citizens, at a small door and through gray channels, entered legal flows. The money will enter Serbia, but taxed under the extra profit law that will be here at the assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5840	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5841	It seems to me from some conversations, from some presentations of MPs, that it's actually not clear enough what the basics are. I really thought that during the adoption of the previous law, it was completely clear. What does that mean that these mandatory bases, now that they're all based on the gross principle, are this big, how big are they in this bill? This means that if someone does not pay off an unskilled worker a net profit of 1,600 dinars, that worker will cost him a gross of 3,000 dinars. So, if someone has a high level of expertise, that worker will cost them 9,000 dinars. That's what these basics mean. You'll in practice be able to make sure that's true. Gross salary means net salary plus all those givings, not just a warm meal and all the other receipts, but all the taxes and contributions. And if someone as a worker gets more, then it'll be more taxed. So that's the point, that's these basics. We did not consider, as legislators, since this is in some way a package of laws, that it is our obligation to explain in more detail, given that the work has already explained it. Obviously there's a misunderstanding. This is very important to understand, because I am truly convinced that it is not just political manipulation, that it is really a misunderstanding -- and a number of MPs from all sides, and certainly employers. This is extremely important to understand. So that's actually what these basics mean, and hopefully we'll be here long enough and we'll be able to look into each other's eyes and say tomorrow if that's the case. That's one thing I wanted to say. Another thing, please, don't let us deal with manipulations. This is now really manipulation, yesterday there were a lot of words about what those basics were in the previous law -- these are nominal amounts that have been increased over time. So we don't cross when it comes to the lowest base of 470 dinars, as it was in the previous law, to three thousand. It's not a relationship net and gross. I'm sure this is about manipulation, because it's been explained several times yesterday. So, the previous law that we are now only supplementing -- the basics are, it says indeed for the first amount of 470 dinars, but it also says that according to the law, they are coordinated every three months and that they are announced by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. The latest information the Fund has announced is that net earnings, when it comes to the smallest earnings, i.e. the lowest qualifications, are 1,700 dinars. So what's now a gross 3,000, unless the worker's paid the right salary. In the end, I'd like to explain it one more time, but this is where the dilemmas come in. This law is not reformal and it is not systematic, in terms of changes in pension and disability insurance, but it is part of reform in the sense that what has changed in the tax system has also withdrawn these changes in pension. Once again, let me explain, so it's a matter of single social security. As you've arranged in the previous one, it will have to be arranged in both this and that law, which will only be discussed in the coming days, relating to health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5842	The word is made by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, and then by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5843	Dear People's MPs, Madam Minister is right. This is about a package of laws in the field of social and labour legislation and the arguments of these laws are very short and all these laws are extremely bad both in the economy and in the population. And why are the bad ones - Mrs. Minister probably couldn't propose quality changes and additions, because we adopted a particularly bad 2001 budget for the Republic of Serbia and we adopted twice an extremely bad package of tax laws. Normally, this resulted in such solutions in the package of labour and social legislation. So you didn't convince me, Madam Minister, of what you said. At least it doesn't say anywhere, only if it's your good wishes, what you said was 1,500 dinars net and still an employer pays 1,500 dinars and that's going to be, like, 3,000 gross. That's not what the law says. In the law, they write the minimum bases on which taxes and contributions will be applied, so if it is minimum for an unskilled worker of 3,000 dinars, then 3,000 dinars will be paid and 3,000 dinars will probably be net wages. At least you didn't convince me. What's interesting here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? I knew part of DOS MPs before this assembly was established. A large part of the DOS MPs I met here and responsibly claiming to the public of Serbia that the vast majority of them were either the first jobs or that they worked exclusively as budgetary users -- whether they were municipalities, whether they were funds' budgets or republican budgets. These are people, as our people would say, who have never earned, or made, money. So these are people who don't have working days in the economy. You can now convince us from the economy that and how you take care of the pensioners, that they are not damaged, etc. Do you really think that we should take an example of a private company, that the owner of this private company, or an employer, will pay all these taxes and contributions, all of this in this tax package and in this set of labour and social legislation, and that they will simply work to pay the state the obligations. Make sure he doesn't. So people are just gonna shut down companies, so they're not just gonna work for the state. To take the opportunity to notice that there really are people here who don't have working days, that there are a lot of interesting characters within the DOS parliamentary group, and to mention only these two MPs from Vojvodina. We have an MP who came here a few days ago to sneak off this pay phone about some kind of cave Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5844	Mr. Veljkovic, I give you a warning about the insults and the distance from the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5845	Now we've heard Mrs. Comic talking about some kind of "Serbian man". I realized that underneath Sava, down south, it's those cave Serbs, that's the "Serbian man", and this is worse, I guess, some other Serbia. Finally, very briefly, to tell Mr. Ceda Jovanovic about these impressive 100 days of government. Mr. Ceda Jovanovic read these impressive data here -- you know, 15 million for agriculture, etc. There are no men and no citizens of this republic who would not really be happy to see this aid really significant, to start with investment loans, to start the economy, whether it belongs or not, and this is not demagogy, position or opposition. I'm a businessman, and normally I would love to, because my company is doing extremely badly because of these economic conditions. There, among other things, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic gave one misinformation. It is true that we have become a member of the World Bank, and so on. I go to status. It is because of you and the public of Serbia, the status of the poorest countries, so it is the status of Ghana. He mentioned we got $1.7 billion, which is not true. It's that much of a debt to the World Bank or, better yet, that's how much we have to pay for the renewal of membership. We've received a promise that we'll get 450 million in the next three years, with one third going straight for the debt reprogramme. We of the world community, of the World Bank, of the Paris, of the London Club, etc. We don't have anything to waste charity on. We simply need to look for what is our, our blocked assets, interest on our blocked funds and war damage, and not now to boast here, I've held you for 10 years, not our fault, outside of the World Bank's membership for reconstruction and development, and now I've received you, as allegedly again, but give me a billion and 700 million dollars. Where's the morale? In the end, when you mention morality, Mr. Jovanovic, your morality will now be on the exam. Yesterday we heard a spokesman from the State Department who said that since the so-announced donor conference in early July there was nothing. There's nothing until you start delivering Serbs to The Hague. It is now on the exam of the morals of Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5846	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5847	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I may not have answered the floor, but in a few previous discussions, especially when Mrs Comic and my colleague Shormaz spoke, if I remember my last name correctly, I felt the need to say a few sentences about what we here, in some way, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia or of the Serbian Radical Party's tour -- to sow fear, to cause unrest among citizens and among employees, and that what we are talking in some way is unsurpassed and unwarranted. I must confess that only after Mrs. Komic's discussion, as a man who's been in business for many years, I was afraid. Which is my basic fear I'm going to tell you right now, because I think we should all be collectively scared. It is so easy to talk about the category of bankruptcy and our businesses that are not able at least at this point to fulfil the obligations under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, to meet the obligations under the future law (which I am sure we will, in the same way, adopt) on health insurance and any other obligations arising from the tax laws, so easily come into the situation to say: well, those who are not able to do so, they should go into bankruptcy. Whether or not, ma'am, please don't throw yourself at me, whether it forgets that the biggest part of our economy is in such difficulty that it really won't be able to meet these obligations. It's a cruel reality that the bill promoter has escaped from. I can agree with Mr. Chad Jovanovic, that the base of 470 dinars, when revolving, would be 1,700 dinars, but I wonder what the difference between 1,700 and 3,033 dinars is, is the lowest base. And here we are making, please, Members of Parliament, a confusion, or we who speak in this way or the minister, Mrs Matkovic, who tells us -- a worker who has not received a salary and belongs to the category of lowest earnings, will cost the employer 3,033 dinars. A worker who belongs to the highest-income category, with a PhD in science, will cost the employer 12,450 dinars. That's please, gentlemen, and worse than I thought. Let's take an example like this, if I were to pay my company a salary of 12,450 dinars to a doctor of science, to pay his net earnings of 12,450 dinars, how much I would have to pay taxes and contributions to have gross personal income. Same as before, right, 100%? If Minister Djelic assures me that in the future we will have lower obligations, or lower rates, less tax obligations on the basis of taxes and contributions, and that it will be 80%, whether this, ma'am, means that we will have to re-negotiate 12,450 dinars, or on that basis for that degree of expertise, to calculate those taxes and contributions that will be applied at that time, according to the laws that we bring here. If Minister Djelic's promise is true that it will be 80%, then we will account for 80%. Now we get to one paradox: when I can't pay off that base of 12,450 dinars, it costs me that much. When I can pay him, it costs me 10,000 dinars. Where are we now? It now raises the question of how it is possible to set such a law and that we expect it to really be possible to apply it. Furthermore, what will inevitably happen to us, gentlemen, will happen to us that we will endanger employers and workers. I don't defend the employers or the workers here, but I simply can't understand that he insists on a law that we know in advance that most of the economy won't be able to respect, nor to bear as a burden. Which one of these benefits? Sounds nice, but it's nowhere to be found. It's like she's talking about a 10-knife burger and all the contributions, and with yogurt, it costs 20 dinars, and when you ask where it is, it's nowhere, but it sounds nice. This could be called some kind of empty promises or demagogue by the legislators of this law, who will not enter into the harsh reality and realize that the economy is in such a state that we have to give it time to take a break, and then gradually increase the obligations in these companies that have not yet accounted for either taxes or contributions at all, but have in any other way paid any income and earnings to workers. Furthermore, in response to the question of our MPs and people from the economy, it must definitely be said whether the difference, Cedo Jovanovic, between 1,700 dinars and 3,033 dinars, a warm meal, transportation, regression, or the difference in taxes and contributions. (Gordana Matkovic and Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post, in the same voice: both. ) There is a difference in taxes and contributions. No, that's what this is about. That's why we keep here, from this pay phone, every day we tell you that they are multiplely increased basis for tax and contributions. You keep refusing to hear that truth, going with these arguments Ceda Jovanovic is talking about, and that sounds pretty logical when he says it. Which means, gentlemen, once we make a mistake, it's because we have a majority like this, when we talk about DOS, in parliament, we keep following in a series of mistakes. The mistake is that we've established a warm meal as a profit, it's a mistake that we've found a field supplement as a profit. The mistake is that we found the regression as a profit, etc. Now that we've put all of this in the base, then we say, you're not, gentlemen, the MPs, right when you say that the base is multiple, because otherwise you would be according to previous solutions and laws increased. Please, we need to breathe fresh blood into the economy. Why am I scared now after all this exposure? Is there a strategy here now, please, that with these laws we create such obligations for our businesses to the state, which they will not be able to reconcile. All deadlines will pass. Then we'll certainly have some sort of solution that goes in the next direction. We will support or we will take over part of the ownership of these companies, at the height of the obligation that these companies did not settle for the state. Then what are we going to do with all this state property? We'll sell it according to the tenders, which we'll build under the Privatization Act. Is there no right fear by the messengers who speak of it, and that no one in this situation, nor today, says what we will do with thousands, with hundreds of thousands of people who are threatened with all these solutions, and we explain to them that they will be better. I'm not an MP who says there's a big salary to a doctor's science of 12,450 dinars. On the contrary, I think it's a small salary. Let's let him earn that salary in his company. We make such solutions that say - if you haven't done it and done it, there's a danger of being banned from action from 30 to 90 days. Who has it, Madam Minister, used it? If I couldn't do it for 30, I can't do it for 60, I can't do it for 90, I can't do it if you forbid me to do it. Am I going to have to do some work or activity at the time of the ban to settle my obligations to a state that I have failed to reconcile? Whether it is also an exercise of activity, or a ban on activity will suspend any activity in the company. Those are open questions, you've threatened, you'll pass such a law, and we don't know how we'll implement it. Whether it's gonna be a tax authority or an officer's right to ban my activity and say yes, I forbidd your performance, but you can do business that is in the interest of the state, in order to settle the obligations you've made, and you haven't been able to pay. And that's what... It's not the time, ma'am, don't warn me, I guess the president's in charge of warning me in time. You know, I can get off this phone booth, not speak, if that bothers you because we disagree on one thing. You must understand that we are opposition MPs, but that and how we have a responsibility to the voters who chose us. Don't impute something that's not true. I have the right to be concerned, to speak for this speaker some of the things I see, and I have the right to give you appropriate suggestions, all in order to repair this law. You have no right to always, but always, remain deaf to any objections that come from the opposition, whether they are justified or unwarranted. When you adopt one of our amendments, I commit myself to the next five laws, I won't say anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5848	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic. Okay, Mr. Jovanovic, then Mrs. Matkovic. Third call, replica, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5849	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that we may not understand each other, but I really don't know how to explain to you more what gross pay is. How can I explain to you what these 3,000 dinars are? I really didn't recognize in the performance of the SPS MPs that they were going to criticise us unargumented and so on, because I saw that we didn't understand each other. Perhaps it is a problem to be absent in those preparatory stages when talking to the ministers about the laws, etc. We've organized some meetings, it's had partial successes, but I'm going to try to explain it one more time. That salary, or the base we're talking about here today, makes 3,000 dinars. These 3,000 dinars, which you're talking about, are not some of the new 3,000 dinars that the employer will pay at already 3,000 dinars, as much as the worker earns. It's all together, within those 3,000 dinars and gross wages, and regress, and a warm meal, and contributions, it's all one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5850	He has the word of Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5851	I'd like two things to comment on -- there are some countries that finance pensions budgetably. So there is no pension insurance fund, but from the budget, as some other things are financed, pensions are also financed. It's one possible model, we don't have that model. But if you forgive someone for their taxes and contributions, it literally means a complete clouding of the situation in the system. So, are you going to help some company, which for some reason is not able to pay their salaries, or taxes and contribute, that's another topic. There is indeed a need to establish that all companies have a obligation to pay taxes and contributions. Another topic - should they be helped budgetally, from some other means? But this way we're trying to clear up the situation. So everyone has to pay their dues. If there is a need for some giving by the state, it will take place through other channels and other ways, and not by reducing someone's foundations, or reducing what he needs to give the budget. It's essentially the same budget giving, and what's been so far. So now we say, no, it's no longer the principle that we, based on some criteria, say: you won't give for taxes and contributions. For taxes and contributions you have to give, and others are programs that will determine, which will say -- now from the budget, so there are some funds that are given to some companies, to recover and to be able to continue or to start again with production. So that's one topic that I think is also very important. One of the reasons why you give up these 50% reductions, etc., is that these are all discretionary rights. You know what those lists looked like, so we don't get into it, the companies that are freed in that way. We think this is a much cleaner way, that it's possible to set criteria for who to help, etc. And finally, my last attempt to explain what 3,000 dinars mean -- if you pay a worker a net salary, taxes, or a warm meal, etc. and then pay taxes and contributions, and that's some gross amount, turns out to be greater than these 3,000 dinars, then this base is not applied to a worker with the lowest qualification. If you pay that worker something extremely small, then the state says, as it was in the previous law - yeah, that worker was paid extremely little, taxes and contributions that would be paid would be very small, it's all inadequate, we calculate that worker costs you a gross 3,000 dinars, that there are taxes and contributions. Please, this is serious stuff, this is awesome. Therefore, this law can go to court and determine whether it is true or not. So that's how it is. So we're calculating. As in the previous legal text, when it was the principle of net pay, we calculated that the salary of workers with the lowest qualification of 1,600 dinars, or 1,700 per new report of the Fund, so the employer paid taxes and contributions, no matter how much he paid the worker, if it was a small sum, we now calculate that the gross salary for workers with the lowest level of 3,000 dinars, and on that basis is paid tax and contribution, which together should be everything, gross salary is 3,000 dinars then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5852	There's a word from MP Mucic Ljubomir. Well, I don't know why there's so much controversy when Mr. Ivkovic said he advocated the application of gross wages?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5853	Mr. President, since this is a very important issue, I suggest that by the start of this afternoon's debate we set up a committee to clarify this issue together with the Government and the Ministry, because this is an essential issue, which we have mentioned since the first day and the adoption of tax laws. What's the gross basis, please-- here's the question of whether it's just a basis for a reckoning, or whether it's a gross personal income for a worker to receive? There are those of us who have done these jobs for 10, 12, 15 years -- and in the old, and in the new system. Please, we don't make problems about politics and political points, these problems will be felt by all workers and employers, and by those who pay personal incomes from June 1st, they won't know how to do it. Here's why -- a gross salary of 3,000 dinars, calculated on a net salary, will cover only a warm meal and a proportional portion of the annual vacation regress, without any profit. Please, in that case, the worker won't have any pay, no profit. We'll go back to the old system of payouts only of regress and a warm meal, with the state only reaching its obligations, and how far will it come?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5854	Can you put that debate on the Finance Committee, schedule a committee, and then make a deal there?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5855	We really need to resolve this issue technically, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the fighting and social issues, since the Health Insurance Act has the same thing, related to that basis, and it is uniquely related, so all committees have to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-09-0.u5856	As we no longer have registered speakers, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in principle. I ask the MPs to vote. For 112 MPs, against 59, with abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm taking a break until 3:30. [[After a break - 15.40 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum so we can continue our work. It's my only dilemma, since we're waiting ten minutes, whether we should take a short break or that for reasons that can see a break will be by tomorrow morning. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I suggest we continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. We can't even decide to interrupt this session, so we'll continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. We can take a short break, but we've been waiting 15 minutes. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock.
